BELLEVILLE, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-16 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 9396-2025, passed 6-16-2025; and
State legislation current through 2024 Illinois Legislative Service, Pamphlet
No. 6
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
OFFICIALS
of the
CITY OF BELLEVILLE, ILLINOIS
ELECTED OFFICIALS
 
Jennifer Gain Meyer, Mayor
Shelly Schaefer, City Clerk
Sarah Biermann, City Treasurer
 
City Council
City Council
Ward One    Bryan Whitaker
           Lillian Schneider
Ward Two    Carmen Duco
           Shelly Schaefer,
Ward Three  Kent Randle
           Scott Ferguson
Ward Four   Johnnie Anthony
           Raffi Ovian
Ward Five   Edward Dintelman
           Kathy Kaiser
Ward Six    Dr. Mary G. Stiehl
           Christopher Rothweiler
Ward Seven  Phillip Elmore
           Dennis Weygandt
Ward Eight  Nora Sullivan
           Kara Osthoff
 
APPOINTED POSITIONS
APPOINTED POSITIONS
Garrett P. Hoerner  City Attorney
Lloyd M. Cueto      Assistant City Attorney
Matthew Eiskant     Police Chief
Mark Heffernan      Assistant Police Chief
Stephanie Mills     Fire Chief
Curt Lougeay        Deputy Fire Chief
Jamie Maitret       Director of Finance
Scott Saeger        City Engineer
Bill Clay           Director of Human Resources and Community Development
Scott Tyler         Director of Health, Housing and Building
Jason Poole         Director of Public Works
Brett Friedman      Director of Waste Water Treatment Plant and Sewer Lines
Erin Clifford       Executive Assistant to Mayor, Deputy Liquor Commissioner,
                     FOIA Officer
Mike Schaefer       Director of Maintenance
Don LaChance        Director of Recreation
Ty Buckner          Director of IT
                    
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 7990-2016
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A REVISED CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF
BELLEVILLE, ILLINOIS, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING
CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH
SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH REVISED CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   THE CITY OF BELLEVILLE, ST. CLAIR COUNTY, ILLINOIS (THE "CITY"), IS A DULY
ORGANIZED AND EXISTING MUNICIPALITY CREATED UNDER THE PROVISIONS OF THE LAWS OF
THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
   THE CITY OF BELLEVILLE IS NOW OPERATING UNDER THE PROVISIONS OF THE ILLINOIS
MUNICIPAL CODE, AS SUPPLEMENTED AND AMENDED AND AS A HOME RULE MUNICIPALITY
PURSUANT TO ARTICLE VII OF THE ILLINOIS CONSTITUTION OF 1970; AND IN THE
EXERCISE OF ITS HOME RULE POWERS.
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the City are
inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and substance
for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety and general
welfare of the City and for the proper conduct of its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the General Assembly of the State of Illinois empower
and authorize the City to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile any
existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published
and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, this City Council has authorized a general compilation, revision
and codification of the ordinances of the City of a general and permanent
nature and publication of such ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
City and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect on December
1, 2016.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
BELLEVILLE, ILLINOIS:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the City of Belleville, Illinois, as
revised, amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby
adopted as and shall constitute the "Revised Code of Ordinances of the City of
Belleville, Illinois."
   Section 2. Such Revised Code of Ordinances adopted in Section 1 shall
consist of the following Titles:
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter 10.      Rules of Construction; General Penalty
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter 30.      City Council
      Chapter 31.      Officials and Employees; General Administration
      Chapter 32.      Organizations
      Chapter 33.      Public Safety; Law Enforcement
      Chapter 34.      Finance and Revenue; Taxation
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter 50.      Sewers
      Chapter 51.      Industrial Pretreatment
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter 70.      General Provisions
      Chapter 71.      Pedestrians
      Chapter 72.      Condition of Vehicles; Equipment
      Chapter 73.      Traffic Rules and Driving Regulations
      Chapter 74.      Parking Regulations
      Chapter 75.      Traffic Schedules
      Chapter 76.      Parking Schedules
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter 90.      Animal Control
      Chapter 91.      Cemeteries
      Chapter 92.      Health and Sanitation
      Chapter 93.      Nuisances
      Chapter 94.      Parks and Recreation
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter 110.   General Licensing Provisions
      Chapter 111.   Amusements and Recreation; Raffles
      Chapter 112.   Emergency Services; Homeless Shelters
      Chapter 113.   Special Sales; Personal Sales
      Chapter 114.   Junk Dealers; Scavengers
      Chapter 115.   Peddlers and Solicitors
      Chapter 116.   Vehicle-Related Businesses
      Chapter 117.   Lodging Businesses
      Chapter 118.   Food and Beverage Businesses
      Chapter 119.   Healing Arts and Massage Services
      Chapter 120.   Installment Loan Businesses
      Chapter 121.   Alcoholic Beverages
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter 130.   Offenses Against Public Peace and Safety
      Chapter 131.   Offenses Against Public Morals
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter 150.   Building Code; Building Regulations
      Chapter 151.   Electrical Code
      Chapter 152.   Plumbing Code
      Chapter 153.   Gas, Oil and Solid Fuel Burner Code
      Chapter 154.   Property Maintenance Code
      Chapter 155.   Sign Code
      Chapter 156.   Mobile Home Parks
      Chapter 157.   Floodplains
      Chapter 158.   Streets and Sidewalks; Trees
      Chapter 159.   Enterprise Zones
      Chapter 160.   Special Business Districts
      Chapter 161.   Subdivisions
      Chapter 162.   Zoning
   Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Revised Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the
effective date of this ordinance except as they are included and re-ordained in
whole or in part in such Revised Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect
any offense committed or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the
effective date of this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions
of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching
territory, establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain
persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or
borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal
property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public
use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor
shall such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature
or pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Revised Code.
   Section 4. Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the City Council and the City Clerk is hereby authorized and
ordered to file a copy of such Revised Code of Ordinances in the Office of the
Clerk.
   Section 5. Such Revised Code of Ordinances shall be in full force and effect
as provided in Section 6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all
courts and places of the ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and
regulations therein contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is
properly signed, attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings
and notices thereof as required by law have been given.
   Section 6. This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after
its passage, approval and publication all as provided by law, and the Revised
Code of Ordinances adopted hereunder shall become effective on December 1,
2016.
   PASSED by the City Council of the City of Belleville, Illinois, on this 7th
day of November, 2016 on the following roll call vote:
                     AYE       NAY
         Joseph Hazel         X
         Ken Kinsella         X
         Jane Pusa         X
         Michael Buettner             X
         Kent Randle         X
         Scott Tyler         X
         Johnnie Anthony      X
         Raffi Ovian         X
         Edward Dintelman      X
         Phillip Silsby         X
         Paul Seibert         X
         Bob White         X
         Philip Elmore         X
         Trent Galetti                X
         Roger Wigginton      X
         James Musgrove      X
   APPROVED by the Mayor of the City of Belleville, Illinois this 8th day of
November, 2016.
                                 Mark W. Eckert /s/
                                 MAYOR
ATTEST:
Dallas B. Cook /s/
CITY CLERK
ORDINANCE NO. 8202-2018
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
FOR THE CITY OF BELLEVILLE, IL AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the S- 1 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Belleville, Illinois, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of the City; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Illinois Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of law of the State of
Illinois; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BELLEVILLE, ILLINOIS:
Section 1. That the S-1 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Belleville, Illinois, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2. Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City Council and the Clerk of Belleville,
Illinois, is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 3. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for
the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of
the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED by the City Council of the City of Belleville, Illinois, on this 7th
day of May, 2018 on the following roll call vote:
                           AYE       NAY
         Joe Hazel               X
         Ken Kinsella               X
         Jane Pusa               X
         Mike Buettner               X
         Kent Randle               Absent
         Scott Tyler               X
         Johnnie Anthony            X
         Raffi Ovian               X
         Ed Dintelman               X
         Michelle "Shelly" Schaefer         X
         Andy Gaa               X
         Dr. Mary G. Stiehl            X
         Dennis C. Weygandt            X
         Phil Elmore               X
         Roger Wigginton            X
         Roger W. Barfield            X
   APPROVED by the Mayor of the City of Belleville, Illinois this 8th day of
May, 2018.
                                 Mark W. Eckert /s/
                                 MAYOR
 
ATTEST:
                        
CITY CLERK
ORDINANCE NO. 8372-2019
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF BELLEVILLE, IL AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the S-1 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Belleville, Illinois, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of the City; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Illinois code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of law of the State of
Illinois; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
   BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BELLEVILLE, ILLINOIS:
Section 1. That the S-4 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Belleville, Illinois, as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2. Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City Council and the Clerk of Belleville,
Illinois, is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 3. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for
the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of
the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED by the City Council of the City of Belleville, Illinois, on this 16th
day of September, 2019 on the following roll call vote:
                                       AYE       NAY
         Joe Hazel                        X
         Ken Kinsella                     X
         Jane Pusa                        X
         Carmen Duco                     X
         Kent Randle                     X                   
         Scott Ferguson                     X
         Johnnie Anthony                  X
         Raffi Ovian                        X
         Ed Dintelman                     X
         Chris Rothveiler                  X
         Dr. Mary G. Stiehl                  X
         Dennis C. Weygandt               X
         Phil Elmore                        X
         Roger Wigginton                  X
         Roger W. Barfield                  X
   APPROVED by the Mayor of the City of Belleville, Illinois this 17th day of
September, 2019.
                                       Mark W. Eckert /s/
                                       MAYOR
ATTEST:
Jennifer Meyer /s/
CITY CLERK
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of ordinances
   
10.02   Numbering of sections
   
10.03   Section includes penalty
   
10.04   Jurisdiction
   
10.05   Rules of construction; definitions
   
10.06   Ordinances continuous
   
10.07   Revival of ordinances
   
10.08   Effect of new ordinances
   
10.09   Trivial suits
   
10.10   Repeal of general ordinances
   
10.11   Indebted to the city
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   This code of ordinances shall be known as and constitute The Revised
Ordinances of the City of Belleville, Illinois.
   (B)   Any additions or amendments to this code are incorporated in this code
so that a reference to The Revised Ordinances of the City of Belleville,
Illinois includes them.
(1960 Code, § 1.01)
§ 10.02 NUMBERING OF SECTIONS.
   (A)   Each section number of this code shall consist of two component parts
separated by a period, the figure before the period referring to the chapter
number and the figure after the period referring to the position of the section
with the chapter.
   (B)   The decimal system shall be used for all additions or amendments to
this code. When a chapter or section is to be added, it shall be given a
decimal character.
(1960 Code, § 1.02)
§ 10.03 SECTION INCLUDES PENALTY.
   Reference to any section of this code includes the penalty section relating
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided. In case of the amendment of any
section of this code containing provisions for which a penalty is provided in
another section, the penalty so provided shall relate to the amended section
whether reenacted in the amendatory ordinance or not, unless such penalty is
specifically repealed or amended therein.
(1960 Code, § 1.03)
§ 10.04 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided in this code, this code shall apply to all
acts performed within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   Provisions of this code shall also apply to acts performed outside the
corporate limits and up to the limits provided by law, where the law confers
power on the city to regulate such particular acts outside the corporate
limits.
(1960 Code, § 1.04)
§ 10.05 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   In the construction of this code, the following rules shall be
observed, unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest
intent of the City Council or repugnant to the context of the code.
       (1)   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the City
Council may be fully carried out.
      (2)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
      (3)   Words importing the singular number shall extend and be applied to
several persons or things, and words importing the plural number shall include
the singular.
      (4)   Words importing the masculine gender apply also to female and
neuter genders.
      (5)   The time within which any act provided by ordinance is to be done
shall be computed by excluding the first and including the last, unless the
last day is Sunday and then it shall be excluded.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The City of Belleville, Illinois.
      CITY COUNCIL or COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Belleville.
       CODE or THIS CODE. The Revised Ordinances of the City of Belleville,
Illinois and all amendments thereto.
      COUNTY. The County of St. Clair, Illinois.
      COURT. Includes justices of the peace and police magistrates as well as
courts of record.
      ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes.
      ILL. REV. STAT. References to the Illinois Revised Statutes mean the 1961
edition thereof or the latest edition, if there is an edition after 1961.
      ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL CODE. Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 24.
      MAGISTRATE. Includes justices of the peace and police magistrates.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation, and the word SWORN shall be construed to
include the word AFFIRMED.
      PERSON or PERSONS. As well as all words referring to or importing
persons, shall extend and be applied to bodies politic and corporate as well as
individuals.
      STATE. The State of Illinois.
      STREET. Includes highway, lane, court, avenue, road or alley or any road
or public thoroughfare laid out by public authority.
      WRITTEN AND IN WRITING. Includes printing and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but, when the written signature of any person
is required to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the
proper handwriting of such person or, in case he or she is unable to write, his
or her proper mark.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
(1960 Code, § 1.05)
§ 10.06 ORDINANCES CONTINUOUS.
   The provisions of this code, so far as they are the same as those of any
prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of such prior provisions,
and not as a new enactment.
(1960 Code, § 1.06)
§ 10.07 REVIVAL OF ORDINANCES.
   No ordinance or part of an ordinance repealed by the Council shall be deemed
to be revived by this code or by the repeal of the repealing ordinance.
(1960 Code, § 1.07)
§ 10.08 EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES.
   No new ordinance shall be construed to repeal a former ordinance, whether
such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense committed
against the former ordinance, or as to any act done, and penalty, forfeiture or
punishment incurred, or any right accrued, or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
so far as practicable, to the ordinances in force at the time of such
proceeding. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment is mitigated by any
provisions of a new ordinance, such provision may, by consent of the person
affected by applied to any judgment pronounced after the new ordinance takes
effect. This section extends to all repeals, either by express words or by
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provision
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
(1960 Code, § 1.08)
§ 10.09 TRIVIAL SUITS.
   In any suit brought under the ordinances of the city upon the complaint of a
person other than the Chief of Police or some other city officer and which suit
is dismissed as trivial or frivolous, the suit shall be at the cost of the
person making such complaint. When it appears to the satisfaction of any police
magistrate that there are good grounds for believing that a suit is trivial or
frivolous, and that the party complaining is not legally responsible for costs
that may be expended in its behalf, the justice of the peace or police
magistrate may demand security for such costs, in the event that such suit is
dismissed, or may require that the party complaining deposit in advance the
costs of issuing the necessary writs of making the arrest.
(1960 Code, § 1.13)
§ 10.10 REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All general ordinances, or parts thereof, not included within this
code are hereby repealed. Special or private ordinances and resolutions, are
not repealed or modified unless the same are repugnant to the provisions of
this code.
   (B)   The repeal of general ordinances by this section shall not affect any
suit or action or proceeding had or commenced in any court before the date this
code takes effect, nor any offense committed, nor any penalty or forfeiture
incurred, nor any suit or prosecution pending for the recovery of any fine or
penalty incurred under any ordinance so repealed.
(1960 Code, § 1.14)
§ 10.11 INDEBTED TO THE CITY.
   Any person, firm, corporation or any other entity that is indebted to the
city shall not receive a building permit, a city business license, a zoning
amendment or variance, an occupancy permit, sewer tap in or liquor license or
contract with the city until said indebtedness of the city has been paid.
(1960 Code, § 1.15) (Ord. 7086, passed 2-19-2008)
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. Unless otherwise specifically provided, any person by
any provision of this code is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon
conviction, be fined not less than $50, nor more than $1,000. Each day on which
a violation of this code occurs or continues is a separate offense.
(1960 Code, § 1.09)
   (B)   Warrant fee. The City Police Department is hereby authorized to charge
a warrant fee in the amount of $20 per arrest warrant executed.
(1960 Code, § 1.10)
   (C)   Work by prisoner. Every person committed to the county jail under the
provisions of any ordinance of the city shall work at such labor as his or her
strength will permit, not exceeding eight hours for each working day; and, for
such work, the person so employed shall be allowed, exclusive of his or her
board, $1 for each day’s work, on account of such fine and costs.
(1960 Code, § 1.11)
   (D)   Costs against prosecutor. In proceedings for the recovery of any fine
or penalty imposed by any ordinance of the city where the defendant is arrested
on warrant and is acquitted on the trial, if it appears to the court or
magistrate before whom such trial takes place, that there was no reasonable
ground for such proceeding, or that it was instituted vexatiously and
maliciously without probable cause, he or she may render judgment against the
prosecutor for the costs of such proceeding and issue execution thereon as in
other cases.
(1960 Code, § 1.12)
(Ord. 2687, passed - -; Ord. 5759, passed 7-21-1997; Ord. 6300, passed 5-21-
2001)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES; GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   PUBLIC SAFETY; LAW ENFORCEMENT
      
34.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Rules of Council
   
30.02   Wards established
   
30.03   Insurance coverage
Composition and Meetings
   
30.15   Council
   
30.16   Compensation
   
30.17   Regular meetings
   
30.18   Special meetings
   
30.19   Standing committees
   
30.20   Executive sessions
   
30.21   Closed sessions
   
30.22   Public participation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 RULES OF COUNCIL.
   The following rules of order and procedure shall govern the deliberations
and meetings of the City Council.
   (A)   Agenda.
      (1)   The following agenda shall be followed by the City Council in
conducting its business during its meetings:
         (a)   Call to order by Mayor;
         (b)   Roll call Aldermen;
         (c)   Roll call department heads;
         (d)   Pledge of Allegiance;
         (e)   Public participation.
            1.   Members of the public may address the City Council in
accordance with § 2.06(g) of the state’s Open Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/2.06
(g)).
            2.   Public comments are limited to three minutes per speaker.
            3.   The subject of public comments shall be reasonably related to
matter(s) identified on the meeting agenda and/or other city business.
            4.   Repetitive public comments should be avoided, to the extent
practical, through adoption of prior public comment (e.g., agreeing with a
prior speaker).
            5.   The following conduct is prohibited during public
participation:
               a.   Acting or appearing in a lewd or disgraceful manner;
               b.   Using disparaging, obscene or insulting language;
               c.   Personal attacks impugning character and/or integrity;
               d.   Intimidation; and
               e.   Disorderly conduct as defined in §
130.02 of this code of ordinances.
            6.   Any speaker who engages in such prohibited conduct during
public participation shall be called to order by the Chair or ruling by the
Chair if a point of order is made by a sitting Alderman.
         (f)   Presentations, recognitions and appointments;
         (g)   Reading of the minutes of past meeting or meetings, corrections
and approval of the same, unless dispensed with by the Council;
         (h)   Claims, payroll and disbursements approved by Claims Committee;
         (i)   Reports;
         (j)   Oral reports from standing committees, special committees and
any other oral reports from the elected officials or staff;
         (k)   Communications from Mayor, Clerk or other city officials;
         (l)   Petitions;
         (m)   Resolutions;
         (n)   Ordinances;
         (o)   Unfinished business;
         (p)   Miscellaneous and new business; and
         (q)   Adjournment.
      (2)   All questions relating to the priority of business shall be decided
by the Chair (Mayor) without debate, subject to appeal.
   (B)   Duties of the presiding officer.
      (1)   The presiding officer shall preserve order and decorum and may
speak to points of order in preference to other members, and shall decide all
questions of order subject to appeal.
      (2)   In case of any disturbance or disorderly conduct, the presiding
officer shall have the power to require the chamber be cleared.
   (C)   Duties of members.
      (1)   While the presiding officer is putting the question, no member
shall walk across or out of the Council chamber.
      (2)   Every member, previous to his or her speaking, making a motion or
seconding the same, shall raise his or her hand and shall not proceed with his
or her remarks until recognized and named by the Chair. He or she shall confine
himself or herself to the question under debate avoiding personalities and
refraining from impugning the motives of any other member’s argument or vote.
      (3)   When two or more members raise their hands at the same time, the
presiding officer shall name the member who is first to speak.
   (D)   Visitors. No person other than a member of the Council shall address
that body, except with the consent of the majority of the members present.
   (E)   Presentation of new business. When a member wishes to present a
communication, petition, order, resolution, ordinance or other original matter,
he or she shall send it to the desk of the Clerk who shall read such matter
when reached in its proper order.
   (F)   Debate.
      (1)   No member shall speak more than once on the same question, except
by unanimous consent, and then not until every other member desiring to speak
shall have had an opportunity to do so; provided, however, that, the proponent
of the matter under consideration or the Chairperson of the committee whose
report is under consideration, as the case may be, shall have the right to open
and close debate. No member shall speak longer than ten minutes at any one
time, except by consent of the Council; and in closing debate on any question,
as above provided, the speaker shall be limited to five minutes, except by
special consent of the Council.
      (2)   While a member is speaking, no member shall hold any private
discussion, nor pass between the speaker and the Chair.
   (G)   Call of member to order. A member when called to order by the Chair,
shall thereupon discontinue speaking and take his or her seat and the order of
ruling of the Chair shall be binding and conclusive, subject only to the right
of appeal.
   (H)   Appeals from decisions of the Chair. Any member may appeal to the
Council from a ruling of the Chair and, if the appeal is seconded, the member
making the appeal may briefly state his or her reason for the same, and the
Chair may briefly explain his or her ruling; but there shall be no debate on
the appeal and no other member shall participate in the discussion. The Chair
shall then put the question, “Shall the decision of the Chair be sustained?” If
a majority of the members present vote “No”, the decision of the Chair shall be
overruled; otherwise, it shall be sustained.
   (I)   Question of personal privilege. The right of a member to address the
Council on a question of personal privilege shall be limited to cases in which
his or her integrity, character or motives are assailed, questioned or
impugned.
   (J)   Voting. Every member who shall be present when a question is stated
from the Chair shall vote thereon, unless excused by the Council, or unless he
or she is personally interested in the question, in which case he or she shall
not vote.
   (K)   Special order of business. Any matter before the Council may be set
down as a special order of business at a time certain, if two-thirds of the
Aldermen present vote in the affirmative, but not otherwise.
   (L)   Seconding of motions required; written motions. No motion shall be put
or debated in the Council or in committee unless it is seconded. When a motion
is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding officer before debate, and
every motion in the Council, except motions of procedure, shall be reduced to
writing, if required by a member, and the proposer of the motion shall be
entitled to the floor.
   (M)   Withdrawal of motions. After a motion or resolution is stated by the
presiding officer, it shall be deemed to be in possession of the Council, but
it may be withdrawn at any time before decision, by consent of the Council.
   (N)   Division of questions. If any question under consideration contains
several distinct propositions, the Council by a majority vote of the members
present may divide such question.
   (O)   Record of motions. In all cases where a resolution or motion is
entered in the journal, the name of the member moving the same shall be entered
also.
   (P)   Taking and entering the votes; explanations of votes not permitted.
      (1)   If any member requires it, the “yeas” and “nays” upon any question
shall be taken and entered in the journal; but the “yeas” and “nays” shall not
be taken unless called for prior to any vote on the question.
      (2)   When the Clerk has commenced to call the roll of the Council for
the taking of a vote by “yeas” and “nays”, all debate on the question before
the Council shall be deemed concluded, and during the taking of the vote no
member shall be permitted to explain his or her vote, but shall respond to the
calling of his or her name by the Clerk by answering “yea” or “nay”, as the
case may be.
   (Q)   Announcement and changes of votes. The result of all votes by yeas and
nays shall not be announced by the Clerk, but shall be handed by him or her to
the Chairperson for announcement, and no vote shall be changed after the tally
list has passed from the hands of the Clerk.
   (R)   Precedence of motions.
      (1)   When a question is under debate, the following motions shall be in
order and shall have precedence over each other in order, as listed:
         (a)   To adjourn to a day certain;
         (b)   To adjourn;
         (c)   To take a recess;
         (d)   To lay on the table;
         (e)   The previous question;
         (f)   To refer;
         (g)   To amend;
         (h)   To defer or postpone to a time certain;
         (i)   To defer or postpone (without reference to time); and
         (j)    To defer or postpone indefinitely.
      (2)   Divisions (R)(1)(b), (R)(1)(d) and (R)(1)(e) above are to be
decided without debate.
   (S)   Motions to adjourn.
      (1)   A motion to adjourn the Council shall always be in order, except:
         (a)   When a member is in possession of the floor;
         (b)   While the yeas and nays are being called;
         (c)   When the members are voting;
         (d)   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; or
         (e)   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be
taken.
      (2)   A motion simply to adjourn shall no be subject to amendment or
debate, but a motion to adjourn to a time certain shall be.
      (3)   The Council may at any time adjourn over one or more regular
meetings, on a vote of a majority of all the Aldermen authorized by law to be
elected.
   (T)   Previous question. When the previous question is moved on the main
question, and seconded, it shall be put in this form: “Shall the main question
now be put?” If such motion be carried, all further amendment and all further
motions and debate shall be excluded, and the question put without delay, upon
the pending amendments in proper order, and then upon the main question.
   (U)   Motions to lay on the table and to take from the table.
      (1)   A motion simply to lay a question on the table shall not be
debatable; but a motion to lay on the table and publish, or with any other
condition, shall be subject to amendment and debate.
      (2)   A motion to take any motion or other proposition from the table may
be proposed at the same meeting at which such motion or proposition was laid
upon the table; provided, two-thirds of the Aldermen vote therefor.
      (3)   A motion to lay any particular motion or proposition on the table
shall apply to that motion or proposition only. An amendment to the main
question or other pending question may be laid on the table and neither the
main question nor such other pending question shall be affected thereby.
   (V)   Indefinite postponement; motion to defer or postpone without any
reference to time.
      (1)   When consideration of a motion or other proposition is postponed
indefinitely, it shall not be again taken up at the same meeting.
      (2)   A motion to postpone indefinitely shall not open the main question
to debate.
      (3)   A motion to defer or postpone, without any reference to time, shall
not be construed as a motion to postpone indefinitely, but shall be considered
to be of the same general nature, and to possess the same general attributes so
far as applicable under these rules, as a motion to postpone indefinitely or to
a time certain.
   (W)   Motion to refer. A motion to refer to a standing committee shall take
precedence over a similar motion to refer to a special committee.
   (X)   Motion to amend.
      (1)   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but one to amend
an amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
      (2)   An amendment modifying the intention of a motion shall be in order;
but an amendment relating to a different subject, shall not be in order.
      (3)   On an amendment to “Strike out and insert”, the paragraph to be
amended shall first be read as it stands, then the words proposed to be
stricken out, then those to be inserted, and finally the paragraph as it will
stand if so amended shall be read.
      (4)   An amendment to the main question or other pending question may be
referred to a committee and neither the main question nor such other pending
question shall be affected thereby.
   (Y)   Filling of blanks. When a blank is to be filled, and different sums or
times proposed, the question shall be taken first on the least sum or the
longest time.
   (Z)   Motion to substitute. A substitute for any original proposition under
debate or for any pending amendment to such proposition may be entertained
notwithstanding that at such time further amendment is admissible; and, if
accepted by the Council by a vote, shall entirely supersede such original
proposition or amendment, as the case may be, and cut off all amendments
appertaining thereto.
   (AA)   Reconsideration.
      (1)   A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same
meeting, or at the first regular meeting held thereafter. A motion for
reconsideration, having been once made and decided in the negative, shall not
be renewed, nor shall a motion to reconsider be reconsidered.
      (2)   A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by members who
voted on the prevailing side of the question to be reconsidered, unless
otherwise provided by law; provided, however, that, where a motion has received
a majority vote in the affirmative, but is declared lost solely on the ground
that a greater number of affirmative votes is required by statute for the
passage or adoption of such motion, then in such case a motion to reconsider
may be made and seconded only by those who voted in the affirmative on such
question to be reconsidered.
   (BB)   Adoption of Robert’s “Rules of Order Revised”. The rules of
parliamentary practice comprised in the latest published edition of Robert’s
“Rules of Order Revised” shall govern the Council in all cases to which they
are applicable and in which they are not inconsistent with the special rules of
the Council.
   (CC)   Temporary suspension of rules; amendment of rules. These rules may be
temporarily suspended by a vote of two-thirds of all the Aldermen entitled by
law to be elected, and shall not be repealed, altered or amended, unless by
concurrence of two-thirds of all the Aldermen entitled by law to be elected.
   (DD)   Censure of members; expulsion of members. Any member acting or
appearing in a lewd or disgraceful manner, or who uses opprobrious, obscene or
insulting language to or about any member of the Council, or who does not obey
the order of the Chair, shall be, on motion, censured by a majority vote of the
members present or expelled by a two-thirds vote of all members elected.
(1960 Code, § 2-2-1) (Ord. 5169, passed 11-15-1993; Ord. 7750, passed 2-18-
2014; Ord. 8011-2017, passed 1-17-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-15
§ 30.02 WARDS ESTABLISHED.
   The city shall be, and is hereby divided into eight wards, which shall be
known and designated as follows: First Ward, Second Ward, Third Ward, Fourth
Ward, Fifth Ward, Sixth Ward, Seventh Ward and Eighth Ward.
   (A)   First Ward. The First Ward shall comprise all that territory within
the limits of this city embraced within the following description: commencing
at the intersection of the centerline of State Route 159 (Illinois Street) and
“J” Street; thence south along the centerline of State Route 159 (Illinois
Street) to the intersection of the centerline of Douglas Avenue; thence
easterly-southeasterly along the centerline of Douglas Avenue to the
intersection of the centerline of “A” Street; thence northeast along the
centerline of “A” Street to a point 751 feet southwest of the centerline of
West Boulevard; thence following the easterly-northeasterly city limits line of
the city as it meanders to the street centerline of Lebanon Avenue; thence
following the northerly city limits line to the point of beginning.
   (B)   Second Ward. The Second Ward shall comprise all that territory within
the limits of this city embraced within the following description: commencing
at the intersection of the centerline of State Route 159 (Illinois Street) and
“J” Street; thence west along the northerly city limits line of the City of
Belleville, Illinois, to its intersection with the street centerline of North
17th Street; thence north along the centerline of North 17th Street to its
intersection with North 28th Street; thence west along the centerline of North
28th Street to its intersection with the centerline of West Main Street; thence
south along the centerline of West Main Street to its intersection with the
centerline of South 29th Street; thence west along the centerline of South 29th
Street to a point 300 feet west of its intersection with the centerline of Otto
Street; thence following the city limits line southeasterly and southwesterly
to the endpoint of the centerline of South 23rd Street; thence southwesterly to
the intersection of the centerline of South 2st Street and the centerline of
Madison Street; thence southwesterly along South 21st Street to its endpoint;
thence southwesterly along the westerly edge of “Roosevelt Heights”
Subdivision; thence east along the city limits line to its intersection with
South 16th Street; thence along the centerline of South 16th Street to its
intersection with the centerline of West Main Street; thence east along the
centerline of West Main Street as it turns into East Main Street, to its
intersection with the centerline of Douglas Avenue; thence northwest along the
centerline of Douglas Avenue its intersection with the centerline of State
Route 159 (Illinois Street); thence north along the centerline of State Route
159 (Illinois Street) to the point of beginning.
   (C)   Third Ward. The Third Ward shall comprise all that territory within
the limits of this city embraced within the following description: commencing
at the intersection of the centerline of North 17th Street and the centerline
of North 28th Street; thence north along the easterly city limits line of the
City of Belleville, to its intersection with North Belt West; thence east along
the northerly right-of-way line of North Belt East; thence following the
northeasterly city limits line to its intersection with the centerline of Royal
Heights Road; thence south along the centerline of Royal Heights Road to its
intersection with the centerline of North Belt West; thence west along the
centerline of North Belt West to its intersection with the centerline of West
Main Street; thence east along the centerline of West Main Street to its
intersection with the centerline of South 35th Street; thence west along the
centerline of South 35th Street to a point 436 feet west of the terminus of the
centerline of South 35th Street; thence south along the city limits line to its
intersection with the centerline of South 29th Street; thence east along the
centerline of South 29th Street to its intersection with the centerline of West
Main Street; thence west along the centerline of West Main Street to its
intersection with the centerline of North 28th Street; thence east along the
centerline of North 28th Street to the point of beginning.
   (D)   Fourth Ward. The Fourth Ward shall comprise all that territory within
the limits of this city embraced within the following description: commencing
at the intersection of the centerline of North Belt West and the centerline of
West Main Street; thence easterly along the centerline of North Belt West to
its intersection with the centerline of Royal Heights Road; thence northerly
along the centerline of Royal Heights Road to the northerly city limits line of
the City of Belleville, Illinois; thence in a general northwest direction along
the city limits line in its various courses and meanders to the centerline of
West Main Street; thence southeast along the centerline of West Main Street to
the centerline of North Belt West, being the point of beginning.
   (E)   Fifth Ward. The Fifth Ward shall comprise all that territory within
the limits of this city embraced within the following description: commencing
at the intersection of the centerline of West Main Street at its intersection
with the centerline of South 16th Street; thence southwesterly along 16th
Street to its intersection with the southwesterly city limits line of the City
of Belleville; thence in a general southeast direction along the city limits
line in its various courses and meanders to its easternmost intersection with
the centerline line of State Route 15; thence northwest along the centerline of
State Route 15 to its intersection with the centerline of State Route 159
(Illinois Street); thence north along the centerline of North Illinois Street
to its intersection with the centerline of West Main Street; thence west along
the centerline of West Main Street to the point of beginning.
   (F)   Sixth Ward. The Sixth Ward shall comprise all that territory within
the limits of this city embraced within the following description: commencing
at the intersection of the centerline of Mascoutah Avenue and the centerline of
East Main Street; thence west along the centerline of East Main Street to its
intersection with the centerline of State Route 159 (Illinois Street); thence
south along the centerline of State Route 159 (Illinois Street) to its
intersection with the centerline of State Route 15; thence southeasterly along
Route 15 to the city limits line of the City of Belleville, Illinois; thence in
a general southeast direction along the city limits line in its various courses
and meanders to the centerline of State Route 177 (Mascoutah Avenue); thence
west along the centerline of State Route 177 (Mascoutah Avenue to its
intersection with State Route 158 (South Belt East); thence continuing
northwest along the centerline of Mascoutah Avenue to its intersection with
East Main Street, being the point of beginning.
   (G)   Seventh Ward. The Seventh Ward shall comprise all that territory
within the limits of this city embraced within the following description:
commencing at the intersection of the centerline of East Main Street and its
intersection with the centerline of Mascoutah Avenue; thence southeasterly
along Mascoutah Avenue to its intersection with State Route 158 (South Belt
East); thence continuing along the centerline of State Route 177 to the
easterly city limits line of the City of Belleville, Illinois; thence in a
general north-northwesterly direction along the city limits line in its various
courses and meanders to its intersection with the centerline of East “A”
Street; thence southwesterly along the centerline of East “A” Street to its
intersection with the centerline of Douglas Avenue; thence southeasterly along
the centerline of Douglas Avenue to its intersection with the centerline of
East Main Street; thence along the centerline of East Main Street to the
intersection with Mascoutah Avenue, being the point of beginning.
   (H)   Eighth Ward. The Eighth Ward shall comprise all that territory within
the limits of this city embraced within the following description: commencing
at the intersection of the centerline of South 35th Street with the centerline
of West Main Street; thence northwesterly along the centerline of West Main
Street to the western edge of the city limits line of the City of Belleville,
Illinois; thence in a generally southerly-southeasterly direction along the
city limits line in its various courses and meanders to its intersection with
the westerly edge of “Roosevelt Heights” subdivision; thence northeasterly to
the end point of the centerline of South 21st Street; thence northeasterly
along the centerline of South 21st Street to its intersection with the
centerline of Madison Avenue; thence northerly to the endpoint of the
centerline of South 23rd Street; thence in a general northerly-northwesterly
direction along the city limits line in its various courses and meanders to its
interaction with a point 436 feet west of the terminus of the centerline of
South 35th Street; thence east along the centerline of South 35th Street to a
its intersection with the centerline of West Main Street, being the point of
beginning.
(1960 Code, § 2-3-1) (Ord. 4801, passed 1-7-1991; Ord. 7594-2012, passed 4-30-
2012)
§ 30.03 INSURANCE COVERAGE.
   (A)   Continuation of availability and cost. Any elected official of the
city who has served one full term and is not re-elected or chooses to retire
from his or her elected office, or a spouse of a deceased elected official,
shall be allowed to continue to participate in the city’s health insurance
indefinitely, so long as they pay their own expenses for premiums and any other
cost that may be associated with said coverage.
   (B)   Additional insurance. The elected official or spouse of a deceased
elected official of the city shall additionally be allowed to purchase
insurance coverage through the city so long as they pay their own expense for
premiums and any other cost that may be associated with said coverage.
(1960 Code, § 2-4-1) (Ord. 5727, passed 4-21-1997)
COMPOSITION AND MEETINGS
§ 30.15 COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall consist of the Mayor and 16 Aldermen. Two Aldermen
are to be elected from each ward. In case any vacancy shall occur in the Office
of Alderman by death, resignation, removal or any other cause, such vacancy
shall be filled in accordance with statutes in effect at that time.
(1960 Code, § 2-1-1) (Ord. 6451, passed 8-19-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5 and 5/3.1-20-10
§ 30.16 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Aldermen shall receive the compensation for attending Council meetings
as set out by the Council from time to time.
   (B)   All Aldermen are allowed to miss two meetings each year. An Alderman
may miss more than two meetings per year and shall receive payment at a set
rate if such Alderman can show due cause for such additional absence such as
illness of the Alderman, serious illness of any member of the Alderman’s
immediate family, a death in the Alderman’s immediate family or other like
causes. The compensation shall take effect on 5-1-2009 for those alderman
elected at the consolidated election in April 2009. Those Alderman elected at
the consolidated election in April 2011 shall not receive pay raise on the
schedule until 5-1-2011. Any absence in excess of those permitted herein shall
result in the reduction in pay at the rate of one-twenty-fourth of the annual
salary per meeting missed.
(1960 Code, § 2-1-2) (Ord. 7055, passed 11-19-2007)
§ 30.17 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   The regular stated meetings of the City Council shall be held in the
Council chambers in the City Hall building, on the first and third Mondays in
each month, at 7:00 p.m. In addition to the aforesaid regular stated meetings,
the City Council shall meet on two additional dates for the express purpose of
discussing and adopting the annual city budget and tax levy ordinances.
   (B)   The just stated two meetings shall be called according to law. When
any of the aforesaid meeting dates fall upon a legal holiday, the meeting shall
be held on the Tuesday following at the same hour and place. Whenever it is
deemed necessary by a majority vote of the Council, the hour of a regularly
scheduled meeting may be changed to a different hour on the same date.
Adjourned meetings may be held at such times as may be determined by the City
Council.
   (C)   The City Council may also be convened on two additional dates, for
special meetings, with no additional compensation for Aldermen, upon the giving
of proper notice in accordance to §
30.18 of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 2-1-3) (Ord. 5207, passed 1-17-1994)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-25
§ 30.18 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the City Council may be called by the Mayor or any three
Aldermen, by giving at least 24 hours’ notice thereof, by delivering to them
personally, or by leaving written or printed notices of the time of such
meeting at the residences of the Aldermen.
(1960 Code, § 2-1-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-25 and 5 ILCS 120/2.02 and 120/2.03
§ 30.19 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The following standing committees shall be appointed by the Mayor,
subject to the advice and consent of the City Council, at the first meeting of
the City Council occurring after its annual election for Aldermen, in each
year, or as soon thereafter as may be convenient:
      (1)   Finance;
      (2)   Police and Fire;
      (3)   Master Sewer;
      (4)   Streets and Grades;
      (5)   Traffic and Parking;
      (6)   Public Health and Housing;
      (7)   Personnel;
      (8)   Economic Development and Annexation; and
      (9)   Ordinance and Legal Review.
   (B)   The above standing committees shall consist of the following members:
Economic Development and Annexation Committee, Finance, Police and Fire, Master
Sewer, Streets and Grades and Ordinance and Legal Review: eight Aldermen; all
other standing committees shall consist of five Aldermen, except the Public
Health and Housing Committee. The Public Health and Housing Committee shall
consist of five Aldermen and one representative from the Belleville Board of
Realtors. The Finance, Economic Development and Annexation Committee, Police
and Fire, Master Sewer, Streets and Grades, Public Health and Housing, and
Ordinance and Legal Review committees shall consist of one Alderman from each
ward.
   (C)   The Mayor shall be ex-officio member of all committees.
   (D)   Notices to the members of the different committees of the Council, and
notices to all other persons, whose attendance may be required before any such
committee when so directed by the Chairperson thereof, shall be served by the
Chief of Police.
(1960 Code, § 2-1-5) (Ord. 5420, passed 4-24-1995; Ord. 6987, passed 4-30-2007;
Ord. 8070-2017, passed 7-17-2017; Ord. 8950-2021, passed 5-17-2021; Ord. 9058-
2022, passed 6-21-2022; Ord. 9261-2024, passed 3-19-2024; Ord. 9331-2024,
passed 11-4-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 5 ILCS 120/1 and 120/2.06
§ 30.20 EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   (A)   Regular and special meetings of the Council.
      (1)   Executive sessions of the City Council may be held upon a motion
being made on the floor at a regular or a special Council meeting requesting an
executive session or upon a motion made at the caucus of the City Council. The
motion shall state one or more of the following purposes for which this session
is being called:
         (a)   Collective negotiating matters between the city and its
employees or representatives;
         (b)   Acquisition of real property;
         (c)   Pending court proceedings against or on behalf of the city; and
         (d)   To consider information regarding appointment, employment or
dismissal of an employee or officer or to hear testimony on a complaint lodged
against the employee or officer of the city to determine its validity, but no
final action may be taken at the closed session. If the motion to go into an
executive session is made at the caucus of the City Council, and the executive
session is held prior to the regular City Council meeting, it shall be the duty
of the Mayor to announce at the regular City Council meeting that an executive
session was held prior to the Council meeting for one of the purposes set forth
in this division (A)(1).
      (2)   Minutes shall be taken during all executive sessions and the
minutes shall be kept by the City Clerk in a special executive session minute
book. Said minutes shall not be open to the general public or press for
inspection thereof.
   (B)   Committee meetings.
      (1)   Meetings of committees of the City Council shall be open to the
public.
      (2)   An executive session of any of said committees may be called by a
motion of any one of the committee members at the committee meeting. The motion
for the executive session shall state one or more of the following purposes for
which the executive session is being called:
         (a)   Collective negotiating matters between the city and its
employees or representatives;
         (b)   Acquisition of real property;
         (c)   Pending court proceedings against or on behalf of the city; and
         (d)   To consider information regarding appointment, employment or
dismissal of an employee or officer or to hear testimony on a complaint lodged
against the employee or officer of the city to determine its validity, but no
final action may be taken at the closed session.
      (3)   The Chairperson of each committee or committee members shall give a
report summarizing the business conducted at a regular or special meeting of
this committee to the Aldermen monthly.
   (C)   Notice.
      (1)   The City Council and any committees thereof shall give public
notice of the schedule of its regular meetings at the beginning of each fiscal
year and shall state the regular dates, times and places of such meetings.
Public notice of any special meeting or of any rescheduled regular meeting or
any reconvened meeting shall be given at least 24 hours before such meeting.
However, this requirement of public notice of reconvened meetings does not
apply to any case where the meeting is to be reconvened within 24 hours, nor to
any case where announcement of the time and place of the reconvened meeting was
made at the original meeting and there is no change in the agenda. (Note: state
statutes, in 65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-25, require a 48-hour meeting notice.)
      (2)   Public notice shall be given by posting a copy of the notice in the
City Hall. Copies of the notice of regular meetings of the City Council and
committees thereof and of the notice of any special, rescheduled or reconvened
meeting shall be given to any local newspaper of general circulation or any
local radio or television station that has filed an annual request for such
notice. Any such news media shall also be given the same notice of all special,
rescheduled or reconvened meetings in the same manner as is given members of
the body; provided, such news media has given the public body an address within
the territorial jurisdiction of the body at which such notice may be given.
      (3)   If a change is made in regular meeting dates, at least ten days’
notice of such change shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city. Notice of such change of regular meetings shall
also be posted in the City Hall. Notice of such change of regular meetings
shall also be supplied to those news media who have filed an annual request as
provided for above.
      (4)   Notice requirements of these rules are in addition to and not in
substitution of any other notice provided by law. Failure of any news media
receiving notice provided for by these rules shall not invalidate any meeting
provided notice was, in fact, given in accordance with this act.
(1960 Code, § 2-1-6) (Ord. 3225, passed 5-20-1974; Ord. 3279, passed 12-31-
1974)
§ 30.21 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   Recording closed sessions. The city shall keep a verbatim record of
all closed or executive session meetings of the corporate authorities of the
city or any subsidiary “public body”, as defined by the state’s Open Meetings
Act, 5 ILCS 120/1. The verbatim record shall be in the form of an audio or
video recording as determined by the corporate authorities.
   (B)   Responsibility for recording closed sessions and maintaining
recordings. The City Clerk or his or her designee shall be responsible for
arranging for the recording of such closed or executive sessions. In the
absence of the City Clerk or his or her designee, the meeting Chair will
arrange for the audio or video recording of the closed or executive session of
the City Council. Each subsidiary public body of the city shall designate an
individual who will be responsible for the recording of any and all closed or
executive sessions of the subsidiary body and for providing the City Clerk with
a copy of such recording. The City Clerk, or his or her designee, shall
securely maintain the verbatim recordings of all closed sessions of the
corporate authorities of the city and all subsidiary public bodies of the city.
   (C)   Closed session minutes. In addition to the recordings of the closed
and executive session as addressed in this section, the city will keep minutes
of all closed meetings in accordance with the requirements of the Open Meetings
Act, 5 ILCS 120/1.
   (D)   Procedure for recording. At the beginning of each closed session,
those present shall identify themselves by voice for the audio recording. If
the meeting is videotaped, those present shall individually appear on camera
and identify themselves by voice at the beginning of the closed session. The
meeting Chair shall also announce the times the closed session commences and
ends at the appropriate points on the recording.
   (E)   Back-up equipment/procedure for equipment malfunction. The city will
maintain sufficient tapes, batteries and equipment for the city to comply with
this section. The City Clerk or his or her designee will periodically check the
equipment to confirm that it is functioning. In the event that anyone present
at a closed session determines that the equipment is not functioning properly,
the closed session will be temporarily suspended to attempt to correct any
malfunction. In the event that an equipment malfunction cannot be corrected
immediately, the closed session will terminate until such time as the closed
session may proceed with a functioning recording device.
   (F)   Procedure for review of closed session minutes and recordings. At one
meeting at least every six months, the agenda shall include the item: “Review
of the minutes and recordings of all closed sessions that have not yet been
released for public review, and determination of which minutes, if any, may be
released.” Minutes shall be reviewed in closed session and shall not be
released unless the corporate authorities of the city find that it is no longer
necessary to protect the public interest or the privacy of an individual by
keeping them confidential. As to any minutes not released, the corporate
authorities shall find that the “need for confidentiality still exists” as to
those minutes. Minutes of closed sessions shall be kept indefinitely.
Recordings shall be reviewed in a manner appropriate to the purpose for which
they were intended.
   (G)   Maintenance and public release of recordings and access of tapes. The
audio or video tape recordings of closed sessions shall be maintained for 18
months after the closed session and shall not be released to the public unless
such release is required by a court order or specifically authorized for
release by a vote of the City Council. Members of the corporate authorities may
listen to the closed session recordings in the presence of the City Clerk or
his or her designee. Copies of such tapes will not be made or provided to
anyone unless specifically authorized by vote of the City Council.
   (H)   Procedure for destruction of recordings. The City Clerk or his or her
designee is hereby authorized to destroy the audio or video recordings of those
closed sessions for which:
      (1)   The corporate authorities of the city have approved the minutes of
the closed sessions as to accurate content, regardless of whether the minutes
have been released for public review;
      (2)   More than 18 months have elapsed since the date of the closed
session;
      (3)   There is no court order requiring the preservation of such
recording; and
      (4)   The corporate authorities of the city have not passed a motion
requiring the preservation of the verbatim recording of that meeting.
(1960 Code, § 2-1-7) (Ord. 6788, passed 11-7-2005)
§ 30.22 PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.
   (A)   Members of the public may address public officials at meetings of the
City Council, its committees and other subsidiary bodies in accordance with §
2.06(g) of the state’s Open Meetings Act (5 ILCS 120/2.06(g)).
   (B)   Public comments are limited to three minutes per speaker.
   (C)   The subject of public comments shall be reasonably related to matter
(s) identified on the meeting agenda and/or other city business.
   (D)   Repetitive public comments should be avoided, to the extent practical,
through adoption of prior public comment (e.g., agreeing with a prior speaker).
   (E)   The following conduct is prohibited during public participation:
      (1)   Acting or appearing in a lewd or disgraceful manner;
      (2)   Using disparaging, obscene or insulting language;
      (3)   Personal attacks impugning character and/or integrity;
      (4)   Intimidation; and
      (5)   Disorderly conduct as defined in §
130.02 of this chapter.
   (F)   Any speaker who engages in such prohibited conduct during public
participation shall be called to order by the Chair or ruling by the Chair if a
point of order is made by a sitting member of that body.
(Ord. 7750, passed 2-18-2014)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES; GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Corporate seal
   
31.002   City office hours
   
31.003   Work week
   
31.004   Fiscal year and municipal year
   
31.005   Vacations
   
31.006   Holidays
   
31.007   Improvements
   
31.008   Town of Belleville
   
31.009   Appointment of employees
   
31.010   Sick leave
   
31.011   Funeral leave
   
31.012   Outside employment, police officers and firefighters
   
31.013   Conflict of interest
   
31.014   Power to deduct wages for debts
   
31.015   State Officials and Employees Ethics Act
   
31.016   Freedom of Information Act
   
31.017   Policy prohibiting sexual harassment
   
31.018   Travel expenses
Officers and Subordinates
   
31.030   Elections
   
31.031   City officers
   
31.032   Bonds of city officers
   
31.033   City offices consolidated
   
31.034   Refusal to perform duties
   
31.035   Deputy Clerk
   
31.036   Personnel Manager and Affirmative Action Officer
   
31.037   (Reserved)
   
31.038   Custodian of City Hall
   
31.039   Salaries and insurance
Mayor
   
31.055   Appointment of officers
   
31.056   Notice to City Council of appointment
   
31.057   Temporary appointment
   
31.058   Rejection of appointment
   
31.059   Removal of officers
   
31.060   Signature
   
31.061   General duties
   
31.062   Overtime and compensatory time review
City Clerk
   
31.075   Council minutes
   
31.076   Records
   
31.077   Papers
   
31.078   Licenses
   
31.079   (Reserved)
   
31.080   License plates
   
31.081   Successor
   
31.082   Payments
   
31.083   Warrant register
   
31.084   Ex-official Clerk of town
   
31.085   Other duties
City Treasurer
   
31.100   Money; warrants
   
31.101   Register
   
31.102   Funds
   
31.103   Delinquent officers
   
31.104   Bookkeeping
   
31.105   Monthly statements
   
31.106   Annual account
   
31.107   Ex-officio Collector of Special Taxes and Special Assessments
   
31.108   Funds separate
   
31.109   Duties
   
31.110   Receipts; discounts
   
31.111   Adjustment of accounts
   
31.112   Municipal bonds and debt payments; responsibility for assuring timely
disbursements
City Attorney
   
31.125   Duties
   
31.126   Documents drafted
   
31.127   Suits
   
31.128   Report
   
31.129   Successor
   
31.130   Qualifications of City Attorney
   
31.131   Assistant City Attorney
   
31.132   Fees for suits
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001 CORPORATE SEAL.
   (A)   The corporate seal of the city shall be the same as that heretofore
provided and used by the city. It shall be circular in form with the words
“City of Belleville, Illinois” in the exterior circle and the figure of an
eagle in the center.
   (B)   The corporate seal shall be used as such seal in all cases provided
for by law or by the ordinances of the city, and in all other cases in which,
by law and custom, it is usual and necessary for the corporation to use a seal.
(1960 Code, § 3.01)
§ 31.002 CITY OFFICE HOURS.
   The office hours of the city office in the City Hall, except the Police
Department, shall be from 8:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday,
except legal holidays.
(1960 Code, § 3.19) (Ord. 4788, passed 11-19-1990)
§ 31.003 WORK WEEK.
   The work week for all employees of the city, other than police officers and
firefighters, shall be Monday, through and including, Sunday.
(1960 Code, § 3.195) (Ord. 3275, passed 12-30-1974)
§ 31.004 FISCAL YEAR AND MUNICIPAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city shall end on April 30 in each year. The
municipal year shall commence on the first Monday of May of each year.
(1960 Code, § 3.20)
§ 31.005 VACATIONS.
   (A)   Employees who have completed one year of service with the employer
shall receive two weeks’ vacation with pay per year. Employees who have
completed seven years of service with the employer shall receive three weeks’
vacation with pay per year. Employees who have completed 12 years of service
with the employer shall receive four weeks’ vacation with pay per year.
   (B)   Vacation lists are to be posted as of March 15 of each year and remain
posted until April 15 of each year. Employees shall select their vacations
according to seniority, and any employee not selecting his or her vacation by
April 15 shall have his or her vacation scheduled by the department head.
   (C)   Appointed officers’ vacations shall be designated by the Mayor.
(1960 Code, § 3.21) (Ord. 3264, passed 12-2-1974)
§ 31.006 HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   The following designated days shall be legal holidays for all
employees:
      (1)   New Year’s Day;
      (2)   Martin Luther King, Jr. Day;
      (3)   Presidents’ Day;
      (4)   Memorial Day;
      (5)   Independence Day;
      (6)   Juneteenth National Freedom Day;
      (7)   Labor Day;
      (8)   Veteran’s Day;
      (9)   Thanksgiving and day after;
      (10)   Christmas Day; and
      (11)   Good Friday.
   (B)   If any of the above holidays fall on Saturday, then the immediate
preceding Friday shall be considered the holiday. If any of the above holidays
fall on a Sunday, the next succeeding Monday shall be considered the holiday.
   (C)   (1)   The following designated days shall be legal holidays for all
employees and the city offices shall be closed for one-half day on such days:
         (a)   Christmas Eve; and
         (b)   New Year’s Eve.
      (2)   Since a full day consists of eight hours, a half-day shall consist
of four hours.
   (D)   If Christmas or New Year’s falls on Saturday, the preceding Friday
shall be considered the holiday and Thursday shall be considered the Christmas
Eve or New Year’s Eve holiday. If Christmas or New Year’s falls on Sunday, the
following Monday shall be considered the holiday and the preceding Friday shall
be considered the Christmas Eve or New Year’s Eve holiday. If Christmas or New
Year’s falls on a Monday, the preceding Friday shall be considered the
Christmas Eve or New Year’s Eve holiday.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to members of the
Police Department, Fire Department and shift operators at the city’s sewer
treatment plant. Such employees shall be governed by the provisions of their
respective union contracts.
(1960 Code, § 3.211) (Ord. 3264, passed 12-2-1974; Ord. 4788, passed 11-19-
1990; Ord. 9030-2022, passed 2-22-2022)
§ 31.007 IMPROVEMENTS.
   Any work or public improvement which is not to be paid for in whole or in
part by special assessment or special taxation, when the expense thereof will
exceed $25,000, shall be constructed either by contract let to the lowest
responsible bidder after advertising for bids, in the manner prescribed by
ordinance; except that, any such contract may be entered into by the proper
officers without advertising for bids, if authorized by a vote of two-thirds of
all the aldermen or trustees then holding office. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, architects, engineers and land surveyors shall be contracted in
accordance with the Illinois Local Government Professional Services Selection
Act (50 ILCS 510/1 et seq.).
(1960 Code, § 3.22) (Ord. 4724, passed 4-2-1990; Ord. 8957-2021, passed 6-21-
2021; Ord. 8969-2021, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 31.008 TOWN OF BELLEVILLE.
   (A)   Clerk and Collector. The Town of Belleville and the City of Belleville
are co-extensive, and the City Clerk is ex-officio Clerk of the Town of
Belleville, and the City Treasurer is ex-officio Collector of the Town of
Belleville.
   (B)   Elections; meetings. The Town of Belleville is divided into 33
election districts, each district to be co-extensive with and have the same
boundaries as the election districts of the city. The voting place in each
district shall be the same as that designated by the City Council as the voting
place for the election of city officers. The judges of election at any town
election shall be the same persons for each district as are appointed as judges
for an election for city officers held on the same day. The town meeting for
the transaction of town business shall be held in the City Hall in the City of
Belleville.
(1960 Code, § 3.24) (Ord. 4888, passed 10-7-1991)
§ 31.009 APPOINTMENT OF EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   All persons seeking employment with the city, other than appointive
officers, shall make application for such employment to the office of human
resources.
   (B)   Any person hired on a full-time basis by the city must reside within
25 miles of the corporate city limits within 18 months from the date of his or
her employment and from that date forward as a condition of his or her
employment. If a city employee moves beyond the aforementioned boundaries while
this requirement is in effect, his or her employment shall be terminated.
(1960 Code, § 3.295) (Ord. 5359, passed 12-5-1994; Ord. 6100, passed 4-3-2000;
Ord. 7686, passed 5-6-2013; Ord. 8159-2018, passed 1-15-2018; Ord. 8956-2021,
passed 6-21-2021; Ord. 9159-2023, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 31.010 SICK LEAVE.
   (A)   The term SICK LEAVE, as used in this section, means any illness or
injury incurred while employee is actually in the service of the city.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to seasonal workers or employees serving
under temporary appointments.
   (C)   All employees working under the jurisdiction of the agreement shall
receive 15 days per year sick leave, accumulative at the rate of one and one-
fourth days per month starting with the first month of employment and shall be
able to accumulate an unlimited amount of sick leave; except that, the
employees of the city’s Fire Department shall receive 126 hours per year sick
leave accumulative at the rate of ten and one-half hours per month starting
with the first month of employment and shall be allowed to accumulate an
unlimited amount of sick leave. In the event the city deems it necessary to
have a written statement from the doctor, the employee shall so present it.
This is not to be construed that it is necessary to present a doctor’s
certificate at all times. The employees are not to abuse the provisions of this
section. Over-time shall not be used for sick leave unless accumulated sick
leave has been used.
(1960 Code, § 3.30) (Ord. 2681, passed - -; Ord. 3264, passed 12-2-1974; Ord.
4788, passed 11-19-1990)
§ 31.011 FUNERAL LEAVE.
   When there is a funeral within the immediate family of an employee, such
employee shall be allowed five days’ time off, not including Saturday, Sunday
or holidays. ( IMMEDIATE FAMILY shall be husband, wife, father, mother, child
or step-child of an employee.) Where there is a funeral for the sister,
brother, father-in-law, mother-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law, step-
father, step-mother, grandfather, grandmother or grandchildren of an employee,
such employee shall be allowed three days’ time off, not including Saturday,
Sunday or holidays.
(1960 Code, § 3.301) (Ord. 4788, passed 11-19-1990)
§ 31.012 OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT, POLICE OFFICERS AND FIREFIGHTERS.
   Members of the Police and Fire Departments of the city may be employed or
engaged in a business or occupation compatible with their city employment,
subject, however, to the following limitations.
   (A)   They shall not engage in the occupation of bartender, bouncer or
tavern operator; if a police officer or firefighter is employed at an
organizational dance within the city limits, he or she shall not be considered
to be a bouncer.
   (B)   They shall not engage in any illegal occupation, such as gambling or
working in gambling houses.
   (C)   They shall not be gainfully employed or engaged in any business or
occupation other than their city employment for more than 20 hours in any
calendar week.
   (D)   They shall not be gainfully engaged in any employment or other
business or occupation outside the greater Belleville area.
   (E)   In the event of injury sustained in gainful employment, business or
occupation other than city employment, police officers and firefighters shall
not be entitled to time off with pay for any lost employment resulting
therefrom. In the event that an injury is incurred in said outside gainful
employment or occupation and sick pay is denied by the city, this shall in no
way affect the employee’s tenure in his or her position.
   (F)   Even though engaged in other approved employment, business or
occupation, members of the Police and Fire Department shall be available for
call to duty within a reasonable time.
   (G)   If the Chief of the Department has reason to believe that outside
employment is adversely affecting the work of any of his or her employees, he
or she should discuss the matter with that employee. After such discussion, if
no agreement is reached, both the Chief and the employee should request a
hearing before the Mayor and the Police and Fire Committees. If the Mayor and
the Police and Fire Committees concur, in the opinion of the Chief, the
employee may appeal to a committee composed of one Alderman who is not a member
of the Police and Fire Committees, a representative of labor and a
representative of the Chamber of Commerce. Such representatives shall be
mutually agreed upon. If the findings of the Mayor and Police and Fire
Committees concur in the opinion of the employee, there shall be no appeal.
(1960 Code, § 3.32) (Ord. 2503, passed - -)
§ 31.013 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      APPOINTED OFFICIALS. Includes, but is not limited to, all members of any
board, committee, commission or other body appointed by the city.
      MUNICIPAL OFFICER. Any elected or appointed official of the city.
   (B)   No municipal officer shall vote on any proposition or issue before the
body on which he or she sits if said officer will be directly or indirectly
benefitted financially by the passage or failure of the proposition or issue.
   (C)   When a proposition or issue arises where a municipal officer will be
directly or indirectly benefitted financially, it shall be the duty of said
municipal officer to inform the body on which he sits of the possible financial
benefit. If the proposition or issue is to be forwarded to the City Council for
the final approval, then it shall further be the duty of said municipal officer
to report to the City Council of his or her possible financial benefits from
their action.
(1960 Code, § 3.34) (Ord. 3276, passed 12-30-1974)
§ 31.014 POWER TO DEDUCT WAGES FOR DEBTS.
   (A)   (1)   When an employee of the city is indebted to the city, the city
may withhold from the compensation of that employee the amount of the debt that
is due and owing; provided, however, that, the maximum deduction for any work
week shall not exceed the lesser of:
         (a)   Fifteen percent of the gross amount paid for that week; or
         (b)   The amount by which disposable earnings for a weed exceed 45
times the federal minimum hourly wage prescribed by 29 U.S.C. § 206(a)(1) as
amended, in effect at the time the amounts are payable.
      (2)   No amounts required by law to be withheld may be taken for the
amount collected by the creditor. The term disposable earnings means that part
of the earnings of any individual remaining after the deduction from those
earnings of any amounts required by law to be withheld.
   (B)   The city may deduct any amount from the salary or wage of an employee
of this section. The employee shall be given an opportunity for a hearing to
dispute the debt that is due and owing to the city. The hearing shall be
conducted by the city’s Finance Director.
(1960 Code, § 3.36) (Ord. 6484, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 31.015 STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT.
   (A)   The regulations of § 5-15 (5 ILCS 430/5-15) and Art. 10 (5 ILCS 430/
10-10 through 10-40) of the state’s Officials and Employees Ethics Act, 5 ILCS
430/1-1 et seq., (hereinafter referred to as the “Act” in this section) are
hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the officers and employees
of the city to the extent required by 5 ILCS 430/70-5.
   (B)   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the Act, by any officer or any employee of the city, is hereby
prohibited.
   (C)   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the city under the Act, is hereby prohibited.
   (D)   The participation in political activities prohibited under the Act, by
any officer or employee of the city, is hereby prohibited.
   (E)   For the purposes of this section, the terms OFFICER and EMPLOYEE shall
be defined as set forth in 5 ILCS 430/70-5(c).
   (F)   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as
those penalties set forth in 5 ILCS 430/50-5 for similar violations of the Act.
   (G)   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of city officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 ILCS 430/70-5(a).
   (H)   Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the city.
   (I)   If the state’s Supreme Court declares the Act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the state’s
Supreme Court’s decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the city if the Act is found unconstitutional by
the state’s Supreme Court.
   (J)   If the state’s Supreme Court declares part of the Act
unconstitutional, but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the
Act, or does not address the remainder of the Act, then the remainder of the
Act as adopted by this section shall remain in full force and effect; however,
that part of this section relating to the part of the Act found
unconstitutional shall be deemed repealed without further action by the
corporate authorities of the city.
(1960 Code, § 3.37) (Ord. 6650, passed 5-3-2004)
§ 31.016 FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT.
   (A)   Freedom of information officers.
      (1)   In accordance with § 3.5(a) of the state’s Freedom of Information
Act (FOIA) (5 ILCS 140/3.5), the City Clerk is hereby designated as the Chief
FOIA Officer who, except in instances when records are furnished immediately,
shall receive requests submitted to the city under the FOIA, shall ensure that
the city responds to requests in a timely fashion and shall issue responses
under the FOIA. As Chief FOIA Officer, the City Clerk shall develop a list of
documents or categories of records that the city shall immediately disclose
upon request. As further contemplated by § 3.5(a) of the FOIA, the following
positions are hereby designated as Deputy FOIA Officers authorized to act in
assistance to and/or in the stead of the Chief FOIA Officer under the FOIA and
this section:
         (a)   Treasurer;
         (b)   Assistant to the Mayor;
         (c)   Assistant City Clerk;
         (d)   Assistant Treasurer;
         (e)   Police Chief or designee; and
         (f)   Fire Chief or designee.
      (2)   The Chief FOIA Officer and Deputy FOIA Officers shall successfully
complete an electronic training curriculum to be developed by the Public Access
Counselor of the state and thereafter successfully complete an annual training
program as required by § 3.5(b) of the FOIA (5 ILCS 140/3.5(b)).
   (B)   FOIA request process.
      (1)   (a)   Upon receiving a request for a public record, the FOIA
Officer shall:
            1.   Note the date the city receives the written request;
            2.   Compute the day on which the period for response will expire
and make a notation of that date on the written request;
            3.   Maintain an electronic or paper copy of a written request,
including all documents submitted with the request until the request has been
complied with or denied; and
            4.   Create a file for the retention of the original request, a
copy of the response, a record of written communications with the requester and
a copy of other communications.
         (b)   Except in instances when records are furnished immediately,
within one business day of receiving the request, the FOIA Officer shall
distribute a copy of same to the offices of the Mayor and all relevant city
departments and request production of responsive documents maintained by such
offices. Within two business days thereafter, the offices of the Mayor and each
city department so contacted shall provide any responsive documents to the FOIA
Officer. Within one business day thereafter, the FOIA Officer shall draft and
compile a response to the request, and review same with the City Attorney as
necessary to determine the applicability of any exemptions under § 7 of the
FOIA (5 ILCS 140/7). Within one business day thereafter, or any further
extension under § 3(e) of the FOIA (5 ILCS 140/3(e)), the FOIA Officer shall
provide a final response to the request. In accordance with § 9 of the FOIA (5
ILCS 140/9), any denial of a request by the FOIA Officer shall notify the
requester in writing of the decision to deny the request, the reasons for the
denial, including a detailed factual basis for the application of any exemption
claimed, and the names and titles or positions of each person responsible for
the denial, and shall also inform the person of the right to review by the
Public Access Counselor, including the address and phone number for the Public
Access Counselor, as well as the right to judicial review under § 11 of the
FOIA (5 ILCS 140/11).
      (2)   Any records which are the subject of a request under the FOIA shall
be retrieved from such place as they are stored, by the FOIA Officer, or by an
employee of the city acting under the direction of the FOIA Officer. In no
event shall records be retrieved by the party requesting them or by any person
who is not employed by the city.
      (3)   If copies of records are requested, the fees for such copies,
whether certified or not, shall be as determined from time to time by the FOIA
Officer pursuant to § 6(b) of the FOIA (5 ILCS 140/6(b)). The City Clerk shall
maintain a written schedule of current fees in the Clerk’s office. The fees so
charged shall reflect the actual cost of copying the records, and the cost of
certifying copies, if certification is requested.
   (C)   Preparation and maintenance of information. As Chief FOIA Officer, the
City Clerk shall prepare and maintain the information required by § 4 of the
FOIA (5 ILCS 140/4) for display in offices and on the city’s website, as well
as inspection/copying.
(Ord. 7744, passed 1-21-2014)
§ 31.017 POLICY PROHIBITING SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   (A)   Prohibition on sexual harassment. It is unlawful to harass a person
because of that person's sex. The courts have determined that sexual harassment
is a form of discrimination under Title VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of
1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have a right to work in an environment
free from sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is unacceptable misconduct which
affects individuals of all genders and sexual orientations. It is a policy of
the City of Belleville, Illinois (city) to prohibit harassment of any person by
any city official, agent, employee or agency or office on the basis of sex or
gender. All city officials, agents, municipal employees and agencies or offices
are prohibited from sexually harassing any person, regardless of any employment
relationship or lack thereof.
   (B)   Definition of sexual harassment. This policy adopts the definition of
sexual harassment as stated in the Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently
defines sexual harassment as:
      (1)   Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any
conduct of a sexual nature when:
         (a)   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or
implicitly a term or condition of an individual's employment;
         (b)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is
used as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
         (c)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially
interfering with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating,
hostile or offensive working environment.
      (2)   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes:
         (a)   Verbal: sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor,
and jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature.
         (b)   Non-verbal: suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, "catcalls", "smacking"
or "kissing" noises.
         (c)   Visual: posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites.
         (d)   Physical: touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching,
brushing the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
         (e)   Textual/electronic: "sexting" (electronically sending messages
with sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually
explicit language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of
electronic communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line
postings, blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and
Twitter).
      (3)   The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to
determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what
would offend a "reasonable person."
   (C)   Procedure for reporting an allegation of sexual harassment.
      (1)   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes
herself/himself to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the
incident(s) as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her/his
position to the offending employee, and her/his immediate supervisor. It is not
necessary for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the report.
      (2)   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following:
         (a)   Electronic/direct communication. If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her/his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
         (b)   Contact with supervisory personnel.
            1.   At the same time direct communication is undertaken, or in the
event the employee feels threatened or intimidated by the situation, the
problem must be promptly reported to the immediate supervisor of the person
making the report, a department head, the Director of Human Resources, an
ethics officer, an administrator, or the Mayor.
            2.   The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual
harassment must not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there
are no witnesses and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other
responsible officer, the city will not be presumed to have knowledge of the
harassment.
         (c)   Resolution outside city.
            1.   The purpose of this policy is to establish prompt, thorough
and effective procedures for responding to every report and incident so that
problems can be identified and remedied by the city. However, all city
employees have the right to contact the Illinois Department of Human Rights
(IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) for information
regarding filing a formal complaint with those entities. An IDHR or EEOC
complaint must be filed within 300 days of the alleged incident.
            2.   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report
(what was said or done, the date, the time and the place), including, but not
limited to, written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone
messages.
            3.   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted
and investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
city. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment charges
and the difficulties associated with their investigation and the questions of
credibility involved, the claimant's willing cooperation is a vital component
of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome.
   (D)   Prohibition on retaliation for reporting sexual harassment
allegations.
      (1)   No city official, agent, employee or agency or office shall take
any retaliatory action against any city employee due to a city employee's:
         (a)   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this
policy,
         (b)   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation
of this policy, or
         (c)   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
      (2)   For the purposes of this policy, retaliatory action means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any city employee that is
taken in retaliation for a city employee's involvement in protected activity
pursuant to this policy.
      (3)   No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
      (4)   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein,
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (5 ILCS 430/15-10) provides
whistleblower protection from retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge,
suspension, demotion, or denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in
retaliation for an employee who does any of the following:
         (a)   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a
public body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, state
agency, or other state employee that the state employee reasonably believes is
in violation of a law, rule, or regulation,
         (b)   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, state agency or other state
employee, or
         (c)   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
      (5)   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act (740 ILCS 174/15(a)), an employer
may not retaliate against an employee who discloses information in a court, an
administrative hearing, or before a legislative commission or committee, or in
any other proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that
the information discloses a violation of a state or federal law, rule, or
regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an employee for
disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency, where the
employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of a state or federal law, rule, or regulation. (740 ILCS 174/15(b)).
      (6)   According to the Illinois Human Rights Act (775 ILCS 5/6-101), it
is a civil rights violation for a person, or for two or more people to
conspire, to retaliate against a person because he/she has opposed that which
he/she reasonably and in good faith believes to be sexual harassment in
employment, because he/she has made a charge, filed a complaint, testified,
assisted, or participated in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the
Illinois Human Rights Act.
      (7)   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or
passed over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may
file a retaliation charge within 300 days (EEOC) of the alleged retaliation.
   (E)   Consequences of a violation of the prohibition on sexual harassment.
In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant to
city policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/or
collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this policy or the
Prohibition on Sexual Harassment contained in 5 ILCS 430/5-65, may be subject
to a fine of up to $5,000 per offense, applicable discipline or discharge by
the city and any applicable fines and penalties established pursuant to local
ordinance, state law or federal law. Each violation may constitute a separate
offense. Any discipline imposed by the city shall be separate and distinct from
any penalty imposed by an ethics commission and any fines or penalties imposed
by a court of law or a state or federal agency.
   (F)   Consequences for knowingly making a false report.
      (1)   A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser
using the sexual harassment report to accomplish some end other than stopping
sexual harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false
report is not a report made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the
seriousness of the consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is
a severe offense that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who
intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of
this policy shall be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant to applicable
city policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/or
collective bargaining agreements.
      (2)   In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report
alleging a violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees
Ethics Act to an ethics commission, an inspector general, the State Police, a
state's attorney, the Attorney General, or any other law enforcement official
is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. An ethics commission may levy an
administrative fine of up to $5,000 against any person who intentionally makes
a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation.
(Ord. 8141-2017, passed 12-18-2017; Ord. 8290-2018, passed 12-17-2018)
§ 31.018 TRAVEL EXPENSES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      ENTERTAINMENT. Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements,
theaters, circuses, sporting events or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
      PUBLIC BUSINESS. Expenses incurred in the performance of a public purpose
which is required or useful for the benefit of the city to carry out the
responsibilities of city business.
      TRAVEL. Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by employees
and officers of the city or by wards or charges of the city involving
reimbursement to travelers or direct payment to private agencies providing
transportation, lodging, meals or related services.
   (B)   The city shall only reimburse expenses incurred for the following
types of travel related to public business incurred by its employees and
officers as follows:
      (1)   Transportation, including airfare, train fare, public
transportation, parking, toll, and car rental (if traveling out of state by
air), gas for non-personal vehicle use, or personal automobile mileage at the
IRS rate when incurred; provided that employees and officers must choose the
most cost-effective option for transportation, and the allowable mode of
transportation and cost must be pre-approved by
the applicable immediate supervisor.
      (2)   Lodging that is overnight lodging (room rate and tax only) 50 miles
or more from the employee's or officer's primary worksite; provided that
overnight lodging reservation must be pre-approved by the applicable immediate
supervisor.
      (3)   (a)   Meals, provided that original itemized receipts are submitted
and the meal purchased was not otherwise offered as part of the conference or
training attended, with gratuity capped at 20% of the bill, at the following
maximum reimbursement:
            1.   Breakfast: $13.
            2.   Lunch: $16.
            3.   Dinner: $30.
         (b)   Non-alcoholic drinks and snacks unrelated to meals, as well as
alcohol, are specifically excluded/prohibited from reimbursement.
   (C)   No reimbursement of travel expenses incurred by a city employee or
officer shall be authorized unless a "travel expense reimbursement request
form" has been submitted and approved.
   (D)   Travel expenses for transportation, lodging and meals of any officer
or employee that exceeds the maximum reimbursement allowed under the
regulations of this section, or any member of the corporate authorities of the
city, may only be approved by roll call vote at an open meeting of the
corporate authorities of the city; provided, however, in the event of an
emergency or other extraordinary
circumstances, the corporate authorities may approve more than the maximum
allowable expenses set forth in this section.
   (E)   The city shall not reimburse any employee or officer for any
activities which would be considered entertainment; provided, however, that
activities which would otherwise be considered entertainment, but which are
excluded from the prohibition on reimbursement due to being ancillary to the
purpose of the program or event, may be reimbursed in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
(Ord. 9366-2025, passed 2-18-2025)
OFFICERS AND SUBORDINATES
§ 31.030 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   Election procedures. The provisions of the 10 ILCS 5, concerning
municipal elections, shall govern the conduct of the city elections.
   (B)   Voting hours. The judges of election shall keep the polls open during
the hours prescribed by law.
   (C)   Beginning of electives’ terms. The city hereby adopts the date of May
1 (the beginning of the city’s fiscal year) as the date for the beginning of
the term of officials elected at the April elections.
(1960 Code, § 3.02) (Ord. 2311, passed - -; Ord. 3779, passed 3-16-1981)
§ 31.031 CITY OFFICERS.
   (A)   Appointment. On the first Monday of May in each year, or as soon
thereafter as possible, there shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the
approval of the City Council, all appointive city officers, who shall hold
their several offices for the term of one year and until their successors are
appointed and qualified. A city officer shall become a resident of the city
within 15 months from the date of his or her initial appointment and his or her
continuing residency from that date forward shall be a condition of his or her
employment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, consistent with Section 3.1-10-6 of
the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-6), such city residency
requirement does not apply to the City Engineer, City Attorney or any other
city officer who requires technical training or knowledge as determined by the
City Council; provided, however, that a City Officer who is exempt from the
city residency requirement must still reside within 25 miles of the corporate
city limits.
   (B)   Offices vacated by removal. Except as otherwise provided in this
division (B), any officer of the city who leaves the city with the intention of
permanently residing without the limits thereof shall be deemed to have vacated
his office.
   (C)   Leaves of absence. Any officer desiring to be temporarily absent from
the city shall apply to the Mayor for leave of absence, which may, in the
discretion of the Mayor, be granted in writing for any time not exceeding 20
days and, when granted, shall be filed with the City Clerk.
   (D)   Books delivered to successor. Every officer shall, upon going out of
office, deliver to his or her successor all books, papers, furniture and other
things appertaining to such office and which is the property of the city.
   (E)   Books open to inspection. Every officer shall, at all times when
required, submit the books and papers of his or her office to the inspection of
the Mayor or any committee or member of the Council.
   (F)   Fees. No officer of the city shall be entitled to charge or receive
any fees as against the city.
   (G)   Report of fees. All officers of the city entitled to receive fees
shall keep a correct amount thereof, and make a report thereof, under oath, to
the Council on the first Monday of May, August, November and February in each
year. In the report, they shall specify from whom such fees were received, for
what service and when received. All fees received shall be paid over into the
City Treasury, except when otherwise provided.
   (H)   Building fees. All plumbing fees, building permit fees and electrical
inspection and boiler inspection fees shall be deposited with the City Clerk on
or before the eighth day of each month by the city officials charged with the
collection thereof.
   (I)   Other rules and regulations. Every officer of the city shall perform
such other duties, and be subject to such other rules and regulations, as the
Council may provide by ordinance.
(1960 Code, § 3.03) (Ord. 2169, passed - -; Ord. 7686, passed 5-6-2013; Ord.
8159-2018, passed 1-15-2018; Ord. 8970-2021, passed 7-19-2021; Ord. 9159-2023,
passed 6-5-2023)
§ 31.032 BONDS OF CITY OFFICERS.
   (A)   Amount.
      (1)   Bonds of city officers shall be executed in the following penal
sums:
         (a)   Mayor: $3,000;
         (b)   City Clerk: $10,000;
         (c)   License Collector: $3,000;
         (d)   Chief of Police: $3,000;
         (e)   Lieutenants of Police: $500;
         (f)   Sergeants of Police: $500;
         (g)   Fire Chief: $500;
         (h)   City Attorney: $1,000;
         (i)   Assistant City Attorney: $1,000;
         (j)   City Engineer: $5,000;
         (k)   Superintendent of Streets: $4,000;
         (l)   Superintendent of Waste Water Treatment and Sewer Lines: $5,000;
         (m)   Electrical Inspector: $1,000;
         (n)   Inspector of Steam Boilers: $2,000;
         (o)   Superintendent of Cemetery: $2,000;
         (p)   Supervisor of Sewer Collections: $5,000;
         (q)   Director of Finance: $3,000; and
         (r)   Board of Police and Fire Commissioners: $1,000.
      (2)   The City Treasurer shall post a bond in the amount of $160,000;
said bond shall be his or her public official bond and shall also be the bond
for the Police Pension Fund, Firemen’s Pension Fund, Sewer Rental Fund and the
Cemetery Fund.
   (B)   Premium payment by city. Whenever the City Treasurer or City Clerk
shall furnish a surety bond required by ordinance, the city may, upon proper
allowance by the City Council, pay the premium due upon such bond, not
exceeding 1% per annum on the amount of the bond.
   (C)   Surety.
      (1)   The City Council shall not receive or approve any bond or security
whereon the name of the Mayor, any one of the Aldermen or any of the elected or
appointed officers of the city appear as bondsman or security.
      (2)   If, by mistake, a bond containing the name of any such officer is
approved by the Council, or if any bondsman, after becoming such is elected or
appointed to any city office, this section shall not act as a release of any
such obligation incurred.
(1960 Code, § 3.05) (Ord. 2539, passed - -; Ord. 2672, passed - -; Ord. 2677,
passed - -; Ord. 3437, passed 6-20-1977; Ord. 5147, passed 11-1-1993; Ord.
5144, passed 11-1-1993; Ord. 5747, passed 7-21-1997)
§ 31.033 CITY OFFICES CONSOLIDATED.
   (A)   The City Council may, from time to time by ordinance, impose upon any
officer, filling any office created by the ordinances of the city, any such
other or further duties as shall be consistent with the laws of the state, and
may consolidate any two or more of said offices and impose the duties thereof
upon any other officer, and may make any such regulations respecting such
offices as shall be consistent with the laws of the state.
   (B)   In case the City Council consolidates any offices created by it, the
person performing the duties of the offices so consolidated shall not be
entitled on account thereof to receive any salary or compensation which he or
she would not have been entitled to receive if such consolidation had not taken
place.
(1960 Code, § 3.06)
§ 31.034 REFUSAL TO PERFORM DUTIES.
   Any officer of the city who refuses to discharge any lawful duty imposed
upon him or her by any ordinance of the city shall, on conviction thereof, be
fined not less than $20, nor more than $200.
(1960 Code, § 3.07)
§ 31.035 DEPUTY CLERK.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Office of Deputy Clerk.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall appoint the Deputy Clerk who shall have the power
and duty to execute all documents required by any law to be executed by the
City Clerk and affix the seal of the city thereto whenever required. In signing
any documents, the Deputy Clerk shall sign the name of the City Clerk followed
with the word “By” and the Deputy Clerk’s own name and the words “Deputy
Clerk”.
   (C)   The powers and duties herein described shall be exercised by such
Deputy Clerk only in the absence of the City Clerk from the City Clerk’s office
in the City Hall, and only when either written direction has been given by the
City Clerk to such deputy to exercise such power or the City Council has
determined by resolution that the City Clerk is temporarily or permanently
incapacitated to perform such functions.
(1960 Code, § 3.11) (Ord. 2372, passed - -)
§ 31.036 PERSONNEL MANAGER AND AFFIRMATIVE ACTION OFFICER.
   (A)   Created. There is hereby created the appointive Office of Personnel
Manager and Affirmative Action Officer. He or she shall be appointed and serve
in accordance with the provisions of §§
31.055 through
31.062 of this chapter.
   (B)   Duties. The Manager and Affirmative Action Officer shall:
      (1)   Ensure that all requirements of existing civil rights laws,
Affirmative Action programs and all other legal requirements pertinent to equal
employment opportunity and non-discriminatory practices are in place and
properly functioning in the city;
      (2)   Work with the Personnel Committee of the City Council and the Mayor
in developing personnel procedures, policies, wage guidelines, job descriptions
and employee records systems;
      (3)   Train all management staff in personnel matters and administration;
      (4)   Assist with the development and implementation of new employee
benefit programs;
      (5)   Participate with management and staff in day-to-day personnel
activities, contract negotiations, addressing grievances, counseling and in the
hiring process of the city employees;
      (6)   Attend City Council meetings, departmental meetings and such other
meetings as may be necessary to adequately discharge his or her duties; and
      (7)   Perform any other duties that may be assigned by the city.
(1960 Code, § 3.15) (Ord. 5201, passed 1-3-1994)
§ 31.037 (RESERVED)
§ 31.038 CUSTODIAN OF CITY HALL.
   The Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, shall appoint a custodian
of the City Hall. The custodian shall be appointed in like manner and at such
time as provided for the appointment of city officers and he or she shall be
governed by the same rules and regulations prescribed for city officers.
(1960 Code, § 3.17) (Ord. 2071, passed - -)
§ 31.039 SALARIES AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   The salaries of the Mayor, City Clerk and City Treasurer shall be as
set out by the Council from time to time.
   (B)   The Mayor, City Clerk and City Treasurer shall each be entitled to
reimbursement for the actual expenditures incurred in the performance of his or
her official duties; prior approval of the City Council shall be required only
for those single item expenditures exceeding $100.
   (C)   All appointed municipal officers and employees shall receive the
salary, wages or other compensation that is fixed by the annual budget
ordinance. The salary of each elected official, appointed officer and appointed
employee shall, for each department be scheduled as part of the budget
document. The total for such schedule shall equal the line item “Personnel
Services” object class of each department’s budget. Once the annual budget
ordinance is adopted, the salary, wages or other compensation of any appointed
officer or appointed employee may not be increased without a duly- approved
amendment to said budget. The salary, wages or other compensation so
established shall be paid in bi-weekly installments. If a vacancy occurs after
the annual budget ordinance is adopted and before a new appointment or
temporary appointment is approved by the City Council, the salary, wages or
other compensation for said vacancy may be raised or lowered by legally
amending said budget.
   (D)   (1)   Elected official. Any elected official who has served one full
term, is not re-elected or chooses to retire from his or her elected office
shall be allowed to continue to participate in the city health insurance
indefinitely, so long as they pay their own expenses for premiums and any other
cost that may be associated with said coverage.
      (2)   Aldermen. The Aldermen shall additionally be allowed to purchase
insurance coverage through the city so long as they pay their own expense for
premiums and any other cost that may be associated with said coverage.
(1960 Code, § 3.18) (Ord. 3404, passed 12-6-1976; Ord. 5419, passed 4-17-1995;
Ord. 5716, passed 3-17-1997; Ord. 7057, passed 11-20-2007)
MAYOR
§ 31.055 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   The Mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the City Council, shall
appoint all city officers whose election or appointment is not otherwise
provided for by Illinois law. The Mayor, by and with the advice and consent of
the Council, shall appoint such special legal counsel as the Mayor may deem
expedient. Such consent for all such appointments or temporary appointments
shall be expressed by a majority of the Council members authorized by law to be
elected, by a vote taken by “yeas” and “nays” and entered upon its record.
(1960 Code, § 3.08) (Ord. 8021-2017, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 31.056 NOTICE TO CITY COUNCIL OF APPOINTMENT.
   Whenever a vacancy occurs in any office which the Mayor is required to make
an appointment under §
31.055 of this chapter, the Mayor shall, within 60 days after such vacancy
occurs, communicate to the Council by written notice or verbally at a duly-
called meeting of the City Council the name of the appointee or temporary
appointee to such office. The City Council shall vote on the pending
appointment in a period of time of not less than ten days, nor more than 21
days, after receiving such notification.
(1960 Code, § 3.08) (Ord. 8021-2017, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 31.057 TEMPORARY APPOINTMENT.
   Pending the concurrence of the Council in such appointment under §
31.055 of this chapter, the Mayor may designate a suitable person to discharge
the functions of such office. The Mayor shall notify members of the City
Council of such temporary appointment within 48 hours of making the
appointment. A temporary appointee shall not serve for more than 30 days
without approval by a majority vote of the City Council.
(1960 Code, § 3.08) (Ord. 8021-2017, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 31.058 REJECTION OF APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   Should the name of any Mayoral appointment under §
31.055 of this chapter or temporary appointment under §
31.056 of this chapter fail to receive a majority vote by the members of the
City Council authorized by law to be elected, the employment of the appointee
so rejected shall cease within 60 days after the vote.
   (B)   The Mayor shall determine the exact date of termination, but in no
case shall employment and accompanying salary, wages or compensation of the
person so rejected continue beyond 60 days from the date so rejected by the
City Council.
   (C)   Any person rejected for such appointment shall not be further
recommended to the City Council for the position so rejected or as a temporary
appointee for the position so rejected until the beginning of the next fiscal
year.
   (D)   Until a successor is appointed and qualified, the Mayor, by and with
the advice and consent of the City Council, shall make a temporary appointment
under §
31.057 of this chapter of a suitable person other than an appointee so
rejected.
(1960 Code, § 3.08) (Ord. 8021-2017, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 31.059 REMOVAL OF OFFICERS.
   The Mayor may remove any officer appointed by him or her under §
31.055 of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 3.08) (Ord. 8021-2017, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 31.060 SIGNATURE.
   The Mayor shall sign all commissions and permits granted by authority of the
City Council, except as may be otherwise provided.
(1960 Code, § 3.08)
§ 31.061 GENERAL DUTIES.
   In addition to the foregoing, and to the duties imposed upon him or her by
law, the Mayor shall perform such other duties pertaining to his or her office,
as are or may be required of him or her by ordinance.
(1960 Code, § 3.08) (Ord. 5730, passed 5-5-1997)
§ 31.062 OVERTIME AND COMPENSATORY TIME REVIEW.
   For budgetary purposes, all department heads shall turn over to the Mayor’s
office on a bi-monthly basis all overtime and compensatory time for their
department during the preceding two weeks. Both the name of the employee, the
date and hours worked and the reason for the overtime must be on this report.
This report is separate from the report that must be turned in to Human
Resources.
(1960 Code, § 3.08) (Ord. 6331, passed 9-17-2001)
CITY CLERK
§ 31.075 COUNCIL MINUTES.
   The City Clerk shall attend all meetings of the City Council, and shall keep
in a suitable book to be styled the “Journal of the City Council”, a full and
faithful record of its proceedings.
(1960 Code, § 3.09) (Ord. 7951-2016, passed 5-16-2016)
§ 31.076 RECORDS.
   The City Clerk shall record and properly index in a book kept for that
purpose, all ordinances passed by the City Council and at the foot of the
record of each ordinance so recorded, he or she shall make a memorandum of the
date of the passage, and when published, of the publication of such ordinance.
He or she shall also record, in proper books for the purpose, all official
bonds, and note upon each bond so recorded, when the same was entered of record
and the book and pages where recorded.
(1960 Code, § 3.09) (Ord. 7951-2016, passed 5-16-2016)
§ 31.077 PAPERS.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall deliver to the several committees of the City
Council, and to the officers of this city, all petitions, communications,
reports, resolutions, orders, claims and other papers, referred to those
committees or officers, by the Council, on demand therefor.
   (B)   He or she shall also, without delay, deliver to the Mayor all
ordinances or resolutions in his or her charge, which may require to be
approved or otherwise acted upon by the Mayor.
(1960 Code, § 3.09) (Ord. 7951-2016, passed 5-16-2016)
§ 31.078 LICENSES.
   The City Clerk shall prepare all licenses, permits and other official
documents required to be issued by him or her under this code and shall attest
the same with the corporate seal, and he or she shall in like manner attest all
deeds for the sale of real estate owned and conveyed by this city.
(1960 Code, § 3.09) (Ord. 7951-2016, passed 5-16-2016)
§ 31.079 (RESERVED)
§ 31.080 LICENSE PLATES.
   In all cases where the city requires a license to be obtained for the
purpose of engaging in or carrying on any business or occupation, and the
licensee is required to obtain from the City Clerk plates, tags or stickers, it
shall be the duty of the City Clerk to deliver such plates, tags or stickers
free to the person paying the license fee.
(1960 Code, § 3.09) (Ord. 7951-2016, passed 5-16-2016)
§ 31.081 SUCCESSOR.
   The City Clerk shall carefully preserve in his or her office all books,
records, papers, maps and effects of every description belonging to the city or
pertaining to his or her office, and not in actual use and possession of other
city officers, and upon the expiration of his or her official term, he or she
shall deliver all such books, records, papers and effects to his or her
successor in office.
(1960 Code, § 3.09) (Ord. 7951-2016, passed 5-16-2016)
§ 31.082 PAYMENTS.
   The City Clerk shall daily prepare an itemized list of all moneys received
and shall deliver a copy of the same to the City Treasurer and shall also daily
pay over to the City Treasurer all moneys received by him or her and take a
receipt therefor.
(1960 Code, § 3.09) (Ord. 7951-2016, passed 5-16-2016)
§ 31.083 WARRANT REGISTER.
   The City Clerk shall keep an accurate register of warrants drawn upon the
City Treasurer, specifying the date, to whom payable, the amount and the
particular fund or appropriation to which the same is chargeable.
(1960 Code, § 3.09) (Ord. 7951-2016, passed 5-16-2016)
§ 31.084 EX-OFFICIAL CLERK OF TOWN.
   The City Clerk shall be ex-officio clerk of the town, and shall keep a
separate record of all proceedings in relation to the town.
(1960 Code, § 3.09) (Ord. 7951-2016, passed 5-16-2016)
§ 31.085 EX-OFFICIO CLERK OF BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS.
   The City Clerk shall be ex-officio clerk of the Board of Local Improvements,
and shall keep a separate record of all proceedings in relation thereto.
(1960 Code, § 3.09) (Ord. 7951-2016, passed 5-16-2016)
§ 31.086 OTHER DUTIES.
   In addition to the foregoing duties, the City Clerk shall perform all such
other duties pertaining to his or her office as are or may be imposed upon him
or her by law or by resolution or ordinance of the City Council.
(1960 Code, § 3.09) (Ord. 7951-2016, passed 5-16-2016)
CITY TREASURER
§ 31.100 MONEY; WARRANTS.
   The City Treasurer shall receive all moneys belonging to the city, shall pay
all warrants signed by the Mayor and countersigned by the City Clerk and not
otherwise and shall keep a separate account of each fund or appropriation, and
the debits and credits belonging thereto. He or she shall give to every person
paying money into the City Treasury a receipt therefor, specifying the date of
payment and upon what account paid, and he or she shall file copies of such
receipts with the City Clerk with his or her monthly reports.
(1960 Code, § 3.13)
§ 31.101 REGISTER.
   The City Treasurer shall keep a register of all warrants redeemed and paid
by him or her, showing the number, date and amount of each, the fund from which
paid and the name of the person to whom and when paid, and he or she shall
cancel all warrants as soon as redeemed by him or her.
(1960 Code, § 3.13)
§ 31.102 FUNDS.
   The City Treasurer shall keep all moneys in his or her hands belonging to
the city separate and distinct from his or her own money, and he or she shall
not use either directly or indirectly the city moneys or warrants in his or her
custody and keeping for his or her own use and benefit, or that of any other
person. Any violation of this section shall subject him or her to removal from
office by the City Council.
(1960 Code, § 3.13)
§ 31.103 DELINQUENT OFFICERS.
   The City Treasurer shall report to the City Council any officer authorized
to receive money for the use of the city who may fail to make a return of the
moneys received by him or her at the time required by law.
(1960 Code, § 3.13)
§ 31.104 BOOKKEEPING.
   The City Treasurer shall keep his or her books and accounts in such manner
as to show the accuracy all moneys received and disbursed by him or her for the
city, stating from whom and on what account received, and to whom and on what
account paid out, and in such way that the books and accounts may be readily
investigated and understood, and the books and accounts and all files and
papers of his or her office shall be at all times open to examination by the
Mayor or the Finance Committee of the City Council.
(1960 Code, § 3.13)
§ 31.105 MONTHLY STATEMENTS.
   The City Treasurer, at the end of each month, and oftener when required by
the City Council, shall make a report in writing of all moneys collected by him
or her and the account whereon collected.
(1960 Code, § 3.13)
§ 31.106 ANNUAL ACCOUNT.
   The City Treasurer shall annually prepare and file an account with the City
Clerk an account of all moneys received and expenditures incurred during the
preceding fiscal year in accordance with the requirements set forth in Illinois
Municipal Code. The City Clerk’s office shall publish such account in
accordance with the requirements of the Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-
35-65.
(1960 Code, § 3.13) (Ord. 7056, passed 11-20-2007)
§ 31.107 EX-OFFICIO COLLECTOR OF SPECIAL TAXES AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   There is hereby created the Office of Collector of Special Taxes and Special
Assessments. The City Treasurer shall be ex-officio Collector of Special Taxes
and Special Assessments.
(1960 Code, § 3.13)
§ 31.108 FUNDS SEPARATE.
   Moneys received by the City Treasurer on any special assessment shall be
held by him or her as a special fund to be applied to the payment of the
improvement for which such special assessment or special tax was made, or to
reimburse the city for money expended for such improvement.
(1960 Code, § 3.13)
§ 31.109 DUTIES.
   The City Treasurer as Collector of Special Taxes and Special Assessments
shall execute all warrants for the collection of special taxes and special
assessments, which by law and ordinance may be executed by such Collector, and
he or she shall collect all special taxes and special assessments which are or
may be levied or assessed by virtue of any ordinance for the making of any
local improvement.
(1960 Code, § 3.13)
§ 31.110 RECEIPTS; DISCOUNTS.
   The City Treasurer shall receive and give a receipt for payment by any
person against whose property special taxes are assessed for local
improvements, or whose property is assessed for local improvements, or whose
property is assessed as specially benefitted by local improvements, in the
amount of his or her special tax or special assessment, less such discount as
may be authorized by the contract for the making of such improvement. The City
Treasurer shall not allow any discount upon any such special taxes or special
assessments, except when paid before or within ten days from the completion and
acceptance of the whole or such part of the improvement as may be provided in
the contract.
(1960 Code, § 3.13)
§ 31.111 ADJUSTMENT OF ACCOUNTS.
   In the adjustment of accounts of the City Treasurer with the City Clerk,
there shall be an appeal to the Finance Committee of the City Council, whose
decision in all matters of controversy arising between these officials shall be
final, unless the Council shall otherwise provide.
(1960 Code, § 3.13)
§ 31.112 MUNICIPAL BONDS AND DEBT PAYMENTS; RESPONSIBILITY FOR ASSURING TIMELY
DISBURSEMENTS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the City Treasurer to pay all principal
and interest payments for bond and other debt obligations of the city in a
timely manner utilizing an automated payment scheduling system as well as
assuring that all bond covenants are being met.
(1960 Code, § 3.13) (Ord. 5641, passed 10-21-1996)
CITY ATTORNEY
§ 31.125 DUTIES.
   The City Attorney shall prosecute and defend all suits and actions
originating and pending in any court of the state to which the city is a party,
or in which, in the opinion of the Mayor or City Council, the interests of the
city are affected, or in which the official acts of any of the officers, agents
or employees of the city are involved. He or she shall advise the City Council
and its committees, and any city officer, on such legal questions as may arise
in relation to the business of the city, and shall perform such other services
as may be required of him or her.
(1960 Code, § 3.14)
§ 31.126 DOCUMENTS DRAFTED.
   (A)   The City Attorney shall draw ordinances as may be required by the City
Council or by a committee thereof.
   (B)   He or she shall draw the leases, deeds, contracts and other papers
connected with any of the departments of the city when required to do so by the
head of such department or by the Mayor or Council.
   (C)   All ordinances introduced before the Council shall first be submitted
to the City Attorney to consider their proper construction and legality.
(1960 Code, § 3.14)
§ 31.127 SUITS.
   The City Attorney may dismiss any suit instituted by or in behalf of the
city only with the written consent of the Mayor.
(1960 Code, § 3.14)
§ 31.128 REPORT.
   The City Attorney shall make a report to the City Council on the first
Monday of May, August, November and February in each year, and also at the
close of his or her term in office, of all his or her acts and doings,
including an abstract of his or her docket. He or she shall, at the same time,
settle with the City Treasurer and pay over to him or her all moneys in his or
her hands belonging to the city.
(1960 Code, § 3.14)
§ 31.129 SUCCESSOR.
   Upon the expiration of his or her term of office, or his or her resignation
or removal, the City Attorney shall forthwith, upon demand, deliver to his or
her successor in office all deeds, leases, contracts, books and papers in his
or her hands belonging to the city or delivered to him or her by the city or
any of its officers, and all papers in actions prosecuted or defended by him or
her, then pending and undetermined.
(1960 Code, § 3.14)
§ 31.130 QUALIFICATIONS OF CITY ATTORNEY.
   The City Attorney shall reside in St. Clair County.
(1960 Code, § 3.14) (Ord. 7686, passed 5-6-2013; Ord. 8970-2021, passed 7-19-
2021)
§ 31.131 ASSISTANT CITY ATTORNEY.
   There is hereby created the Office of Assistant City Attorney. The Assistant
City Attorney shall assist the City Attorney in all matters outlined in §§
31.125 through 31.130 of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 3.141) (Ord. 2672, passed - -)
§ 31.132 FEES FOR SUITS.
   In all suits prosecuted by the Office of the City Attorney, there shall be
assessed a fee of $5 payable to the city.
(1960 Code, § 3.142) (Ord. 2688, passed - -)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Department of Public Works
   
32.001   Department established
   
32.002   Board of Local Improvements
   
32.003   Division of Assessment
   
32.004   Director of Public Works; duties
Historical Preservation Commission
   
32.020   Commission established
Downtown Belleville Development and Redevelopment Commission
   
32.035   Purpose
   
32.036   Commission established
   
32.037   Membership and compensation
   
32.038   Appointment, term, vacancies
   
32.039   Officers, by-laws
   
32.040   Commission powers and duties
   
32.041   Budget
Human Relations Commission
   
32.055   Commission established
   
32.056   Purpose
   
32.057   Definitions
   
32.058   Prohibited practices
   
32.059   Membership
   
32.060   Appointment and terms
   
32.061   Vacancies
   
32.062   Voting
   
32.063   (Reserved)
   
32.064   Organization
   
32.065   Regular meetings
   
32.066   Closed meetings or executive sessions
   
32.067   Duties and authority
   
32.068   Accountability
   
32.069   Annual report
   
32.070   Procedures
   
32.071   Quorum
   
32.072   Duties of the Chair
   
32.073   Duties of the Vice Chair
   
32.074   Duties of the Secretary
   
32.075   Committees
   
32.076   Voting
   
32.077   Fiscal year
   
32.078   Contracts
   
32.079   Indebtedness
   
32.080   Community support and leadership
Library
   
32.095   Established
   
32.096   Board created
   
32.097   Powers and duties
   
32.098   Tax
   
32.099   Injury to books
   
32.100   Failure to return books
   
32.101   Fines, Library Fund
Planning Commission
   
32.115   Membership
   
32.116   Duties, compensation
Playground and Recreation Board
   
32.130   Established
   
32.131   Members
   
32.132   Powers
   
32.133   Officers, duties, elections
   
32.134   Fiscal affairs
   
32.135   Meetings and procedure
   
32.136   Administrative staff
Public Utility Commission
   
32.150   Appointment; purpose
Juvenile Department
   
32.165   Creation
   
32.166   Juvenile Officer
   
32.167   Duties
   
32.168   Supervision
General and Community Assistance Department
   
32.180   Establishment; purpose
   
32.181   Powers and duties
   
32.182   Records
Removal of Appointees
   
32.190   Removal of appointees
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
§ 32.001 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established an executive department of the city, which shall
be known as the Department of Public Works and shall embrace the Board of Local
Improvements, the City Engineer, the Superintendent of Streets and Cemetery and
such assistants and employees as the City Council may provide.
(1960 Code, § 6-1-1) (Ord. 5220, passed 2-7-1994)
§ 32.002 BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS.
   There is hereby established a Board of Local Improvements of the city, which
shall consist of the Mayor, who shall be president of the Board, the City
Engineer and the Superintendent of Streets and Cemetery. The Board is charged
with performing all duties relating to public improvements to be paid wholly or
in part by special assessment or special taxation, as the laws of the state may
prescribe. The City Clerk shall be the Clerk of the Board and keep a correct
and full record of its proceedings.
(1960 Code, § 6-1-2) (Ord. 5220, passed 2-7-1994)
§ 32.003 DIVISION OF ASSESSMENT.
   In all cases where any special assessment, payable in installments, is made
by the city for any local improvement, and the owner of any lot, block or
parcel of land so assessed desired to subdivide the same, and to apportion the
assessment and the several installments thereof in such manner that each
portion or parcel of such proposed subdivision shall bear its just and
equitable portion thereof, the same may be done upon the presentation to the
City Council of a petition setting forth the facts as required by the Illinois
Compiled Statutes, and the payment in advance to the city of a fee of $5 for
one lot or tract and $1 additional for each additional lot or tract included in
the petition to cover the expense of the service of the City Engineer, City
Treasurer and other city officers in checking the petition and figuring the
amounts of installments.
(1960 Code, § 6-1-3) (Ord. 5220, passed 2-7-1994)
§ 32.004 DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS; DUTIES.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Office of Director of Public Works. He or
she shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the
City Council at the first regular meeting of the Council in May of each year.
   (B)   The Director of Public Works shall perform the following duties.
      (1)   Assistants. He or she may employ such assistants and subordinates
as may be necessary or ordered by the Mayor or the City Council.
      (2)   Local improvements. He or she shall superintend and personally
supervise all local improvements in the city and carry into effect all orders
of the City Council in relation thereto. He or she shall superintend and
supervise the opening of streets and the grading, improving and repairing
thereof, the construction and repairing of sidewalks, bridges, culverts and
sewers not tributary to the plant, and the maintenance of city parks.
      (3)   Accounts. He or she shall keep full and accurate accounts, in
appropriate books, of all appropriations made for work pertaining to his or her
office, and all disbursements thereof, specifying to whom made and on what
account.
      (4)   Records. He or she shall keep a record of all tools and other
property in his or her possession belonging to the city, and shall be
responsible for the same, and shall deliver up to his or her successor in
office such records and tools and other property or things, and shall receive
therefor a receipt from his or her successor, which shall be filed with the
City Clerk.
      (5)   Report of obstructions. He or she shall observe and report to the
Mayor and Chief of Police all obstructions and nuisances in and upon any street
or public place.
      (6)   Reports. He or she shall maintain a detailed account of all work
done by him or her or under his or her direction for the previous month. On the
first Monday in May of each year, he or she shall make out and file with the
City Clerk a complete report of all expenditures in his or her department
during the previous year.
(Ord. 8187-2018, passed 4-16-2018)
HISTORICAL PRESERVATION COMMISSION
§ 32.020 COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   A Historic Preservation Commission is hereby established, with the
duty to identify and inventory those areas, places, buildings, structures,
works of art and other objects having special historical, cultural, community
or aesthetic interest or value; to prepare for consideration by the City
Council, such proposed legislation as may be necessary to ensure preservation
and continued utilization of the places and objects so identified; to act as
the designated Commission for public hearings which may be required by law
before adoption of any legislation proposed by the Commission; and to cooperate
with state and national authorities in the identification and preservation of
places and objects of historical, cultural, community or aesthetic interest or
value.
   (B)   (1)   The Commission shall consist of not more than nine members
appointed by the Mayor, subject to confirmation by the City Council, and such
additional non-voting consulting members as the Chair of the Commission may
appoint, and should have a demonstrated interest in preservation.
      (2)   The Commission shall serve without compensation and shall elect a
Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson, Secretary and a Treasurer from its own members,
whose terms of office shall be for one year and until their successors are
elected and have qualified.
      (3)   The Commission shall have power to adopt its own rules of
procedure, and shall meet not less than four times each year, at the call of
the Chairperson.
      (4)   A majority of duly-appointed Commissioners shall constitute a
quorum.
      (5)   The City Council shall make annual appropriations for the payment
of the Commission’s expenses.
(1960 Code, § 9-1-1) (Ord. 3154, passed 7-16-1973; Ord. 5306, passed 9-6-1994;
Ord. 7830, passed 12-16-2014)
DOWNTOWN BELLEVILLE DEVELOPMENT AND REDEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
§ 32.035 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to promote the economic development and
redevelopment of property within the area of the Central Business District of
the city (refer to Map, Exhibit I, attached to the ordinance codified herein).
The detailed power and duties of said Commission shall be set forth in this
subchapter.
(1960 Code, § 9-2-1) (Ord. 5035, passed 3-1-1993)
§ 32.036 COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   The Downtown Belleville Development Commission is hereby established
pursuant to the Home Rule powers of the city.
(1960 Code, § 9-2-2) (Ord. 5035, passed 3-1-1993; Ord. 9093-2022, passed 10-17-
2022)
§ 32.037 MEMBERSHIP AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Commission shall consist of the nine members and shall be composed
of the following classification of members:
      (1)   City officials.
         (a)   The Mayor or his or her representative; and
         (b)   One Alderman selected by the Mayor, with the approval of the
City Council.
      (2)   Appointed members. (Selected by the Mayor, with the approval of the
City Council).
         (a)   Three persons from the downtown business community as identified
in Exhibit I (attached to the ordinance codified herein) boundaries;
         (b)   One person with background in banking or finance;
         (c)   One person with background in commercial real estate;
         (d)   One person with professional/service background (architecture,
engineering, accounting and the like); and
         (e)   One person that resides within the downtown business district or
owns a property within the downtown business district.
   (B)   Each Commission member shall serve without compensation.
(1960 Code, § 9-2-3) (Ord. 5035, passed 3-1-1993; Ord. 8070-2017, passed 7-17-
2017)
§ 32.038 APPOINTMENT, TERM, VACANCIES.
   (A)   The Mayor shall serve on the Commission by virtue of his or her
office. All other Commission members shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
advice and consent of the City Council. Each appointed Commission member shall
hold office for four years and until his or her successor has been selected and
qualified; provided, however, that, at the initial appointment of the
Commission, three members shall be appointed for two-year terms, three members
shall be appointed for four-year terms and two members shall be appointed for
six years.
   (B)   Terms shall be considered by lot. Vacancies on the Commission shall be
filled for the unexpired term of the member whose place has become vacant in
the same manner as provided for the appointment of new members. All Commission
members shall be voting members.
(1960 Code, § 9-2-4) (Ord. 5035, passed 3-1-1993)
§ 32.039 OFFICERS, BY-LAWS.
   The Commission shall select one of its members to act as Chairperson and
shall select such other officers as it deems necessary. The Commission is
hereby authorized to adopt its own by-laws, including provisions relating to
the frequency, place and conduct of its meetings.
(1960 Code, § 9-2-5) (Ord. 5035, passed 3-1-1993)
§ 32.040 COMMISSION POWERS AND DUTIES.
   In its capacity as an advisory board to the City Council, the Commission is
hereby authorized to exercise the powers listed below for the purpose of
promoting the economic development and redevelopment of businesses and property
within the Central Business District of the city:
   (A)   To manage the special service area taxing district(s) within the
boundaries as identified in Exhibit A (attached to the ordinance codified
herein), including determination of continuation, expansion and purpose of the
district;
   (B)   To collect data, prepare informational material, develop plans and
evaluate proposals relating to development activities within the special
service area;
   (C)   To advise the city of the use eminent domain within the special
service area;
   (D)   To acquire, sell, lease, trade, manage or improve real property in
connection with development projects;
   (E)   To support the application of grants for projects within the Central
Business District;
   (F)   To enter into contracts with any public or private agency or person
for the purpose of implementing a development proposal;
   (G)   To employ such persons as may be necessary for planning, administering
and implementing development/marketing projects;
   (H)   To develop and carry out a downtown master plan in accordance with the
city’s Comprehensive Plan;
   (I)   Develop and maintain a marketing package to encourage residential and
commercial growth and redevelopment in the Central Business District;
   (J)   To borrow, and issue revenue bonds with consent of the City Council;
   (K)   To expend funds for the purpose of implementing plans and programs
approved and adopted by the Commission; and
   (L)   Adopt an annual budget with the City Council approval.
(1960 Code, § 9-2-6) (Ord. 5035, passed 3-1-1993; Ord. 7429, passed 9-7-2010)
§ 32.041 BUDGET.
   The Commission shall establish and operate under a yearly budget.
(1960 Code, § 9-2-7) (Ord. 5035, passed 3-1-1993)
HUMAN RELATIONS COMMISSION
§ 32.055 COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a Human Relations Commission for the city.
(1960 Code, § 9-3-1) (Ord. 5837, passed 1-20-1998)
§ 32.056 PURPOSE.
   The city, through the Mayor and the City Council, has determined the
Commission’s purposes as the following.
   (A)   The Commission shall, in cooperation with the Mayor and the City
Council, endeavor to ensure fair and equal treatment under the law for all
citizens, to protect the rights of all persons to enjoy public accommodations
and facilities, to receive equal treatment from all agencies of the city and
from all holders of licenses, contracts and privileges from the city; and to
ensure equality of opportunity for employment and advancement in the city
government.
   (B)   The Commission shall advise and consult with the Mayor, and the
Council as appropriate, in all matters involving prejudice or discrimination
based upon race, gender, religion, ethnic origin, age, marital status,
veteran’s status or disability and recommend such action as it deems
appropriate to eliminate prejudice or discrimination. The Commission shall also
support and initiate activities to address the goals and purpose of the
Commission through education and training workshops.
(1960 Code, § 9-3-2) (Ord. 5837, passed 1-20-1998)
§ 32.057 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGE. Limited to individuals who are at least 40 years of age.
   COMMISSION. The City of Belleville Human Relations Commission.
   CONTRACTOR. Any person who contracts with or proposes to contract with the
city to provide goods and/or services in an amount greater than $10,000 during
the last preceding fiscal year.
   DISCRIMINATE or DISCRIMINATION. In employment, housing, public
accommodations and financing, any difference in treatment based on race, color,
gender, religion, age, ancestry, national origin, marital status, veteran's
status or disability.
   EMPLOYEE. Any and all persons who perform services under the direction and
control of and for any employer for compensation, whether in the form of wages,
salary, commissions or otherwise, excluding the parents, spouses or children of
the employer and excluding independent contractors, although they may be
subject to this subchapter as employers or in any other capacity covered
hereunder.
   EMPLOYER. Any person within the city, including, but not limited to, owners,
managers, supervisors and others who serve supervisory functions, who hires or
employs any employee whose services are to be partially or wholly performed in
the city, but excluding any religious or fraternal corporation, association,
society or organization with respect to the hiring or employment of individuals
from their membership.
   EMPLOYMENT AGENCY. Any person regularly undertaking, with or without
compensation, to procure employees for an employer, to procure for employees
opportunities to work for an employer or to recruit, refer or to place
employees.
   DISABILITY. Any physical or mental impairment resulting from or manifested
by anatomical, psychological, neurological or psychological conditions,
demonstrable by medically-accepted clinical or laboratory diagnostic
techniques, and which constitutes or is regarded as constituting a substantial
limitation to one or more of the person's major life activities. A DISABLED
INDIVIDUAL is one who has a physical or mental disability as defined above, has
a history of such disability or is perceived as having such a DISABILITY.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATIONS. All buildings, structures or any portions thereof,
within the city which are used or occupied, or are maintained, arranged or
designed to be used or occupied as a home, residence or sleeping place for one
or more human beings.
   HUMAN RELATIONS COORDINATOR. The Chair of the Human Relations Commission of
the city whose duties are set forth in this subchapter.
   MARITAL STATUS. The legal status of being married, single, separated,
divorced or widowed.
   PERSON. One or more individuals, partnerships, associations, organizations,
corporations, legal representatives, joint stock companies, mutual companies,
trustees, trustees in bankruptcy, receivers, labor unions or union labor
organizations, and any other incorporated or unincorporated organized group.
The term includes, but is not limited to, any real estate owner, lessor,
assignor, builder, manager, broker, salesperson or agent, any lending
institution, unit, officer, director or employee of any of the above.
   PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. Any business, enterprise or activity consisting of or
involving furnishing, providing or making available to the pubic any goods,
services, accommodations, entertainment, amusements, facilities, advantages or
privileges.
   SEXUAL HARASSMENT. Any sexual discrimination which involves unwelcome sexual
advances, requests for sexual favors and other verbal or physical conduct of a
sexual nature constituting sexual harassment when:
      (1)   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly
a term or condition of employment or in recruiting, training or hiring
employees;
      (2)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
      (3)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering
with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment.
(1960 Code, § 9-3-3) (Ord. 5837, passed 1-20-1998; Am. Ord. 8369-2019, passed
9-17-2019)
§ 32.058 PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   (A)   The Commission recognizes the rights of all person to equal
opportunity in employment, compensation, promotion, education and positions of
leadership, and shall not tolerate discrimination because of race, color,
gender, national origin, age, physical or mental disability, veteran's status
or marital status.
   (B)   Prohibited discriminatory practices in employment, housing, public
accommodations and financing including the following.
      (1)   DISCRIMINATION, as applied under this section, means any difference
in treatment based on race, color, religion, gender, sexual orientation, age,
ancestry, national origin, marital status, veteran's status or physical or
mental disability.
      (2)   It shall be illegal for any person to commit any of the following
acts of discrimination in employment, housing, public accommodations and
financing:
         (a)   Permit to take any action which discriminantly affects a
person's selection, status or eligibility for employment, promotion or
transfer, or for apprenticeship, membership or conditions and privileges or
benefits directly or indirectly related to one's employment;
         (b)   Cause or permit to be published, posted or circulated any
notice, advertisement, job order, requisition or request for applicants for
employment of apprenticeship for the referral thereof which makes or has the
effect of making race, color, religion, veteran's status, gender, sexual
orientation, ancestry, national origin, marital status, age, (as defined
herein) or physical or mental disability a condition of applying for employment
or of referral therefor or indicates the existence of such a condition, except
for a bona fide occupation qualification;
         (c)   For an employer, employment agency or labor organization to
inquire on a written application whether a job applicant has ever been arrested
or to use such knowledge of an arrest as a reason for denial or termination of
employment. This section shall not be construed to prohibit any employer,
employment agency or labor organization from obtaining the record or records
concerning the conviction of any individual;
         (d)   Directly or indirectly discriminate against any person in any
manner in the sale, rental, lease or occupancy of any residential real estate
in the city, specifically relating to, but not limited to, the price, terms,
conditions or privileges of any kind relating thereto or in the furnishing of
any services or facilities in connection therewith, including advertisements
thereof;
         (e)   Refuse to allow, permit or assist any person in the examination
of any listing of real estate or real estate otherwise for sale within the
city, except for non-discriminatory reasons applicable to all persons;
         (f)   Solicit either orally or in writing, or to distribute or cause
to be distributed written material or statements designed to induce any owner
of any housing accommodations in the city, to sell or refuse to sell or lease
his or her property because of any present or prospective change in the race,
color, religion, gender, sexual orientation, ancestry, age, national origin,
marital status, veteran's status or physical or mental disability of persons in
the neighborhood;
         (g)   Refuse to rent, sell or lease any housing accommodations on the
basis of mental or physical disability, including, but not limited to, people
who require guide dogs or service dogs;
         (h)   Require as a condition precedent to the rental of a housing
accommodation that the prospective tenant shall not have, at the time
application for rental is made, one or more children under the age of 14 years
residing in his or her family;
         (i)   Insert in any lease or agreement for the rental of any housing
accommodation a condition terminating the lease if there shall be one or more
children under the age of 14 in the family of any person holding the lease and
occupying the housing accommodation;
         (j)   Discriminate against any person in the full enjoyment of goods,
services, facilities, advantages or privileges of any public accommodation;
and/or
         (k)   Discriminate or to participate directly or indirectly in
discrimination in connection with the terms of loans, guaranteeing loans,
accepting mortgages or otherwise making available funds for loans; provided
that, lending money is one of the principal aspects of the person's business.
(1960 Code, § 9-3-4) (Ord. 5837, passed 1-20-1998; Am. Ord. 8369-2019, passed
9-17-2019)
§ 32.059 MEMBERSHIP.
   The members of the Commission shall reside within a Belleville zip code or
have employment in the city. The members shall reflect a broad diversity of
backgrounds in the areas of race, ethnic groups, gender, sexual orientation,
age, marital status, veteran's status or physical or mental disability. Members
of the Commission are expected to avoid conflict of interest by announcing that
a conflict of interest is present and by abstaining in discussions or voting on
matters that present a conflict of interest. There shall be seven members who
shall serve without compensation. In electing the first members of the
Commission, the Mayor will select names of persons from those solicited from
educational, religious, governmental and the business sector, including other
recognized community organizations or entities. Such solicitation of names
shall also occur subsequent to the first members selected to the Commission
whenever vacancies occur.
(1960 Code, § 9-3-5) (Ord. 5837, passed 1-20-1998; Am. Ord. 8369-2019, passed
9-17-2019; Am. Ord. 8880-2020, passed 10-19-2020; Am. Ord. 9365-2025, passed 1-
21-2025)
§ 32.060 APPOINTMENT AND TERMS.
   The members of the Commission shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with
the consent of the City Council. The terms of the members shall be for two or
three years; except that, appointments may be made for shorter terms to fill
unexpired terms created by vacancies. The initial terms of the members of the
Commission shall be drawn by lot for two- or three-year terms. Terms of service
can be extended when recommended by the Mayor and approved by the City Council.
(1960 Code, § 9-3-6) (Ord. 5837, passed 1-20-1998; Am. Ord. 8369-2019, passed
9-17-2019)
§ 32.061 VACANCIES.
   Vacancies shall be filled by the Mayor, by and with the consent of the City
Council, within 60 days after the vacancy occurs.
(1960 Code, § 9-3-7) (Ord. 5837, passed 1-20-1998)
§ 32.062 VOTING.
   All members of the Commission may vote. In the event of a tie, the Chair
shall abstain from voting in the second round of voting.
(1960 Code, § 9-3-8) (Ord. 5837, passed 1-20-1998)
§ 32.063 (RESERVED)
§ 32.064 ORGANIZATION.
   A Chair, Vice-Chair and a Secretary shall be elected by a majority vote of
the members of the Commission for a term of one year and may be reelected for
one additional term each. The Chair shall receive no salary. A Treasurer will
be elected only if necessary and may also serve for one term with reelection
for one term.
(1960 Code, § 9-3-10) (Ord. 5837, passed 1-20-1998)
§ 32.065 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   All meetings shall be accessible to the public as required by law and will
normally be held at City Hall. Optional venues can be considered, as long as
sufficient public notification occurs and the venues are known and accessible
to all. Special meetings may be called by the Chair of the Commission by giving
notice of the time and place of such meeting to all Commissioners, to the news
media as required by law, not fewer than ten days prior to such meetings. The
Chair of the Commission shall call meetings of the Commission for purposes as
determined by the Commission that could include the need to address
organizational and procedural matters and/or to address complaints, and with
notice published by the Chair as required by law.
(1960 Code, § 9-3-11) (Ord. 5837, passed 1-20-1998; Am. Ord. 8369-2019, passed
9-17-2019)
§ 32.066 CLOSED MEETINGS OR EXECUTIVE SESSIONS.
   Should the Commission find it necessary to meet in closed session or in an
executive session that is closed in accordance with state law, members of the
Commission have a duty to keep all matters brought before the Commission
confidential until such time as the Chair of the Commission shall make public
information relative to a confidential matter.
(1960 Code, § 9-3-12) (Ord. 5837, passed 1-20-1998)
§ 32.067 DUTIES AND AUTHORITY.
   It shall be the duty and authority of the Commission to:
   (A)   Conduct research, publish and utilize studies in the field of
intergroup relations and to develop and implement procedures to educate the
community, equalize opportunities, eliminate discrimination and promote good
will among all persons;
   (B)   Receive and record any complaint alleging discrimination against any
person because of race, color, religion, gender, sexual orientation, national
origin, marital status, veteran's status, ancestry, age or physical or mental
disability in violation of this subchapter;
   (C)   Seek to resolve conflicts between persons involved in complaints which
are within the jurisdiction of the Commission by specifically authorizing the
Chair and Vice-Chair at a regular or special meeting to investigate particular
complaints to determine if there is probable cause to believe a violation of
this subchapter has occurred. If the Chair determines from the investigation of
a complaint that there is probable cause to believe a violation has occurred,
the Commission may authorize the Chair to give notice to all parties that a
closed conciliators conference will be held by impartial conciliators' who have
been approved and appointed by the Commission. At the conciliation conference,
an attempt shall be made to resolve the conflict between the parties by
formulating a written agreement to eliminate the discriminatory situation which
may be found to exist;
   (D)   If neither the fact finding, nor conciliation, phase produces a
settlement between the complainant and the respondent, the Commission shall
make its own determination in the case in light of the evidence before it and
shall submit its report in writing to the appropriate city, state or Federal
agency or national organization with the recommendation that appropriate action
be taken;
   (E)   Recommend to the appropriate agency or person legislative,
administrative, legal or other ameliorative action to be taken to eliminate
discrimination and foster good will;
   (F)   Invite and enlist the cooperation of any citizen, organization or
committee which can be of benefit in fulfilling the responsibilities of the
Commission in carrying out specific programs designed to lessen conflicts and
in improving understanding in the community;
   (G)   Adopt such rules of procedure and regulations as may be deemed
necessary to conduct its meetings, conciliation conferences and general
operations and to carry out the purposes and provisions of this subchapter.
Such rules of procedure and regulations shall be in written form, shall be
submitted to the Mayor and City Council for review and comment and shall be
approved by a majority of the members of the Commission;
   (H)   Cooperate and assist, at its discretion, any person who requests such
cooperation or assistance for the purpose of developing or maintaining
affirmative action programs;
   (I)   Prepare and submit annually to the Mayor and City Council, at or
shortly after the end of each fiscal year, a report of its activities during
such fiscal year; and
   (J)   May refer individuals and information to other agencies or persons
when appropriate.
(1960 Code, § 9-3-13) (Ord. 5837, passed 1-20-1998; Am. Ord. 8369-2019, passed
9-17-2019)
§ 32.068 ACCOUNTABILITY.
   The Commission shall report its recommendations and activities to the Mayor
and/or the City Council upon the request of the Mayor. The Commission, not
receiving such a request, shall report its recommendations at least annually.
The Commission, and any subcommittees it may appoint, shall keep minutes and
information concerning the activities of the Commission and shall be available
to the City Council and the public through the Mayor or the Chair of the
Commission upon request.
(1960 Code, § 9-3-14) (Ord. 5837, passed 1-20-1998)
§ 32.069 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Commission shall, not less than annually, report to the Mayor and the
City Council its activities and recommendations. The Mayor’s staff or secretary
shall assist the Chair of the Commission in producing reports and documents.
The annual report shall be due July 1 each year.
(1960 Code, § 9-3-15) (Ord. 5837, passed 1-20-1998)
§ 32.070 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Should the Mayor, the City Council (either as a body or as
individuals), appointive city officers or members of the Human Relations
Commission (either as a body or as individuals) receive a written and signed
statement alleging that a prohibited practice, as defined herein, has occurred
within the city, the Chair and Vice-Chair shall investigate the matter to
ascertain that the allegation is substantive. In doing so, they shall keep the
matter confidential until they have determined either that there is no
foundation in fact for the allegation or determined that it should be forwarded
to the Human Relations Commission for deliberation and/or action. If the Chair
and Vice-Chair determine that there is no basis for the allegation, the
complaining party will be notified in writing.
   (B)   Upon determining that the allegation has the probability of being a
prohibited practice, the Chair shall inform the members of the Commission. The
Chair shall determine whether the matter will be reviewed in a closed meeting
or open meeting and shall inform the members of the Commission of his or her
decision. All deliberations and findings of the Commission shall be held
confidential until the Chair of the Commission, in consultation with the
Commission and Mayor, has determined that the information may be released to
the public.
(1960 Code, § 9-3-16) (Ord. 5837, passed 1-20-1998)
§ 32.071 QUORUM.
   The Chair shall conduct the meetings in accord with Robert’s “Rules of Order
Revised.” Four of seven members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction
of business. The Commission may consult with the City Attorney as appropriate.
(1960 Code, § 9-3-17) (Ord. 5837, passed 1-20-1998; Am. Ord. 9365-2025, passed
1-21-2025)
§ 32.072 DUTIES OF THE CHAIR.
   (A)   The Chair shall preside over all meetings and shall supervise the
activities and duties of the Commission and shall preside over all meetings.
   (B)   The Chair shall have the following additional duties:
      (1)   Execute the policies of Commission and set the agenda for meetings;
      (2)   Prepare written plans for the achievement of the Commission’s
purposes and duties. Periodically review and evaluate such plans;
      (3)   Select and supervise any subcommittees which the Commission may
appoint;
      (4)   Attend Committee meetings and serve as an ex-officio member of each
committee appointed;
      (5)   Call and conduct executive committee meetings;
      (6)   Perform such other duties as may from time to time be assigned by
the Mayor, City Council or Commission;
      (7)   Ensure that the Commission executes its duties as outlined herein;
and
      (8)   Prepare reports and documents as requested and outlined herein.
(1960 Code, § 9-3-18) (Ord. 5837, passed 1-20-1998)
§ 32.073 DUTIES OF THE VICE-CHAIR.
   The Vice-Chair shall perform such duties and responsibilities as may be
prescribed from time to time by the Chair. The Vice-Chair shall be a member of
the executive committee and shall preside over meetings when the Chair is
absent.
(1960 Code, § 9-3-19) (Ord. 5837, passed 1-20-1998)
§ 32.074 DUTIES OF THE SECRETARY.
   The Secretary shall keep the minutes of the meetings and send appropriate
notices for all meetings. The Secretary shall prepare materials for all
meetings with assistance and direction from the Chair. The Secretary shall
submit a copy of all minutes, records and reports of all meetings to the
members of the Commission and the Mayor. The Secretary is a member of the
executive committee and shall perform such other duties as are customarily
requested or required of a secretary of appointed committees or commissions.
(1960 Code, § 9-3-20) (Ord. 5837, passed 1-20-1998)
§ 32.075 COMMITTEES.
   The Commission may appoint committees as it deems necessary. Committees may
be appointed which focus on employment, youth education, complaints and
compliance, housing and policies, among others deemed appropriate. The Chair
shall utilize an executive committee which shall include the Vice-Chair,
Secretary, subcommittee chairs (if any) and others deemed appropriate by the
Chair. Any special committees deemed appropriate may be appointed by the Chair.
Upon completion of specially assigned tasks, the special committee will be
discharged.
(1960 Code, § 9-3-21) (Ord. 5837, passed 1-20-1998)
§ 32.076 VOTING.
   (A)   A majority of the members of each committee shall constitute a quorum.
Each subcommittee may adopt rules of its own.
   (B)   The Chair of each subcommittee or special committee shall be a voting
member.
(1960 Code, § 9-3-22) (Ord. 5837, passed 1-20-1998)
§ 32.077 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the Commission shall begin on May 1 each year and end on
April 30 of each year.
(1960 Code, § 9-3-23) (Ord. 5837, passed 1-20-1998)
§ 32.078 CONTRACTS.
   The Commission may by specific action authorize the Chair or other officer
to recommend to the Mayor and the City Council to enter into any contract or
execute and deliver any instrument in the name of and on behalf of the
Commission.
(1960 Code, § 9-3-24) (Ord. 5837, passed 1-20-1998)
§ 32.079 INDEBTEDNESS.
   No expenditures shall be made and no indebtedness shall be incurred by the
Commission, except upon authorization of the Mayor and the City Council and the
city.
(1960 Code, § 9-3-25) (Ord. 5837, passed 1-20-1998)
§ 32.080 COMMUNITY SUPPORT AND LEADERSHIP.
   (A)   The Commission is encouraged to support the community activities
relative to multi- culturalism and cultural diversity.
   (B)   The Commission shall, when called upon or when appropriate, provide
leadership for such activities as those identified below:
      (1)   Assist with the coordination of multi-cultural fairs and special
diversity events with the city and surrounding communities;
      (2)   Assist agencies, institutions, churches and other organizations as
they develop programs to increase understanding, tolerance and inclusiveness;
      (3)   Assist with the formation and conduct of public forums or other
avenues for multi- racial and multi-ethnic dialogue;
      (4)   Support and encourage leadership among racial, ethnic and other
minority groups;
      (5)   Assist with the formation of other commissions in neighboring
communities; and
      (6)   Develop fund raising plans and seek grants or other sources of
revenue to support multi-cultural activities.
(1960 Code, § 9-3-26) (Ord. 5837, passed 1-20-1998)
LIBRARY
§ 32.095 ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a free public library and reading room for the
use and benefit of the citizens of the city, which shall be called the
Belleville Public Library.
(1960 Code, § 3.25)
§ 32.096 BOARD CREATED.
   The Mayor with the approval of the City Council shall appoint a board of
nine directors, who shall be chosen from the citizens at large with respect to
their fitness for such office. One member of the City Council shall be a member
of the Board.
(1960 Code, § 3.25)
§ 32.097 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Directors shall hold office, have such powers and perform such
duties as are prescribed by the Illinois Revised Statutes governing such
bodies.
(1960 Code, § 3.25)
§ 32.098 TAX.
   (A)   In order to maintain the library and reading room, a tax not to exceed
nine-tenths of a mill on the dollar may be levied annually.
   (B)   Such tax shall be levied and collected in like manner and in addition
to the general rate and to be known as the Library Fund.
(1960 Code, § 3.25) (Ord. 1592, passed - -)
§ 32.099 INJURY TO BOOKS.
   No person shall willfully or maliciously write upon, deface, tear or destroy
any book, newspaper, plate picture, engraving or statue or piece of furniture
belonging to the Belleville Public Library.
(1960 Code, § 3.25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.100 FAILURE TO RETURN BOOKS.
   No person shall fail to return any book belonging to the library in the time
and manner required by the library regulations.
(1960 Code, § 3.25) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.101 FINES, LIBRARY FUND.
   All fines collected under the provisions of this subchapter shall be paid
into the City Treasury and shall be credited by the City Treasurer to the
Library Fund and be kept as part of such Fund.
(1960 Code, § 3.25)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.115 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   There is hereby created a City Planning Commission to consist of nine
voting members appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City
Council, two members of which shall be Aldermen. The term of office of members
shall be three years or until a successor is appointed; except that, the terms
of the members first appointed shall be so fixed that no more than three
members shall be so reappointed or replaced. In the event of vacancies, the
Mayor shall appoint with City Council consent and approval a replacement to
fill the unexpired term members whose terms have expired shall hold office
until their successors have been duly-appointed. All members of the Commission
shall reside within the corporate limits of the city or within one and one-half
mile planning area excluding territory within the corporate limits of any other
municipality, community or village.
   (B)   The City Engineer, Director of Planning and Development and the
Building and Zoning Commissioner shall serve as non-voting ex-officio members
of the Commission and shall provide technical input and advice on matters.
(1960 Code, § 3.26) (Ord. 5344, passed 12-5-1994; Ord. 8070-2017, passed 7-17-
2017)
§ 32.116 DUTIES, COMPENSATION.
   It shall be the duty of the City Planning Commission to consider a city plan
for the city, and matters in regard to future growth, zoning, planning, traffic
and the like in the city, and to make reports and recommendations to the City
Council from time to time as occasion warrants. The Commission shall make no
expenditure, except after appropriation by the Council, and it shall be
optional with the Council whether or not to make appropriation in any year for
the Commission. The Commissioners shall serve without compensation and shall
not be interested in any contracts with the city, directly or indirectly. Any
Planning Commission member that misses three consecutive meetings of the
Planning Commission shall forfeit his or her office as a member of the Planning
Commission.
(1960 Code, § 3.26) (Ord. 5998, passed 7-6-1999; Ord. 8070-2017, passed 7-17-
2017)
PLAYGROUND AND RECREATION BOARD
§ 32.130 ESTABLISHED.
   A playground and recreation system shall be established, conducted and
maintained in the city.
(1960 Code, § 3.27)
§ 32.131 MEMBERS.
   The establishment, conduct and maintenance of the playground and recreation
system shall be under the jurisdiction of a Playground and Recreation Board
consisting of five members, appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the City
Council. The members of the Board shall serve without compensation. Terms of
members of the Board shall be for five years; except that, the members of the
Board first appointed shall be appointed for such terms that the term of one
member shall expire annually thereafter. If a vacancy occurs in the office of
any member, the Mayor shall appoint a successor to serve the unexpired term.
(1960 Code, § 3.27)
§ 32.132 POWERS.
   The Playground and Recreation Board shall exercise all the powers and
responsibilities, not reserved to the Council, as set forth in the 65 ILCS 5/
11-95-1 to 11-95-10, inclusive. The object in exercise of the powers and
responsibilities of the above statute shall be achieved so far as possible by
providing a staff of employees trained in public recreation and leisure-time
activities for children, young people, men and women in all walks of life;
conducting a program, making use of the physical properties available in the
community and surrounding territory; offering leadership in coordinating and
correlating all those activities of a similar nature in the community to obtain
maximum benefit to the citizens of the city; building the public recreation
program into and about the public schools and public parks and by identifying
it with all public and private organizations having to do with public welfare,
education, family relations and juvenile delinquency; focusing public
attention, constantly upon the need of adequate provision for year-round
healthful recreation of all; solicitation and encouragement of gifts of money
and property for the benefit of the community recreation program, but if the
acceptance thereof for such purposes shall subject the city to expense for
improvements, maintenance or renewals, the acceptance of any grant or devise of
real estate shall be subject to the approval of the Council.
(1960 Code, § 3.27) (Ord. 3823, passed 9-8-1981)
§ 32.133 OFFICERS, DUTIES, ELECTIONS.
   The officers shall consist of a President, Vice-President and Secretary. The
City Treasurer shall, by virtue of his or her office, be the Treasurer of the
Board. The Secretary or Treasurer need not be a member of the Board. Two
members of the Board shall serve as a standing Finance Committee. The elective
officers of the Board shall be elected annually at the stated meeting of the
Board in the month of May and shall serve until their successors are elected.
Vacancies in the elective offices of the Board may be filled for the unexpired
term at a stated or special meeting of the Board. The Board shall adopt an
administrative manual with such rules, by-laws and regulations as it may deem
proper for the conduct of its work.
(1960 Code, § 3.27) (Ord. 3823, passed 9-8-1981)
§ 32.134 FISCAL AFFAIRS.
   (A)   The fiscal year of the Board shall conform to the fiscal year of the
city. The Board shall, prior to the adoption of annual budget ordinance by the
Council each year, submit appropriate budgets as a request to the Council to
levy and collect a playground and recreation tax, and any other requests for
fund assistance, required by law. The proceeds of the playground and recreation
tax and any funds coming into the Board for playground and recreation purposes,
shall be held by the City Treasurer, required by law, and paid out by him or
her only with the approval of the Board on vouchers signed by the President or
Vice-President and Secretary of the Board.
   (B)   The City Treasurer shall, by virtue of his or her office, prepare an
annual report in writing, which report shall show receipts from taxes and from
other sources as a financial statement due prior to September 1.
(1960 Code, § 3.27) (Ord. 3823, passed 9-8-1981)
§ 32.135 MEETINGS AND PROCEDURE.
   Special meetings of the Board shall be held on the call of the President. At
the request of any two members of the Board, the President shall call a special
meeting; notice of such meeting and the purpose thereof shall be given all
members of the Board at least 24 hours in advance and the business transacted
at such special meeting shall be limited to that contained in such notice,
except when all members of the Board attend such special meeting, any business
may be transacted. A quorum shall consist of a majority of the Board.
(1960 Code, § 3.27)
§ 32.136 ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF.
   The administrative staff of the Board shall consist of a Director of Parks
and Recreation, and such other employees as shall be deemed necessary. The
Director of Parks and Recreation shall be a specially trained and qualified to
organize and direct recreation and leisure-time activities of a public nature.
Other employees shall be employed by the Board, upon recommendation of the
Director of Parks and Recreation. The Director of Parks and Recreation shall be
the chief administrative officer of the Board and shall be responsible for the
program of the Board and for the proper discharge of their respective duties
for all other employees. He or she may also serve as Secretary of the Board.
(1960 Code, § 3.27) (Ord. 3823, passed 9-8-1981)
PUBLIC UTILITY COMMISSION
§ 32.150 APPOINTMENT; PURPOSE.
   The Mayor, with the consent and approval of the City Council, shall appoint
a city’s Public Utility Commission consisting of five citizens of the city, at
least two of the members thereof to be members of the City Council. The purpose
of the city’s Public Utility Commission shall be to receive complaints and
grievances of citizens against any alleged unfair treatment, excessive charges,
poor service or any other complaints against utility companies.
(1960 Code, § 3.28) (Ord. 2285, passed - -)
JUVENILE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.165 CREATION.
   There is hereby created the Office of Juvenile Department and the head of
the Department shall be known as the Juvenile Officer.
(1960 Code, § 3.32)
§ 32.166 JUVENILE OFFICER.
   The Juvenile Officer shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the
consent of the City Council, and the Board of Police and Fire Commissioners of
the city.
(1960 Code, § 3.32)
§ 32.167 DUTIES.
   The Juvenile Officer shall have charge of all juveniles either in the police
station or in any penal institution of the city, and his or her duties shall be
as follows.
   (A)   He or she shall make investigations on all matters referred by the
city’s Police Department wherein juvenile subjects are involved.
   (B)   He or she shall complete all papers required by the Twentieth Judicial
Circuit Court, St. Clair County, Juvenile Division, for and in the processing
of juvenile subjects brought before that court by the Juvenile Department.
   (C)   He or she shall investigate all reports received by the city’s Police
Department or the Juvenile Department involving the desertion or neglect of
minor children and make reports thereon to the Chief Probation Officer of the
Twentieth Judicial Circuit Court, St. Clair County, Illinois.
   (D)   He or she shall process all juvenile subjects and maintain records on
all juvenile subjects.
   (E)   He or she shall prosecute all juvenile offenders when, in his or her
discretion, such prosecution is necessary, and further, shall prosecute parents
when, in the opinion of the Juvenile Officer, such prosecution is warranted.
   (F)   He or she shall maintain liaison between the county’s Probation
Office, and the city’s Police Department and the city’s Juvenile Department.
   (G)   He or shall direct the Police Matron to assist him or her in all
investigations involving female juvenile subjects and shall direct her to keep
all papers necessary in the processing of all female subjects.
(1960 Code, § 3.32)
§ 32.168 SUPERVISION.
   The Juvenile Officer shall be under the direct supervision and control of
the Chief of Police of the city and further shall be subject to executive
directives of the office of the Mayor of the city. He or she shall be subject
to 24-hour call, but during off-duty hours shall be called only when necessary
to process a juvenile offender. Interrogation of juvenile offenders shall not
in itself be considered as necessary in regard to this provision concerning
off-duty call. The Juvenile Officer, as to the detention of a juvenile subject,
shall have such authority as may be conferred upon him or her by the Juvenile
Court Act, being 705 ILCS 405.
(1960 Code, § 3.32) (Ord. 2640, passed - -; Ord. 2877, passed - -)
GENERAL AND COMMUNITY ASSISTANCE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.180 ESTABLISHMENT; PURPOSE.
   There is hereby established a General and Community Assistance Department
that shall be administered by the Director of Human Resources and Community
Development for the purpose of providing general and community assistance to
city residents in need, in express recognition of the dissolution of Belleville
Township as of 11:59 p.m., May 15, 2017.
(Ord. 8047-2017, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 32.181 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Effective May 16, 2017, pursuant to Section 28-15 of the Illinois Township
Code (60 ILCS 1/28-15), the city shall exercise all duties and responsibilities
of the Belleville Township officers as provided in the Township Code, the
Property Tax Code, and the Illinois Public Aid Code, including but not limited
to the provision of funds to and administration of the public aid program
provided for under Article VI thereof under Section 12-3.1 of the Illinois
Public Aid Code (305 ILCS 5/12-3.1). The city may employ such staff as
necessary to effectively provide general and community assistance to city
residents in need. Pursuant to Section 28-20 of the Illinois Township Code (60
ILCS 1/28-20), the city may close up all unfinished business of Belleville
Township and sell and dispose of any of the property belonging to Belleville
Township for benefit of the inhabitants of the city.
(Ord. 8047-2017, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 32.182 RECORDS.
   Effective May 16, 2017, the records of Belleville Township, a township
organization discontinued under this subchapter, shall be deposited in the City
Clerk's office pursuant to Section 28-20 of the Illinois Township Code (60 ILCS
1/28-20). Thereafter, the City Clerk, in conjunction with the Director of Human
Resources and Community Development, shall maintain all records concerning the
General and Community Assistance Department.
(Ord. 8047-2017, passed 5-15-2017)
REMOVAL OF APPOINTEES
§ 32.190 REMOVAL OF APPOINTEES.
   The Mayor may remove any person appointed by him or her under §§
32.020,
32.038,
32.060,
32.096,
32.115,
32.131,
32.150 and/or
32.166 of this chapter.
(Ord. 8958-2021, passed 6-21-2021)
CHAPTER 33: PUBLIC SAFETY; LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
33.001   Burglar and fire alarm systems
Police Department
   
33.015   Department established
   
33.016   Appointment of Police Chief, Assistant Chief of Police and members
   
33.017   Duties of Chief of Police
   
33.018   Assistant Chief of Police
   
33.019   Rules for Department
   
33.020   Police manual
   
33.021   Uniforms
   
33.022   Duties of police officers
   
33.023   Power of search
   
33.024   Auxiliary police officers
   
33.025   Police Marshal
   
33.026   Police Pension Fund
   
33.027   Work period
   
33.028   Dispatch Call Center
Fire Department
   
33.040   Department established
   
33.041   Appointment of Fire Chief and members
   
33.042   Deputy Fire Chief
   
33.043   Duties of Fire Chief
   
33.044   Obstructing Fire Chief
   
33.045   Manuals adopted
   
33.046   Fire stations
   
33.047   Duties of firefighters
   
33.048   Firemen’s Pension Fund
   
33.049   Non-emergency medical assistance fee
Bureau of Fire Prevention
   
33.060   Bureau of Fire Prevention
   
33.061   Investigation and report of fires
   
33.062   Record of fires
   
33.063   Inspections
   
33.064   Order to remove hazard
   
33.065   Access to premises
   
33.066   Assistance of City Attorney
   
33.067   School fire drills
   
33.068   Permits for flammables, explosives and other hazardous materials
   
33.069   Annual reports
   
33.070   Forms and reports
   
33.071   Use of fire hydrants
Fire Code and Safety Provisions
   
33.085   Fire Code adopted
   
33.086   Mutual aid box alarm system established
   
33.087   Key lock box system
Administrative Procedure for Assessing and Determining Claims Under PSEBA
   
33.101   Purpose
   
33.102   (Reserved)
   
33.103   Application procedure
   
33.104   Administrative composition
   
33.105   Administrative hearing
   
33.106   Certification of any continuing eligibility
   
33.107   Health insurance benefits
 
   
33.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.001 BURGLAR AND FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS.
   (A)   The existing burglary, robbery and fire alarm systems connected to the
city’s Police Department for monitoring shall be connected to a central board
owned and operated by the city, within 60 days after the acquisition by the
city of such a central control board.
   (B)   An electric or control system covering fire, robbery and burglary
alarm devices connected with the Police Department of the city shall only be
installed in business or public establishments and with the prior permission of
the City Council. No automatic telephone dial or radio alarms which are
designed to call the city’s Police Department shall be permitted in the city.
Any corporation, person or individual servicing, installing or permitting the
servicing or installation of an automatical telephone dial or radio alarm
system in the city shall be assessed a fine of $500. A separate offense shall
be deemed committed on each day a violation occurs. Corporations, persons or
individuals already having an automatic telephone dial or radio alarm system
installed shall have six months from the effective date of this section to
remove same.
   (C)   Any corporation, person or individual servicing or installing a
burglary, robbery or fire alarm system in any commercial, institutional or
industrial establishment within the city shall first submit a proposed
installation plan to the Chief of Police and to the Chief of the Fire
Department, and such system to be connected to the city-owned electric control
board. Any such system proposed shall comply with all the rules and regulations
for fire prevention and safety as established by the state’s Department of
Public Safety, as they are presently established or as they are, from time to
time, amended.
   (D)   The installation of any such alarm on any premises in the city shall
be installed under the supervision of the Chief of Police and the Chief of the
Fire Department.
   (E)   The Chief of Police and the Chief of the Fire Department are hereby
empowered to enforce the provisions of this section to the end that the said
system may be unified and operated through the city-owned control board.
   (F)   The City Council shall decide all questions arising as to the use and
operation of such systems, through the city-owned electric control board.
   (G)   Before permission is granted to any corporation, person or individual
for the installation of a burglary, robbery or fire alarm system, or
combination thereof, he, she or it shall pay to the City Clerk the sum of $100,
constituting a connection fee for such system.
   (H)   The above connection fee hereby established shall be for the purpose
of defraying the cost of supervising the installation of the fire, robbery and
burglary alarm control systems to the city-owned central control board. The
actual cost of installation shall be borne by the corporation, person or
individual installing same and connecting it to the city-owned central control
board.
   (I)   Any corporation, person or individual requesting permission to install
a system through the city-owned electric control board shall be advised in
writing by the City Clerk that the city assumes no liability whatsoever for the
proper installation or maintenance of the system so installed, and shall be
further advised in writing that the city assumes no liability whatsoever for
the malfunctioning of any such system. The city’s only obligation shall be to
monitor any alarms sounded through its central control board, and to respond to
such alarms in the manner such alarms are usually responded to by either the
Police or Fire Departments of the city.
   (J)   In addition to the connection fee as hereinbefore established, the
City Clerk shall collect a fee of $50 per annum from the corporation, person or
individual connecting any such burglary, robbery or fire alarm system to the
central control board owned and operated by the city. Such fees shall be
collected annually at the beginning of each fiscal year. Any corporation, firm
or individual connecting any such system to the city-owned central control
board after May l of any given year shall pay the sum of $5 per month, based
upon the remaining months of the year, and such sum to be paid in advance for
the remainder of the year.
   (K)   Any corporation, person or individual already having installed a
system through the city-owned electric control board shall not change from one
alarm system to another without prior permission of the City Council. Any
corporation, person or individual already having installed a system through the
city-owned electric control board who wishes to disconnect same shall give
written notification to the City Clerk prior to disconnection. Thereafter, any
corporation, person or individual shall be permitted to reconnect only with
prior permission of the City Council and the payment of a new connection fee.
(1960 Code, § 3.33) (Ord. 2870, passed - -; Ord. 3394, passed 10-18-1976)
Penalty, see §
33.999
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.015 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   It is hereby established that the Department of the municipal government
shall be known as the Police Department and which shall consist of the
following ranking officers: Chief of Police, Assistant Chief of Police,
Captain, Lieutenant of Police, Sergeant and patrol officers.
(1960 Code, § 4.01) (Ord. 6805, passed 12-19-2005)
§ 33.016 APPOINTMENT OF POLICE CHIEF, ASSISTANT CHIEF OF POLICE AND MEMBERS.
   (A)   All members of the Police Department, with the exception of the Police
Chief and Assistant Chief of Police, are hereby declared subject to the
provisions of the 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1.1 et seq. The Board of Fire and Police
Commissioners shall appoint all members of the Police Department in accordance
with the above statute.
   (B)   (1)   All original appointments to the Police Department under and in
accordance with the rules and regulations of the Board of Fire and Police
Commissioners shall be for a probationary period of one year.
      (2)   At the expiration of such probationary period, such appointment to
the Police Department shall automatically become permanent; provided, however,
that, the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners may, at any time during the
probationary period, discharge such appointee after notice and assignment of
cause for removal therefrom.
   (C)   (1)   The Mayor is authorized to appoint, suspend or discharge the
Police Chief and Assistant Chief of Police with the consent of the City
Council.
      (2)   In the event the Mayor discharges the Police Chief and Assistant
Chief of Police, he or she shall revert to his or her permanent rank, if any,
as the Police Department has established under the Fire and Police Commission
Act, being 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1.
(1960 Code, § 4.02) (Ord. 6759, passed 7-18-2005)
§ 33.017 DUTIES OF CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police shall perform the following duties.
   (A)   Management of Department. He or she shall make such disposition of the
police force as the public good may require. He or she shall be held
responsible to the Mayor for the efficiency and good conduct of the force under
his or her command; and he or she shall be governed in the discharge of his or
her duties by the lawful commands of the Mayor.
   (B)   Duties. He or she shall execute all writs or other process issued by
justices of the peace or police magistrates in city cases, collect all fines,
forfeitures and penalties which may accrue to the city, remove all nuisances
and do and perform all duties which may be enjoined upon him or her by
ordinance or resolution of the Council.
   (C)   Ex-officio License Inspector. The Chief of Police is hereby designated
as ex-officio Inspector of Licenses and it shall be his or her duty as such
Inspector of Licenses to ascertain whether persons carrying on the business,
occupations and pursuits required to be licensed have obtained necessary
licenses. It shall be the further duty of the Inspector of Licenses to make
inspection of the businesses, occupations and pursuits for which licenses are
required, investigate complaints of violations with license ordinances and file
charges against persons violating any of the license ordinances.
   (D)   Preserve peace and quiet. He or she shall cause the public peace and
quiet to be preserved, and shall see that all the laws and ordinances of the
city are enforced and complied with, and whenever any violation of the
ordinances shall come to his or her knowledge, he or she shall make, or cause
to be made, the requisite complaint before some justice of the peace or police
magistrate of the city and prosecute the offender for such violation and he or
she shall attend to procuring the evidence for the city.
   (E)   Attend suits. He or she shall attend all suits before the justices of
the peace and police magistrates of the city, to which the city is a party, on
behalf of the city and, if necessary, shall call upon the City Attorney to
direct the prosecution of the offender.
   (F)   Attend Council meetings. He or she shall attend all meetings of the
Council, shall notify each Alderman of any special meeting of the Council which
may be called. He or she shall keep the key to the rooms of the Council, and
shall keep said rooms in proper order and condition for the meetings and other
business of the Council and Mayor.
(1960 Code, § 4.03)
§ 33.018 ASSISTANT CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created the Office of Assistant Chief of
Police, which office shall have the following duties.
      (1)   The Assistant Chief of Police shall be second in command of the
Police Force of the city, and, in the absence of the Chief of Police from the
city or during other periods of the Chief of Police’s absence, shall assume all
the duties herein before imposed by this chapter upon the Chief of Police.
      (2)   His or her hours of duty shall be fixed by the Chief of Police.
      (3)   The Assistant Chief of Police shall be subject to the orders of the
Chief of Police and the Mayor.
   (B)   Salary. There shall be allowed and paid to the Assistant Chief of
Police an annual salary as provided in the budget ordinance which shall be paid
in equal semi-monthly installments.
   (C)   Reversion of rank. Whomever has been appointed to perform the duties
of Assistant Chief of Police, and shall be subsequently relieved of those
duties, or the office abolished, shall revert to the rank he or she held before
his or her appointment to that office, if any, subject to the rules of the Fire
and Police Commissioners Act.
(1960 Code, § 4.035) (Ord. 6759, passed 7-18-2005)
§ 33.019 RULES FOR DEPARTMENT.
   The Mayor and Chief of Police are hereby authorized and required to make all
needful rules and regulations not inconsistent with the laws of the state or
the ordinances of the city, for the government and control of the Police
Department, with the view, to making this Department, and all officers and
members appointed under it, efficient, vigilant, prompt and useful to the city.
All rules and regulations made in pursuance hereof shall be in writing, signed
by the Mayor, and filed in the office of the City Clerk, and shall be binding
on all persons connected with the Police Department.
(1960 Code, § 4.04)
§ 33.020 POLICE MANUAL.
   The Manual hereto attached, entitled, Manual, Police Department, Belleville,
Illinois, is hereby adopted as the rules and regulations governing the
operation of the Police Department of the city, together with Ord. 2503.
(1960 Code, § 4.05) (Ord. 3260, passed 11-19-1974)
§ 33.021 UNIFORMS.
   (A)   Each member of the police force shall be uniformed as prescribed by
the Mayor and Chief of Police. Officers shall furnish their own revolver and
other articles needed in the service.
   (B)   Each member of the police force shall appear in uniform at all times
while on duty. He or she shall be considered on duty whenever he or she appears
upon the streets or other public places of the city.
(1960 Code, § 4.06)
§ 33.022 DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Execution of duties. It shall be the duty of police officers to obey
punctually and to the best of their ability all the orders of their superiors
in the Department and to remain at their posts during the time prescribed as
the hours of duty, and not to leave the same, except in discharge of their
duties. They shall, to the best of their ability, preserve peace, order and
quiet at and in the vicinity of their posts, and they shall be active and
vigilant in the discharge of their duties, and shall watch the conduct of
persons of known or suspected bad character.
   (B)   Arrest. A police officer shall arrest without warrant or process any
person found committing any offense against any law of the state or any
ordinance of the city, or found aiding or abetting the commission of any such
offense. He or she shall arrest or report all persons found throwing filth,
dirt or rubbish in any street, alley or public place in the city.
   (C)   Entering public places. Police officers on duty shall not enter any
house of ill-fame, or any house or place of amusement, except in the immediate
discharge of their duties.
   (D)   Gratuities. No police officer shall accept from any person while in
custody or after such person has been discharged, or from any other person for
or on his or her account, any gratuity or reward.
   (E)   Absence. No police officer shall leave the city without permission
from his or her superior officer.
(1960 Code, § 4.07) (Ord. 2529, passed - -)
§ 33.023 POWER OF SEARCH.
   Whenever any person is arrested and confined to the city jail, it shall be
the duty of the officer in charge to search and take from the person so
committed all valuables, money, watches and all articles of personal property,
and make a full and correct list or inventory of the same in a book to be kept
for that purpose. The list or inventory shall be witnessed by the officer
making the arrest or by some other credible person. Such property shall be
retained by the officer until such person is discharged or committed to prison
by the magistrate or court, when it shall be his or her duty to turn the
property over to the person if he or she is discharged; and, if not, then to
the officer taking such person to the county jail or other prison, to be
delivered with the prisoner to the proper authorities. He or she shall take a
receipt from the person to whom he or she delivers the property.
(1960 Code, § 4.08)
§ 33.024 AUXILIARY POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   General. There is hereby created a unit of auxiliary police officers
appointed by the Mayor. Competent and qualified members of the unit shall be
selected and assigned duties and responsibilities by the Chief of Police. They
shall assist with traffic and crowd control at city-sponsored or approved
parades and events. Auxiliary officers shall assist in the preservation of
order maintenance, accompany regular uniformed officers on weekend ride-along
partnerships, provide assistance with emergencies, natural or man-made
disasters and conduct any other duties as directed by the Chief of Police.
   (B)   Requirements for appointment. To be eligible for appointment as an
auxiliary police officer, an applicant must be at least 21 years of age, must
comply with Section 3.1-30-20 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-
20), must not be convicted of a felony or crime of moral turpitude, must
possess a valid state's driver's license (active military members exempt from
the state's driver's license requirement) and must be recommended for the
appointment by the Chief of Police.
   (C)   Length of service; compensation. Auxiliary police officers serve at
the discretion of the Mayor and/or Chief of Police on a voluntary,
uncompensated basis (uncompensated position).
   (D)   Part-time status. Auxiliary police officers are not full-time sworn
members of the regular Police Department of the city and shall not function on
a full-time basis unless mobilized to assist with a declared emergency, natural
or man-made disaster.
   (E)   Direction and control. Auxiliary police officers while on duty and
during the performance of their duties shall be under the supervision of a
full-time officer and subject to the direction of the Chief of Police.
   (F)   Authority and responsibilities. Auxiliary police officers are not
"conservators of the peace", and do not possess broad police powers to arrest,
or cause to be arrested, with or without process, all persons who break the
peace and are found violating any municipal ordinance or any criminal law of
the state while on duty. The auxiliary police unit shall have such powers and
responsibilities as may be prescribed by state statute, ordinance, or the Chief
of Police.
   (G)   Uniforms and identification symbols. The uniforms and identification
symbols worn by members of the auxiliary police unit shall be by the Chief of
Police. Badges shall be different and distinct from the regular full time
officers of the Police Department.
   (H)   Use of force; firearms. It shall be the duty of every member of the
auxiliary police unit to conduct themselves in a proper and law-abiding manner
at all times, and to refrain from any unnecessary use of force. In conjunction
with employment as an auxiliary police officer, members shall carry their
assigned or approved firearms and credentials (city ID and badge) only when in
uniform while in the performance of assigned duties, which includes direct
travel to and from the assignment location.
(Ord. 8186-2018, passed 4-16-2018)
§ 33.025 POLICE MARSHAL.
   The Chief of Police shall appoint Police Marshal(s) to maintain security for
City Hall and other city buildings open to the public. They will ensure order
maintenance for city employees, department heads, elected officials, and the
general public. Police Marshals shall perform additional duties and/or staffing
assignments as directed by the Chief of Police or his or her designee in
accordance with the Police Marshal job description. Police Marshals are
conservators of the peace possessing the same powers of arrest, search and
seizure and the securing and service of warrants as the Sheriff of St. Clair
County and police officers of the City of Belleville. Police Marshals shall
wear department uniforms, carry department-issued weapons, credentials and
other equipment while performing their ascribed duties approved by the Chief of
Police. Police Marshals are part-time non-union positions. In the event of a
natural or man-made disaster, other civil emergency, or emergency declaration
by the Mayor, Police Marshals may be deployed on a temporary full-time basis as
needed by the Chief of Police until such emergency is abated.
(Ord. 9059-2022, passed 6-21-2022)
§ 33.026 POLICE PENSION FUND.
   There is hereby created a Police Pension Fund and a Board of Trustees of the
Police Pension Fund in accordance with the provisions of 40 ILCS 5/3-101 et
seq.
(1960 Code, § 4.11)
§ 33.027 WORK PERIOD.
   The work period for the Police Department shall be a period consisting of 28
consecutive days.
(1960 Code, § 4.13) (Ord. 3277, passed 12-30-1974)
§ 33.028 DISPATCH CALL CENTER.
   (A)   The Police Department shall maintain at all times the city’s Dispatch
Call Center, including the maintenance of its 9-1-1 or Public Safety Answering
Point (PSAP).
   (B)   Subject to applicable laws, the Dispatch Call Center shall:
      (1)   Answer 9-1-1 emergency and non-emergency calls from the public, the
interdepartmental calls from police, fire and ambulance services and calls from
other public safety agencies;
      (2)   Monitor multiple computer and/or video screens, gather, prioritize,
and document caller information;
      (3)   Provide callers with the appropriate advice or referral, or
initiate police, fire and/or emergency medical (EMS) services to the caller;
and
      (4)   Operate Computer Aided Dispatch (CAD), 800 MHZ radio, and multiple
sophisticated communications equipment systems.
(Ord. 7922, passed 12-21-2015)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.040 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby established a department of the municipal
government of the city that shall be known as the Fire Department. The Fire
Chief shall operate within and comply with existing laws in respect to its
areas of jurisdiction and responsibilities and shall develop and maintain an
organizational structure that facilitates efficient and effective management of
all its resources
(1960 Code, § 5-1-1)
   (B)   Work period. The work period for the Fire Department shall be a period
consisting of 28 consecutive days.
(1960 Code, § 5-2-13)
(Ord. 3278, passed 12-30-1974; Ord. 7362, passed 3-15-2010; Ord. 9130-2023,
passed 3-6-2023)
§ 33.041 APPOINTMENT OF FIRE CHIEF AND MEMBERS.
   (A)   All members of the Fire Department, with the exception of the Fire
Chief and the Deputy Fire Chief, are hereby declared subject to the provisions
of 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-1 et seq. The Board of Fire and Police Commissioners shall
appoint all members of the Fire Department in accordance with the above
statute.
   (B)   (1)   All original appointments to the Fire Department under and in
accordance with the rules and regulations of the Board of Fire and Police
Commissioners shall be for a probationary period of one year.
      (2)   At the expiration of such probationary period, such appointment to
the Fire Department shall automatically become permanent; provided, however,
that, the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners may, at any time during the
probationary period, discharge such appointee after notice and assignment of
cause of removal therefrom.
   (C)   The Mayor is authorized to appoint, suspend or discharge the Fire
Chief or the Deputy Fire Chief with the consent of the City Council. In the
event the Mayor discharges the Fire Chief or the Deputy Fire Chief, he or she
shall revert to the rank he or she held before his or her appointment to that
office, if any, as the Fire Department has established under the Fire and
Police Commission Act, being 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1.
(1960 Code, § 5-1-2) (Ord. 7362, passed 3-15-2010)
§ 33.042 DEPUTY FIRE CHIEF.
   The Deputy Fire Chief shall perform such duties as may be assigned to him or
her by the Fire Chief or the City Council.
   (A)   Creation. It is hereby created the Office of Deputy Fire Chief, which
office shall have the following duties.
      (1)   The Deputy Fire Chief shall be second in command of the Fire
Department in the city in the absence of the Fire Chief from the city and
during such other periods of the Fire Chief’s absence shall assume all the
duties herein and before imposed by this subchapter upon Fire Chief.
      (2)   His or her hours of duty shall be fixed by the Fire Chief.
      (3)   The Deputy Fire Chief shall be subject to the orders of the Fire
Chief and the Mayor.
   (B)   Salary. There should be allowed and paid to the Deputy Fire Chief an
annual salary as provided in the budget ordinance which shall be paid in equal
bi-weekly installments.
   (C)   Reversion of rank. If whomever has been appointed to perform the
duties of Deputy Fire Chief shall be subsequently relieved of those duties, or
the office abolished, he or she shall revert to the rank he or she held before
his or her appointment to that office, if any, subject to the rules of the Fire
and Police Commissioners Act.
(1960 Code, § 5-1-3) (Ord. 7362, passed 3-15-2010)
§ 33.043 DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall perform the following duties.
   (A)   Attending fires. The Fire Chief or designee shall attend all fires
based upon the needs, size and complexity of the incident. If the complexity is
such that the Fire Chief or designee responds, they should assume command and
implement the Incident Management System to meet the particular characteristics
of the incident based on its size and complexity, as well as the operating
environment.
   (B)   Inspections and reports. The Fire Chief shall inspect and superintend
the various fire apparatus belonging to the city, see that the same are kept in
good repair and report the condition thereof to the Police and Fire Committee
at its regular monthly meetings.
   (C)   Examination of buildings. Throughout the year, and at such times as
the City Council may direct by ordinance or resolution, the Fire Chief shall
examine all buildings and structures, and see that the same are not exposed to,
or endangered by any combustible materials. It is the Fire Chief’s duty to
examine all buildings where fires are usually kept or generally used, and see
that the fires, fireplaces, grates, stoves, funnels, chimneys, ovens, forges
and other places or apparatus used for burning fuel are in proper and safe
condition, so as not to endanger buildings or property situated near the same.
(1960 Code, § 5-1-4) (Ord. 7362, passed 3-15-2010; Ord. 9130-2023, passed 3-6-
2023)
§ 33.044 OBSTRUCTING FIRE CHIEF.
   No person shall resist the entrance of the Fire Chief or Chief of Police or
willfully obstruct them in the discharge of their duties, or neglect or refuse
to attend to all reasonable directions given by them or either of them, for
altering, amending or removing any of the dangerous apparatus or fixtures
aforesaid. In case any person is convicted of such neglect, or refuses to
attend to the directions of the Fire Chief or Chief of Police for altering,
amending or removing any of the aforesaid dangerous apparatus or fixtures, the
court or magistrate before which conviction is had may order, as part of the
judgment, the Fire Chief or Chief of Police to make such alteration, amendment
or removal at the expense of the defendant in such cause.
(1960 Code, § 5-1-5) Penalty, see §
33.999
§ 33.045 MANUALS ADOPTED.
   The Manuals hereby adopted shall be the rules and regulations, standard
operating guidelines and current collective bargaining agreement governing the
operation of the Fire Department of the city.
(1960 Code, § 5-1-6) (Ord. 7362, passed 3-15-2010)
§ 33.046 FIRE STATIONS.
   The Fire Department shall consist of four stations designated as No. 1,
Carlyle Avenue Station; No. 2, West Washington Street Station; No. 3, West Main
Street Station; and No. 4, South Illinois Street Station. The number of
Captains, Drivers and Pipemen to be stationed at a particular station shall be
determined by the Fire Chief.
(1960 Code, § 5-1-7) (Ord. 7362, passed 3-15-2010)
§ 33.047 DUTIES OF FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   General duties. The members of the Fire Department shall be on duty at
all such hours of the day and night as may be prescribed by the rules and
regulations of the Fire Department, except when otherwise ordered by the Fire
Chief, and shall perform whatever duties may be prescribed for the Department
by the rules and regulations or by ordinance. An equal number of members shall
serve in alternate shifts and all members shall be subject to call as defined
in C.B.A.
   (B)   Care of apparatus. It shall be the special duty of all members of the
Fire Department to keep, protect and preserve the fire apparatus and to work
with skill and judgment. The fire apparatus shall be kept in good order and
repair and at all times in perfect readiness. Members of the Fire Department
shall perform such other duties as from time to time may be required by the
Fire Chief.
(1960 Code, § 5-1-8) (Ord. 1878, passed - -; Ord. 7362, passed 3-15-2010)
§ 33.048 FIREMEN’S PENSION FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Firemen’s Pension Fund and a Board of
Trustees of the Firemen’s Pension Fund in accordance with the provisions of 40
ILCS 5/4-109a et seq.
(1960 Code, § 5-1-9)
   (B)   The City Council reserves the right to amend this section to provide
for the funds received from insurance companies specified in division (A) above
to be paid to the Firemen’s Pension Fund in the event it so desires at some
future date.
(Prior1960 Code, § 5-1-4)
(Ord. 1710, passed - -; Ord. 7362, passed 3-15-2010)
§ 33.049 NON-EMERGENCY MEDICAL ASSISTANCE FEE.
   When the city Fire Department responds to a call for assistance at an
assisted living, skilled nursing or similar institutional residence facility to
provide non-emergency assistance for a person who does not require any
emergency medical services, such as the lifting of a patient, a fee in the
amount of $338 per hour (with a minimum of one hour) will be charged to the
facility and collected by the city for each request for non-emergency medical
assistance.
(Ord. 9265-2024, passed 4-1-2024)
BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION
§ 33.060 BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION.
   (A)   Creation. A Bureau of Fire Prevention in the Fire Department of the
city is hereby established, which shall be operated under the supervision of
the Chief of the Fire Department.
   (B)   Inspector. The Chief of the Fire Department shall designate an officer
or member of the Fire Department as Chief Inspector of the Bureau of Fire
Prevention, who shall hold this office at the pleasure of the Chief of the Fire
Department. The Chief of the Fire Department may also designate such number of
Assistant Inspectors as are authorized by the City Council.
   (C)   Duties. It shall be the duty of the officers of the Bureau of Fire
Prevention to enforce all laws and ordinances of the state, county and city,
covering the following:
      (1)   The prevention of fires;
      (2)   The storage and use of explosives, flammables and hazardous
materials;
      (3)   The installation and maintenance of automatic and other fire alarm
systems, and fire extinguishing equipment;
      (4)   The maintenance and regulation of fire escapes;
      (5)   The means and adequacy of exit in case of fire, from factories,
schools, hotels, lodging houses, asylums, hospitals, churches, halls, theaters,
amphitheaters and all other places in which numbers of persons work, live or
congregate from time to time for any purpose; and
      (6)   The investigation of the cause, origin and circumstances of fires.
   (D)   Delegation of powers and duties. The Chief of the Fire Department may
delegate any of his or her powers or duties set forth in §
33.043 of this chapter to the Chief Inspector.
(1960 Code, § 5-2-1) (Ord. 7362, passed 3-15-2010)
§ 33.061 INVESTIGATION AND REPORT OF FIRES.
   (A)   (1)   The Bureau of Fire Prevention shall investigate the cause,
origin and circumstances of every fire occurring in the city by which property
has been destroyed or damaged and, so far as possible, shall determine whether
the fire is the result of carelessness or design. Immediately upon the
occurrence of such fire, the assistant in whose district the fire occurs shall
begin the investigation and, if it appears to the officer making the
investigation that the fire is of suspicious origin, the Chief of the Fire
Department shall be immediately notified of the fact.
      (2)   The officer making the investigation shall take charge of the
physical evidence, shall notify the proper authorities designated by law to
pursue the investigation of such matters and shall further cooperate with the
authorities in the collection of evidence and in the prosecution of the case.
   (B)   Every fire shall be reported in writing to the Bureau of Fire
Prevention within two days after its occurrence by the officer in whose
jurisdiction the fire has occurred. The report shall be in the form prescribed
by the Chief of the Fire Department and shall contain a statement of all facts
relating to the cause, origin and circumstances of the fire, the extent of the
damage thereof, the insurance upon the property and such other information as
may be required.
(1960 Code, § 5-2-2)
§ 33.062 RECORD OF FIRES.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall keep in the office of the Bureau of
Fire Prevention a record of all fires and of all the facts concerning the same,
including statistics as to the extent of such fires and the damage caused
thereby, and whether such losses were covered by insurance and, if so, in what
amount. Such record shall be made daily from the reports made by the inspectors
under the provisions of this subchapter. All such records shall be public.
(1960 Code, § 5-2-3)
§ 33.063 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Hazardous occupations. The Chief of the Fire Department, Chief
Inspector or an assistant specially designated thereto shall inspect, as often
as may be necessary, but not less than one time per year, all specially
hazardous manufacturing processes, storages or installations of acetylene or
other gases, chemicals, oils, explosives and hazardous materials, all interior
fire alarms and automatic sprinkler systems, and such other hazards or
appliances as the Chief of the Fire Department shall designate, and shall make
such orders as may be necessary for the enforcement of the laws and ordinances
governing the same and for safeguarding of life and property.
   (B)   Fire hazards in building. The Chief of the Fire Department shall
inspect, or cause to be inspected by the Bureau of Fire Prevention, or by the
Fire Department officers and members, as often as may be necessary, but not
less than one time per year, all buildings, for the purpose of ascertaining and
causing to be corrected any conditions liable to cause fire, or any violations
of the provisions or intent of this subchapter or any ordinance affecting fire
hazards.
(1960 Code, § 5-2-4) (Ord. 7362, passed 3-15-2010)
§ 33.064 ORDER TO REMOVE HAZARD.
   (A)   Order. Whenever an inspector finds any building or other structure
which, for want of repairs, lack of or insufficient fire escapes, automatic or
other fire alarm apparatus or fire extinguishing equipment or by reason of age
or dilapidated condition, or from any other cause, is especially liable to
fire, and which is so situated as to endanger other property or the occupants
thereof, and whenever an inspector finds in any building combustible or
explosive matter or flammable conditions dangerous to the safety of such
building or the occupants thereof or finds dangerous accumulations of rubbish,
or finds obstructions on fire escapes, stairs, passageways or windows liable to
interfere with the operations of the Fire Department or egress of occupants in
case of fire, he or she shall order such dangerous conditions or materials to
be removed or remedied and such order shall forthwith be complied with by the
owner or occupant of such premises or building.
   (B)   Service of order. The service of any such order may be made upon the
occupant of the premises to whom it is directed, either by delivering the same
to and leaving it with any person in charge of the premises, or in case no such
person is found upon the premises by affixing a copy thereof in a conspicuous
place on the door to the entrance of said premises. Whenever it may be
necessary to serve the order upon the owner of the premises, it may be served
either by delivering to and leaving with the person a copy of the order or, if
such owner is absent from the jurisdiction of the officer making the order, by
mailing a copy to the owner’s last known post office address.
   (C)   Appeal. If an order is made by the Chief Inspector or any of the
Assistant Inspectors, such owner or occupant may, within 24 hours, appeal to
the Chief of the Fire Department, who shall, within five days, review such
order and file his or her decision thereon and, unless by his or her authority
the order is revoked or modified, it shall remain in force and be complied
within the time fixed in the order or decision of the Chief of the Fire
Department.
   (D)   Appeals Board. Any owner or occupant may, within five days after the
making or affirming of any such order by the Chief of the Fire Department, file
his or her petition with the Appeals Board as defined in the Fire Code, praying
a review of such order and it shall be the duty of such Board to hear the same
within not less than five days, nor more than ten days, from the time the
petition is filed, or as soon thereafter as reasonably can be, and to make such
order in the premises as right as justice may require, and such decision shall
be final. The person appealing to the Board shall file with the Board within
two days a bond in an amount to be fixed by and approved by the Board,
conditioned to pay all the costs of such appeal in case the appellant fails to
sustain his or her appeal or the same be dismissed for any cause.
(1960 Code, § 5-2-5) (Ord. 7362, passed 3-15-2010)
§ 33.065 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   The Chief of the Fire Department, the Chief Inspector or any Assistant
Inspector may, at all reasonable hours, enter any building or premises within
his or her jurisdiction for the purpose of making any inspection or
investigation which, under the provisions of this subchapter he or she deems
necessary.
(1960 Code, § 5-2-6) (Ord. 7362, passed 3-15-2010)
§ 33.066 ASSISTANCE OF CITY ATTORNEY.
   The City Attorney, upon request of the Bureau of Fire Prevention, shall
assist the Inspectors in the investigation of any fire which, in their opinion,
is of suspicious origin.
(1960 Code, § 5-2-7)
§ 33.067 SCHOOL FIRE DRILLS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall require teachers of public, private
and parochial schools and educational institutions to conduct fire drills each
year, in accordance with 105 ILCS 128 School Safety Drill Act and to keep all
doors and exits accessible during school hours and anytime the building is
occupied.
(1960 Code, § 5-2-8) (Ord. 7362, passed 3-15-2010)
§ 33.068 PERMITS FOR FLAMMABLES, EXPLOSIVES AND OTHER HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   Before licenses may be issued for the keeping, storage, use, manufacture,
sale, handling, transportation or other disposition of highly inflammable
materials and rubbish, crude petroleum or any of its products, gun or blasting
powder, dynamite, or explosives of any kind, including fireworks, firecrackers
and signaling explosives, the Chief of the Fire Department, the Chief Inspector
or his or her assistants shall inspect and approve the receptacles, vehicles,
building or storage places to be used for any such purposes, in accordance with
the adopted Fire Code.
(1960 Code, § 5-2-9)
§ 33.069 ANNUAL REPORTS.
   (A)   The annual report of the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall be made on or
before the first Monday of February and transmitted to the Mayor.
   (B)   It shall contain all proceedings under this subchapter with such
statistics as the Chief of the Fire Department may wish to include therein.
   (C)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall also recommend any amendments
to the subchapter which, in his or her judgment, shall be desirable.
(1960 Code, § 5-2-10)
§ 33.070 FORMS AND REPORTS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall prepare instructions for the Chief
Inspector and his or her assistants, and forms for their use in the reports
required by this subchapter.
(1960 Code, § 5-2-11)
§ 33.071 USE OF FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to use fire hydrants within the
city without first obtaining a written permit from the Fire Department and
Illinois American Water Company.
      (2)   Upon issuing such a permit, the Water Company shall immediately
notify the Fire Chief that the permit was issued.
   (B)   A person obtaining a permit to use a fire hydrant must have the permit
in his or her possession at all times while operating the hydrant.
   (C)   (1)   All fire hydrants privately owned and within the jurisdictional
boundaries of the city’s Fire Department must provide written verification for
yearly flow testing and inspection of parts and equipment.
      (2)   Upon yearly Fire Inspection, a copy of this test must be provided
to the Fire Department for their records.
(1960 Code, § 5-2-12) (Ord. 3267, passed 12-2-1974; Ord. 7150, passed 7-8-2008)
Penalty, see §
33.999
FIRE CODE AND SAFETY PROVISIONS
§ 33.085 FIRE CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Adoption of Fire Prevention Code.
      (1)   There is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations to safeguard life, property and public welfare from the
hazards of fire, and explosion arising from the storage, handling or use of
substances, materials or devices and from conditions hazardous to life,
property and public welfare in the use or occupancy of buildings, structures,
sheds, tents, lots or premises, that certain code known as the 2015
International Fire Code and the whole thereof, save and except such portions as
are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended, and the same are hereby adopted
and incorporated as fully as if set out in length herein, and from the date on
which this section shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be
controlling within the corporate limits of the city.
      (2)   Amendments. The 2015 International Fire Code are hereby revised
and/or amended as follows:
         (a)   Wherever the term “fire code official” is used in the Code
hereby adopted, it shall be held to mean the “Fire Chief, or their designee, of
the City of Belleville, Illinois”.
         (b)   Section 101.1. Wherever the word “NAME OF JURISDICTION” is used
in the Code hereby adopted, it shall be held to mean the “City of Belleville,
Illinois”.
   (B)   Adoption of Appendices. Appendices A through H of the 2015
International Fire Code are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set
out in length herein.
(Ord. 7212, passed 1-5-2009; Ord. 7610, passed 6-4-2012; Am. Ord. 8398-2019,
passed 12-3-2019)
§ 33.086 MUTUAL AID BOX ALARM SYSTEM ESTABLISHED.
   Pursuant to Ord. 6359, the City Council does hereby establish a mutual aid
box alarm system, as provided in Exhibit “A” (attached to the ordinance
codified herein).
(1960 Code, § 5-4-1)
§ 33.087 KEY LOCK BOX SYSTEM.
   (A)   The following structures shall be equipped with a key lock box at or
near the main entrance or such other location as required by the Fire Chief:
      (1)   All commercial or industrial buildings identified by the fire
officials as difficult to access during emergencies;
      (2)   All new commercial construction and/or new businesses within the
city having an automatic alarm system, or equipped with an automatic fire
suppression system;
      (3)   Multi-family residential structures (more than two units),
including senior citizen apartment/condominium complexes, that have restricted
access through a common corridor for access to the living units or those
identified by the fire officials as difficult to access during emergencies; and
      (4)   All other buildings as recommended by the Fire Chief.
   (B)   All new construction subject to this section shall have the key lock
box installed and operational prior to the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy.
   (C)   The owner of a structure and the owner of any business in a structure
required to have a key lock box shall, at all times, keep a key or keys, in the
lock box that will allow for complete and unobstructed access to the structure
interior. These keys are to be marked and identified in a manner approved by
the Fire Chief.
(1960 Code, § 5-6-1) (Ord. 7425, passed 8-16-2010)
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE FOR ASSESSING AND
DETERMINING CLAIMS UNDER PSEBA
§ 33.101 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this administrative procedure is to provide a fair and
efficient method for determining the eligibility of a fu11-time employee for
the benefits enumerated under the Illinois Public Safety Employee Benefits Act
(PSEBA) (820 ILCS 320/1 et seq.) through an administrative process, including
if necessary, an administrative hearing.
(Ord. 8107-2017, passed 1-2-2018)
§ 33.102 (RESERVED).
§ 33.103 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   As noted by the court in Pedersen v. Village of Hoffman Estates, 2014 IL
App. 4th 160747, "the Act, however, does not provide any guidance on the proper
procedure for seeking [PSEBA] benefits." ¶ 37. Accordingly, the application
procedure of this section establishes guidance on the proper procedure for
Public Safety Officers seeking PSEBA benefits in the city.
   (A)   Public Safety Officers, or family member(s) of an injured or deceased
Public Safety Officer, ("applicant") must file a full and complete PSEBA
application in writing within 30 days of the date of receipt of the pension
board's written decision granting a line-of-duty disability pension or within
30 days of the date of the adoption of this subchapter in the event that an
applicant has filed for a PSEBA claim prior to the date of adoption of this
subchapter, whichever is later, if the applicant is seeking benefits under
PSEBA. The city shall notify applicant if the PSEBA application is incomplete
and applicant shall have five days to remedy their application. Failure to
timely file the full and complete application shall result in a forfeiture of
the benefits under PSEBA by failure to properly submit a complete application.
   (B)   A complete PSEBA application includes the following:
      (1)   The name of the applicant, date of hire, detailed information
regarding the incident, including information relating to how the injury was
sustained in the line of duty (date, time, place, nature of injury, and other
factual circumstances surrounding the incident giving rise to said claim);
      (2)   The applicant's firsthand knowledge explaining, to the city's
satisfaction, how the injury/death directly resulted from:
         (a)   Response to fresh pursuit;
         (b)   Response to what is reasonably believed to be an emergency;
         (c)   Response to an unlawful act perpetrated by another; or
         (d)   Participation during the investigation of a criminal act;
      (3)   A signed PSEBA medical authorization release which authorizes the
collection of information related to the incident including, but not limited
to, disability pension proceedings, worker's compensation records, and medical
records and specifies the name and address for pertinent health care provider
(s);
      (4)   A signed PSEBA general information release specifying the name and
signature of the applicant or her/his authorized representative along with
legal proof of said representation and name and signature of witness
authorizing the collection of information pertinent to the incident review
process;
      (5)   The name(s) of witnesses to the incident;
      (6)   The name(s) of witnesses the applicant intends to call at the PSEBA
hearing;
      (7)   Information and supporting pension documentation filed with the
appropriate pension board;
      (8)   Information supporting the PSEBA eligibility requirements; and
      (9)   Other sources of health insurance benefits currently enrolled in or
received by the applicant and/or family members if the applicant is deceased.
   (C)   The PSEBA application must be submitted to the City Human Resources
Department in its entirety.
   (D)   The PSEBA application must be sworn and notarized to certify the
truthfulness of the content of the information. A review of the application
shall not occur until the application is complete.
   (E)   On the date that the PSEBA application is deemed complete by the city,
the completed application shall then be submitted to the city as the
preliminary record, and a copy of the same shall be date stamped and provided
to the applicant.
   (F)   Upon receipt of a complete application for PSEBA benefits, the city
shall set the matter for an administrative hearing before a hearing officer to
make a determination on whether to grant the applicant PSEBA benefits based on
the result of the administrative hearing.
   (G)   The applicant will be given written notice of the date for the
scheduled administrative hearing to be served not less than ten days prior to
the commencement of the hearing. If the applicant, upon receiving written
notice of the administrative hearing, cannot attend said date, the applicant
must contact the hearing officer in writing within seven days after being
served. The hearing officer shall establish an alternative hearing date which
is within 30 days of the original hearing date. Failure to appear at the
administrative hearing shall result in denial of PSEBA benefits.
(Ord. 9095-2022, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 33.104 ADMINISTRATIVE COMPOSITION.
   The administrative hearing shall be scheduled and conducted by a hearing
officer whose authority and limitations are as follows:
   (A)   Authority of the hearing officer. The hearing officer shall have all
of the authorities granted to her/him under common law relative to the conduct
of an administrative hearing, including the authority to:
      (1)   Preside over city hearings involving PSEBA;
      (2)   Administer oaths;
      (3)   Hear testimony and accept evidence that is relevant to the issue of
eligibility under PSEBA;
      (4)   Issue subpoenas to secure attendance of witnesses and the
production of relevant papers or documents upon the request of the parties or
their representatives;
      (5)   Rule upon objections in the admissibility of evidence;
      (6)   Preserve and authenticate the record of the hearing and all
exhibits in evidence introduced at the hearing; and
      (7)   Issue a determination based on the evidence presented at the
hearing, the determination of which shall be in writing and shall include a
written finding of fact, decision and order.
   (B)   Hearing officer. The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City
Council, is hereby authorized to appoint a person to hold the position of
hearing officer for each hearing on PSEBA benefits that shall come before this
city. In making said selection, the following information should be considered,
at a minimum:
      (1)   The individual's ability to comply with the job description as set
forth herein; and
      (2)   The individual must be an attorney licensed to practice law in the
State of Illinois and have knowledge of and experience in employment and labor
law, general civil procedure, the rules of evidence, and administrative
practice.
(Ord. 8107-2017, passed 1-2-2018)
§ 33.105 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING.
   The system of administrative hearings for the determination of eligibility
for benefits under PSEBA shall be initiated either by the city or by the
applicant after the submission of a full and complete PSEBA application. An
administrative hearing shall be held to adjudicate and determine whether the
applicant is eligible for benefits under PSEBA. If the applicant is found
eligible, the benefits shall be consistent with the Act.
   (A)   Record. The city shall ensure that all hearings are attended by a
certified court reporter and a transcript of all proceedings shall be made by
said certified court reporter and a copy be provided to the applicant within 28
days of the date of the administrative hearing.
   (B)   Procedures. The city and the applicant shall be entitled to
representation by counsel at said administrative hearing and present witnesses,
testimony and documents, may cross-examine opposing witnesses, and may request
the issuance of subpoenas to compel the appearance of relevant witnesses or the
production of relevant documents.
   (C)   Evidence. The Illinois Rules of Evidence shall apply to the extent
practicable unless, by such application, the Hearing Officer determines that
application of the rule would be an injustice or preclude the introduction of
evidence of the type commonly relied upon by a reasonably prudent person in the
conduct of her or his affairs. Such determination shall be in the sole
discretion of the Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer must state on the record
her or his reason for that determination.
   (D)   Final determination. A written determination by the hearing officer of
whether the petitioning applicant is eligible for the benefits under PSEBA
shall constitute a final administrative determination for the purpose of
judicial review under the common law writ of certiorari.
   (E)   Burden of proof. At any administrative hearing, the applicant shall
have the obligation and burden of proof to establish that the applicant is
eligible and qualified to receive PSEBA benefits. The standard of proof in all
hearings conducted under this subchapter shall be by the preponderance of the
evidence.
   (F)   Administrative records. All records pertaining to the administrative
process shall be held in a separate file under the applicant's name with the
city.
(Ord. 8107-2017, passed 1-2-2018)
§ 33.106 CERTIFICATION OF ANY CONTINUING ELIGIBILITY.
   Any person eligible for and receiving benefits under PSEBA shall at least
annually complete and deliver to the Office of Human Resources a form provided
by the city certifying the nature and extent of any continuing eligibility for
such benefits, including but not limited to identity of spouse and dependents,
current employer(s), and other health insurance available. Such certification
shall be made subject to Section 10(a)(2) and 10(a)(3) of the PSEBA (820 ILCS
320/10(a)(2), (3)).
(Ord. 8107-2017, passed 1-2-2018)
§ 33.107 HEALTH INSURANCE BENEFITS.
   Upon qualification for PSEBA benefits, the applicant shall be entitled to
the city’s basic group health insurance plan. Basic group health insurance plan
shall mean the lowest-cost plan available to the city. The basic group health
insurance plan may change from time to time. An applicant may choose to enroll
in any other health insurance plan offered by the city different from the basic
group health insurance plan, but shall pay the difference in insurance premium
between the city’s basic plan and the other plan. Failure of the PSEBA
beneficiary to timely pay the premium’s non-basic level coverage shall result
in coverage in the basic plan. PSEBA benefits do not include benefits not
provided under the city’s basic group health insurance plan such as, but not
limited to, disability benefits, life insurance, dental or vision benefits,
etc.
   (A)   Open enrollment. Individuals receiving benefits under PSEBA will only
be able to change from one plan to another during the city’s open enrollment
period.
   (B)   Other benefits. Health insurance benefits payable from any other
source will reduce the benefits payable from the city. Each applicant shall
sign an affidavit attesting that the applicant is not eligible for insurance
benefits from any other source, unless there is another source. If there is
another source, the applicant shall notify the city of that source no later
than five business days from that source becoming available to the applicant or
the applicant’s beneficiaries. The city reserves the right on an annual basis
to have the benefit recipient provide another affidavit affirming whether other
health insurance is available or payable to the applicant, his/her spouse and/
or his/her qualifying dependent children. The affidavit must be completed and
returned to the city within 30 calendar days of written notice from the city.
If the recipient does not complete and return the affidavit within the time
required, the city shall give the recipient an additional written notice
providing an additional 15 calendar days for the recipient to complete and
return the affidavit. Failure to return the affidavit within the time required
shall result in the recipient incurring responsibility for reimbursing the city
for premiums paid during the period the affidavit is due and not filed.
   (C)   Disclosure of health insurance coverage. The applicant has an ongoing
obligation and shall update health insurance coverage information provided and
failure to do so may result in the denial of benefits and/or reimbursement to
the city for duplicate coverage. If duplicate coverage has been received by a
PSEBA beneficiary, further PSEBA benefits will be denied until the city has
been fully reimbursed by the PSEBA beneficiary for what it would have been
credited if it had known about other coverage.
   (D)   Reimbursement. Receipt of health insurance benefits from other sources
without notice to the city shall require the applicant to reimburse the city
for the value of those benefits.
   (E)   Medicare eligibility. The applicant shall notify the city when the
applicant becomes Medicare eligible regardless of the status of the enrollment
period, so the city may assist with the transition to Medicare coverage and/or
adjust health insurance benefits or PSEBA benefits accordingly.
(Ord. 8310, passed 3-18-2019)
§ 33.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Corporations, persons or individuals permitted to install a system
through the city-owned electric control board shall be responsible for any and
all false alarms. Each such corporation, person or individual, per §
33.001 of this chapter, shall be subject to a fine of not less than $10, nor
more than $500, for each false alarm received in excess of six during any 12-
month period.
   (C)   Any person violating any provisions of §§
33.040 through
33.048,
33.060 through 33.072 and
33.085 through
33.087 of this chapter or neglecting to comply with any order issued pursuant
to §§
33.040 through
33.048,
33.060 through 33.072 and
33.085 through
33.087 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $10, nor more than $500.
Each day a violation is permitted to exist beyond the time specified in any
notice is a separate offense.
(1960 Code, § 5-5-1) (Ord. 3309, passed 9-15-1975)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
Section
Budget System
   
34.001   Adoption of annual budget
   
34.002   Director of Finance
   
34.003   Assistant Budget Officer
   
34.004   Compensation
   
34.005   Office of Purchasing
Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee
   
34.020   Definitions
   
34.021   Registration of telecommunications providers
   
34.022   Municipal telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee
   
34.023   Collection, enforcement and administration of telecommunications
structure maintenance fees
   
34.024   Compliance with other laws
   
34.025   Existing franchises and licenses
   
34.026   Penalties
   
34.027   Enforcement
   
34.028   Waiver and fee implementation
Specific Taxes
   
34.040   Utility tax
   
34.041   Home rule municipal and service occupation tax
   
34.042   Foreign fire insurance tax
   
34.043   Hotel/motel and short-term rental tax
   
34.044   Electric utility tax
   
34.045   F.S.P. sales tax
   
34.046   Gas use tax
   
34.047   Municipal cannabis retailers’ occupation tax
   
34.048   Self-service storage facility accommodations tax
Taxpayers’ Rights Code
   
34.060   Title
   
34.061   Scope
   
34.062   Definitions
   
34.063   Notices
   
34.064   Late payment
   
34.065   Payment
   
34.066   Certain credits and refunds
   
34.067   Audit procedure
   
34.068   Appeal
   
34.069   Hearing
   
34.070   Interest and penalties
   
34.071   Abatement
   
34.072   Installment contracts
   
34.073   Statute of limitations
   
34.074   Voluntary disclosure
   
34.075   Publication of tax ordinances
   
34.076   Internal review procedure
   
34.077   Application
Interested Parties Registry Registration Rules
   
34.090   Definitions
   
34.091   Establishment of registry
   
34.092   Maintenance of registry
   
34.093   Registration by residents
   
34.094   Registration of organizations
   
34.095   Determination of eligibility
   
34.096   Renewal and termination
   
34.097   Amendment to registration
   
34.098   Registries available for public inspection
   
34.099   Notices to be sent to interested parties
   
34.100   Non-interference
   
34.101   Amendment of registration rules
General Assistance Fund and General Town Fund
   
34.120   Creation and composition of General Assistance Fund
   
34.121   Creation and composition of General Town Fund
Credit Card Payments
   
34.130   Acceptance of credit card payments
 
   
34.999   Penalty
BUDGET SYSTEM
§ 34.001 ADOPTION OF ANNUAL BUDGET.
   The city hereby adopts 65 ILCS 5/8-2-9.1, through and including 5/8-2-9.10,
providing for an annual municipal budget in lieu of the passage of an annual
appropriation ordinance.
(1960 Code, § 3.12) (Ord. 3192, passed 1-21-1974; Ord. 5587, passed 5-20-1996)
§ 34.002 DIRECTOR OF FINANCE.
   (A)   The Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, shall appoint a
Director of Finance, who shall have the powers, duties and responsibilities
enumerated in the above sections of the Illinois Compiled Statutes as they are
now or may hereafter be required by the City Council, however, such bond shall
not be less that required by statute.
   (B)   In addition to the powers, duties and responsibilities enumerated in
the above section of the Illinois Compiled Statutes, the Director of Finance
shall be responsible for direct management and supervision of the financial
affairs of the city not otherwise reserved to the City Treasurer. Such
functions shall include, but not be limited to: responsibility for the general
accounting and financial reporting of the city’s operations; supervision and
coordination of the preparation of the annual city budget; analyzing financial
records to forecast future cash flow and financial results; evaluating needs
and sources for short-term and long-term financing; directing and formulating
internal control systems; supervising all accounts payable functions; oversee
the centralized purchasing functions; coordinate the annual audit; evaluate,
plan and develop management information system for all areas of the city’s
operations; develop a Capital Improvement Plan; supervise all employee payroll
and pension functions; discharge such duties as may be assigned by the Mayor or
the City Council.
(1960 Code, § 3.12) (Ord. 5584, passed 6-18-1996; Ord. 5587, passed 5-20-1996;
Ord. 7951-2016, passed 5-16-2016)
§ 34.003 ASSISTANT BUDGET OFFICER.
   The Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, may appoint an Assistant
Director of Finance whose duties and responsibilities shall be to assist the
Director of Finance in all matters set forth in §
34.002 of this chapter. The Assistant Director of Finance shall give a bond in
each sum as may be required by the City Council; however, such bond shall not
be less than required by statute.
(1960 Code, § 3.12) (Ord. 3236, passed 7-1-1974; Ord. 5587, passed 5-20-1996)
§ 34.004 COMPENSATION.
   The Director of Finance and Assistant Director of Finance shall receive such
compensation as set from time to time by the Mayor and City Council.
(1960 Code, § 3.12) (Ord. 3236, passed 7-1-1974; Ord. 5587, passed 5-20-1996)
§ 34.005 OFFICE OF PURCHASING.
   (A)   Duties and responsibilities.
      (1)   There is hereby established an Office of Purchasing under the
direction of the Purchasing Agent and the office will be responsible to the
Finance Director for the entire purchasing program.
      (2)   The office or designee shall have the following responsibilities,
in addition to any others designated by the City Council:
         (a)   Act to procure all necessary supplies, materials and services
subject to City Council approval, for the efficient operation of the city at
the lowest possible cost;
         (b)   Discourage collusive or restrictive bidding and endeavor to
obtain as full and open competition as possible on all purchases;
         (c)   Establish all rules and regulations authorized by this ordinance
and amend, when necessary, with the approval of the City Council;
         (d)   Keep informed of current developments in the field of
purchasing, prices, market conditions and new products, and keep abreast of the
benefits of research done in the field of purchasing by: other governmental
jurisdictions, national technical associations, trade associations having
national recognition and by private businesses and organizations;
         (e)   Prescribe and maintain forms necessary to the operation of this
ordinance;
         (f)   Prepare, adopt and maintain a vendor’s catalog file; said
catalog shall be filed according to materials and shall contain descriptions of
vendor’s commodities and prices;
         (g)   Exploit the possibilities of buying “in bulk” to take full
advantage of discounts;
         (h)   Act to procure all federal and state tax exemptions to which the
city is entitled;
         (i)   Cooperate with other personnel to secure the maximum efficiency
in budgeting and accounting; and
         (j)   Declare as irresponsible those bidders or vendors who default on
their quotations, and to disqualify them from receiving any business from the
city for a stated period of time, as determined by the City Council.
   (B)   Operation procedures.
      (1)   All departments shall henceforth submit requisition orders to the
Purchasing Office as the first step in procuring supplies, materials, services
or equipment.
      (2)   The purchasing designee shall review each request form, have the
authority to consult the Requesting Department, and make any necessary
revisions. The designee must communicate with the Requesting Department before
making any decision that deviates from the original request.
      (3)   When the estimated cost of materials, supplies and contractual
services, except as otherwise provided herein, exceeds $25,000, they shall be
purchased by sealed bids, formal bidding procedures, and from the lowest and
best bidder after an adequate period of public notice.
         (a)   Any work or other public improvement which is not to be paid for
in whole or in part by special assessment or special taxation, and supplied
needed for use by the city, and when the expense thereof will exceed $25,000
shall be constructed either:
            1.   By a contract let by the City Council to the lowest
responsible bidder after advertising for bids; or
            2.   Any such contract may be entered into by the proper officers
without advertising for bid, if authorized by a vote of two-thirds of all the
Aldermen then holding office.
         (b)   Public notices shall be published in at least one newspaper of
general circulation in the city and shall be published at least ten days prior
to bid closing. The newspaper notice required herein will include at a minimum:
a brief description of the item to be purchased or sold, where bid blanks and
specifications may be secured, the time and place for bid opening and a
rejection rights clause.
         (c)   The Purchasing Office shall also solicit sealed bids from all
responsible prospective suppliers, vendors and contractors. The Purchasing
Agent shall have the authority to pre-qualify any potential contractor or
vendor and solicit sealed bids from them.
         (d)   The Purchasing Agent shall have the authority to call a pre-bid
conference with prospective bidders after draft specifications have been
prepared. Such conferences help detect unclear provisions and tend to widen
competition by removing unnecessarily restrictive language.
         (e)   Liability protection shall be sought on service procurement
specifications to protect the city from any unforeseen liability or loss.
Service procurement specifications shall include a hold-harmless and a
certificate-of-insurance clause. The hold-harmless insert requires the
contractor or service provider to save and hold-harmless the city from any
alleged damage as a result of work performed or not performed. The certificate-
of-insurance clause specifies the contractor must furnish a proof of purchase,
which indicates the existence of insurance in sufficient quantities to protect
all parties in the event of loss.
         (f)   Bond, with sufficient sureties, in such amount as shall be
deemed adequate, not only to insure performance of contract in the time and
manner prescribed in the contract, but also to save, indemnify, and keep
harmless the city against loss, may be required of each bidder upon contracts
involving amounts in excess of $25,000 when, in the opinion of the Purchasing
Office, the public interest will be served thereby.
         (g)   All sealed bids shall be publicly opened by the Purchasing Agent
of the city, or by an officer or employee in the office of the Purchasing Agent
duly-authorized in writing by the Purchasing Agent to open such bids. Bid
openings shall be witnessed by a representative of the City Clerk’s office and
the involved department head or designee. Written notice of all bid opening
dates and times shall be forwarded to the City Clerk and involved department
head or designee upon bid letting. All such bids shall be open to public
inspection in the office of the Purchasing Agent for a period of at least 48
hours before award is made.
         (h)   Any agreement or collusion among bidders or prospective bidders
in restraint of freedom of competition by agreement to bid a fixed price, or
otherwise, shall render the bids of such bidders void. Each bidder shall
accompany his bid with a sworn statement, or otherwise swear or affirm, that he
or she has not been a party to any such agreement. Any disclosure in advance of
the opening of bids, of the terms of the bids submitted in response to an
advertisement, made or permitted by the Purchasing Agent shall render the
proceedings void and shall require re-advertisement and re-award.
      (4)   The purchasing designee, with consent of the City Council, shall
have the authority to reject any or all sealed or quoted bids.
         (a)   In determining the responsibility of any bidder, the Purchasing
Agent may take into account other factors in addition to financial
responsibility, such as past records of transaction with the bidder,
experience, adequacy of equipment, ability to complete performance within a
specified time limit and other pertinent considerations.
         (b)   Any and all bids received in response to an advertisement may be
rejected by the Purchasing Agent if the bidder is not deemed responsible, or
the character or quality of the services, supplies, materials, equipment or
labor does not conform to requirements or if the public interest may otherwise
be served thereby. If the contract is awarded to a bidder other than the
lowest, a written statement of reasons shall be prepared and placed into the
public record.
      (5)   Purchases of materials, supplies and contractual services with the
estimated value of less than $10,000 may be made on the open market without
public advertisement, and the requirements of the formal bid procedures are not
applicable.
         (a)   Open market purchases shall be based on three competitive bids,
whenever possible, and shall be solicited by mail, phone and bulletin board
notice.
         (b)   Open market purchases shall also be based on the lowest
responsible bidder, whenever feasible.
      (6)   Emergency purchases above $25,000 may be made in order to protect
life, health or safety of citizens. Those permitted to purchase emergency
materials shall be department heads and they shall be required to submit a
monthly record of emergency purchases. All emergency purchases must be approved
by the City Council as required by state law.
      (7)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, architects, engineers and land
surveyors shall be contracted in accordance with the Illinois Local Government
Professional Services Selection Act (50 ILCS 510/1 et seq.).
      (8)   Disposition of surplus, obsolete or worn-out material or equipment
for sale, shall be done by the Purchasing Office in conformance with
competitive conditions, including when necessary, newspaper advertising and
sealed bids. Items valued at $10,000 or less may be sold by Purchasing. Items
valued greater than $10,000 must be approved for sale by the City Council. The
sale or trade of vehicles, regardless of value, must be approved by the City
Council.
      (9)   All contracts to which the city is party shall contain a non-
discrimination in employment clause which provides, “The contractor shall not
discriminate against any employee or applicant because of race, creed, sex,
color or national origin throughout the contract period”.
      (10)   The purchasing designee, or authorized representative, shall
assist in the inspection or supervise the inspection of all deliveries or
contractual services to determine adherence to advertised specifications.
      (11)   The purchasing designee shall be vested with the authority to
require the prompt reporting and subsequent reassignment of any surplus
materials, supplies or equipment. These transfer capabilities include, but are
not limited to, obsolete items, surplus items and items no longer in use.
(1960 Code, § 3.12) (Ord. 5587, passed 5-20-1996; Ord. 8957-2021, passed 6-21-
2021; Ord. 8969-2021, passed 7-19-2021)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE
§ 34.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROSS CHARGES.
      (1)   The amount paid to a telecommunications retailer for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications within the city, and
for all services rendered in connection therewith, valued in money whether paid
in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and property of every
kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction on account of the
cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor or
service costs, or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended, the
amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. GROSS CHARGES for
private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel point within
the city, charges for the channel mileage between each channel point within the
city and charges for that portion of the interstate interoffice channel
provided within the city.
      (2)   However, GROSS CHARGES shall not include:
         (a)   Any amounts added to a purchaser’s bill because of a charge made
under:
            1.   The fee imposed by this section;
            2.   Additional charges added to a purchaser’s bill under 220 ILCS
5/9-221 or 9-222 of the Public Utilities Act;
            3.   Amounts collected under 65 ILCS 5/8-11-17;
            4.   The tax imposed by the Telecommunications Excise Tax Act;
            5.   911 surcharges; or
            6.   The tax imposed by I.R.C. § 4251.
         (b)   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside
the city;
         (c)   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage
of data or information or subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time-sharing agreement;
         (d)   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
         (e)   Charges to business enterprises certified under 220 ILCS 5/9-
222.1 of the Public Utilities Act to the extent of such exemption and during
the period of time specified by the city;
         (f)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly-
owned subsidiaries or between wholly-owned subsidiaries; and only to the extent
that the charges between the parent corporation and wholly-owned subsidiaries
or between wholly-owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit other than a regulatory required
profit for the corporation rendering such services;
         (g)   Bad debts ( BAD DEBT means any portion of a debt that is related
to a sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
         (h)   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin-operated
telecommunications devices; or
         (i)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided to the city.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any municipal street, alley, water or public right-of-
way dedicated or commonly used for utility purposes, including utility
easements wherein the city has acquired the right and authority to locate or
permit the location of utilities consistent with telecommunications facilities.
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY shall not include any real or personal city property that
is not specifically described in the previous sentence and shall not include
city buildings and other structures or improvements, regardless of whether they
are situated in the public right-of-way.
   RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE. (or any like term)
Any retailer having or maintaining within the state, directly or by a
subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission facilities, sales
office, warehouse, or other place of business, or any agent or other
representative operating within the state under the authority of the retailer
or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or agent or
other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or whether
such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in the state.
   SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly-owned subsidiaries or between wholly-owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
   SERVICE ADDRESS. The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received. If this is not a defined location, as in the case of
wireless telecommunications, paging systems, maritime systems, air-to-ground
systems and the like, SERVICE ADDRESS shall mean the location of the customer’s
primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by the location in
the state where bills are sent.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS. Includes, but is not limited to, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll and wide-area telephone service, channel
services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange
services, private line services, specialized mobile radio services or any other
transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means, between
or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite or similar facilities. Unless the context clearly requires otherwise,
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall also include wireless telecommunications as
hereinafter defined. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value-added services
in which computer-processing applications are used to act on the form, content,
code and protocol of the information for purposes other than transmission.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a
telecommunications service provider for use as a component part of the service
provided by him or her to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or
terminates the end-to-end communications. Retailer access charges, right of
access charges, charges for use of intercompany facilities and all
telecommunications resold in the subsequent provisions and used as a component
of, or integrated into, end-to-end telecommunications service shall not be
included in gross charges as sales for resale. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not
include the provision of cable service through a cable system as defined in the
Cable Communications Act of 1984 (47 U.S.C. §§ 521 and following) as now or
hereafter amended or cable or other programming services subject to an open
video system fee payable to the city through an open video system as defined in
the rules of the Federal Communications Commission (47 C.D.F. §§ 76.1550 and
following) as now or hereafter amended.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER.
      (1)   Any telecommunications retailer; and
      (2)   Any person that is not a telecommunications retailer that installs,
owns, operates or controls equipment in the public right-of-way that is used or
designed to be used to transmit telecommunications in any form.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER or RETAILER or CARRIER. Every person engaged in
the business of making sales of telecommunications at retail as defined in this
section. The city may, in its discretion, upon application, authorize the
collection of the fee hereby imposed by any retailer not maintaining a place of
business within the state, who, to the satisfaction of the city, furnishes
adequate security to ensure collection and payment of the fee. When so
authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer to pay the fee upon all of
the gross charges for telecommunications in the same manner and subject to the
same requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business in the city.
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS. Includes cellular mobile services, personal
wireless services as defined in § 704(C) of the Telecommunications Act of 1996
(Pub. Law No. 104-104), 42 U.S.C. § 331(c)(7), as now or hereafter amended,
including all commercial mobile radio services and paging services.
(1960 Code, § 43-7-1) (Ord. 6091, passed 3-20-2000)
Editor’s note:
   65 ILCS 5/8-11-17 repealed effective 1-2-2003.
§ 34.021 REGISTRATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS.
   (A)   Every telecommunications provider, as defined by this subchapter,
shall register with the city within 30 days after the effective date of this
subchapter or becoming a telecommunications provider, whichever is later, on a
form to be provided by the city; provided, however, that, any
telecommunications retailer that has filed a return pursuant to §
34.023(C) of this chapter shall be deemed to have registered in accordance with
this section.
   (B)   Every telecommunications provider who has registered with the city
pursuant to division (A) above has an affirmative duty to submit an amended
registration form or current return as required by §
34.023(C) of this chapter, as the case may be, to the city within 30 days from
the date of the occurrence of any changes in the information provided by the
telecommunications provider in the registration form or most recent return on
file with the city.
(1960 Code, § 43-7-2) (Ord. 6091, passed 3-20-2000)
§ 34.022 MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE.
   (A)   A city telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee is hereby
imposed upon all telecommunications retailers in the amount of 1% of all gross
charges charged by the telecommunications retailers to service addresses within
the city for telecommunications originating or received in the city.
   (B)   Upon the effective date of the infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized in this subchapter, the city infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized hereunder shall be the only fee or compensation for the use of all
public rights-of-way within the city by telecommunications retailers.
Imposition of the infrastructure maintenance fee provided under this subchapter
does not, however, serve as a limitation on the levying of any taxes or
imposition of any fees otherwise authorized by law.
   (C)   The city telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee authorized
by this section shall be collected, enforced and administered as set forth in §
34.023 of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 43-7-3) (Ord. 6091, passed 3-20-2000)
§ 34.023 COLLECTION, ENFORCEMENT, AND ADMINISTRATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS
INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEES.
   (A)   A telecommunications retailer shall charge to and collect from each
customer an additional charge in an amount equal to the city infrastructure
maintenance fee attributable to that customer’s service address.
   (B)   Unless otherwise approved by the city, the infrastructure maintenance
fee shall be remitted by the telecommunications retailer to the city not later
than the last day of the month subsequent to the month in which a bill is
issued to the customer; provided, however, that, the telecommunications
retailer may retain an amount not to exceed 2% of the city infrastructure
maintenance fee collected by it to reimburse itself for expenses incurred in
accounting for and remitting the fee.
   (C)   Remittance of the municipal infrastructure fee to the city shall be
accompanied by a return, in a form to be prescribed by the city, which shall
contain such information as the city may reasonably require.
   (D)   Any infrastructure maintenance fee required to be collected pursuant
to this subchapter and any such infrastructure maintenance fee collected by
such telecommunications retailer shall constitute a debt owed by the
telecommunications retailer to the city. The charge imposed under division (A)
above by the telecommunications retailer pursuant to this subchapter shall
constitute a debt of the purchaser to the telecommunications retailer who
provides such services until paid and, if unpaid, is recoverable at law in the
same manner as the original charge for such services.
   (E)   If it shall appear that an amount of infrastructure maintenance fee
has been paid that was not due under the provisions of this subchapter, whether
as a result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any infrastructure maintenance fee due, or to become due,
under this subchapter, from the telecommunications retailer who made the
erroneous payment; provided, however, the city may request, and
telecommunications retailer shall provide, written substantiation for such
credit. However, no claim for such credit may be made more than three years
after the date of the erroneous payment unless:
      (1)   The credit is used only to offset a claim of underpayment made by
the city within the applicable statutory period of limitations; and
      (2)   The credit derives from an overpayment made by the same
telecommunications retailer during the applicable statutory period of
limitations.
   (F)   Amounts paid under this subchapter by telecommunications retailers
shall not be included in the tax base under any of the following acts as
described immediately below:
      (1)   Gross charges for purposes of the Telecommunications Excise Tax
Act;
      (2)   Gross receipts for purposes of the municipal utility tax as
prescribed in 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2;
      (3)   Gross charges for purposes of the municipal telecommunications tax
as prescribed in 65 ILCS 5/8-11-17; and/or
      (4)   Gross revenue for purposes of the tax on annual gross revenue of
public utilities in 220 ILCS 5/2-202 of the Public Utilities Act.
   (G)   The city shall have the right, in its discretion, to audit the books
and records of all telecommunications retailers subject to this subchapter to
determine whether the telecommunications retailer has properly accounted to the
city for the city infrastructure maintenance fee. Any underpayment of the
amount of the city infrastructure maintenance fee due to the city by the
telecommunications retailer shall be paid to the city, plus 6% of the total
amount of the underpayment determined in an audit, plus any costs incurred by
the city in conducting the audit, in an amount not to exceed 6% of the total
amount of the underpayment determined in an audit. Said sum shall be paid to
the city within 21 days after the date of issuance of an invoice for same.
   (H)   The city, or his or her designee, may promulgate such further or
additional regulations concerning the administration and enforcement of this
subchapter consistent with its provisions, as may be required from time to time
and shall notify all telecommunications retailers that are registered pursuant
to §
34.021 of this chapter of such regulations.
(1960 Code, § 43-7-4) (Ord. 6091, passed 3-20-2000)
Editor’s note:
   65 ILCS 5/8-11-17 repealed effective 1-2-2003.
§ 34.024 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall excuse any person or entity from
obligations imposed under any law, including, but not limited to:
   (A)   Generally applicable taxes;
   (B)   Standards for construction on, over, under or within, use of or repair
of the public rights-of-way, including standards relating to free standing
towers and other structures upon the public rights-of-way, as provided;
   (C)   Any liability imposed for the failure to comply with such generally
applicable taxes or standards governing construction on, over, under or within,
use of or repair of the public rights-of-way; and
   (D)   Compliance with any ordinance or provision of this subchapter
concerning uses or structures not located on, over or within the right-of-way.
(1960 Code, § 43-7-5) (Ord. 6091, passed 3-20-2000)
§ 34.025 EXISTING FRANCHISES AND LICENSES.
   Any franchise, license or similar agreements between telecommunications
retailers and the city entered into before the effective date of this
subchapter regarding the use of public rights-of-way shall remain valid
according to and for their stated terms, except for any fees, charges or other
compensation to the extent waived.
(1960 Code, § 43-7-6) (Ord. 6091, passed 3-20-2000)
§ 34.026 PENALTIES.
   Any telecommunications provider who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this subchapter shall be
subject to fine in accordance with the general penalty provisions of the city’s
municipal code.
(1960 Code, § 43-7-7) (Ord. 6091, passed 3-20-2000) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.027 ENFORCEMENT.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the city may have for enforcement of this subchapter.
(1960 Code, § 43-7-8) (Ord. 6091, passed 3-20-2000)
§ 34.028 WAIVER AND FEE IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   The city hereby waives all fees, charges, and other compensation that
may accrue, after the effective date of the waiver, to the city by a
telecommunications retailer pursuant to any existing city franchise, license or
similar agreement with a telecommunications retailer during the time the city
imposes the telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee. This waiver
shall only be effective during the time the infrastructure maintenance fee
provided for in this subchapter is subject to being lawfully imposed on the
telecommunications retailer and collected by the telecommunications retailer
from the customer.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall send a notice of the waiver by certified mail/
return receipt requested to each telecommunications retailer with whom the city
has a franchise.
   (C)   The city infrastructure maintenance fee provided for in this
subchapter shall become effective and imposed on the first day of the month not
less than 90 days after the city provides written notice by certified mail to
each telecommunications retailer with whom the city has an existing franchise,
license or similar agreement that the city waives all compensation under such
existing franchise, license or similar agreement during such time as the fee is
subject to being lawfully imposed and collected by the retailer and remitted to
the city. The infrastructure maintenance fee shall apply to gross charges
billed on or after the effective date as established in the preceding sentence.
(1960 Code, § 43-7-11) (Ord. 6091, passed 3-20-2000)
SPECIFIC TAXES
§ 34.040 UTILITY TAX.
   (A)   Tax imposed. A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following
occupations or privileges:
      (1)   Persons engaged in the business of transmitting messages by means
of electricity, at the rate of 5% of the gross receipts from such business
originating within the corporate limits of the city;
      (2)   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits of
the city, and not for resale, at the rate of 5% of the gross receipts
therefrom;
      (3)   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling water for use or consumption within the city, and not for
resale, at the rate of 5% of the gross receipts therefrom; and
      (4)   No tax imposed by this section, with respect to any transaction and
interstate commerce as enunciated in divisions (A)(1) through (A)(3) above
shall include a tax on any tax.
(1960 Code, § 43-1-1)
   (B)   Exclusions. No tax imposed by this section with respect to any
transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such
business may not, under the Constitution and the statutes of the United States,
be made subject to taxation by the state or any political subdivision thereof;
nor shall any persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas, water or electricity, or engaged in the business of
transmitting messages be subject to taxation under the provisions of this
section for such transactions as are or may become subject to taxation under
the provisions of the Municipal Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act, authorized by 65
ILCS 5/8-11-1.
(1960 Code, § 43-1-2)
   (C)   Tax shall be in addition to other taxes. Such tax shall be in addition
to the payment of money, or value of products or services furnished to this
municipality by the taxpayer as compensation for the use of its streets, alleys
or other public places, or installation and maintenance therein, thereon or
thereunder of poles, wires, pipes or other equipment used in the operation of
the taxpayers’ business.
(1960 Code, § 43-1-3)
   (D)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GROSS RECEIPTS. The consideration received for the transmission of
messages, or for distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling gas,
electricity, or water for use or consumption and not for resale, as the case
may be; except for that consideration received from the city; and for all
services rendered in connection therewith valued in money, whether received in
money or otherwise, including cash, credit, services and property of every kind
and material and for all services rendered therewith; and shall be determined
without any deduction on account of the cost of transmitting said messages
without any deduction on account of the cost of the service, product or
commodity supplied, the cost of materials used, labor or service cost, or any
other expenses whatsoever.
      PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, municipal
corporation or political subdivision of the state, or a receiver, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
      TRANSMITTING MESSAGES. In addition to the usual and popular meaning of
person-to- person communication, shall include the furnishing, for a
consideration of services or facilities (whether owned or leased), or both, to
persons in connection therewith, but shall not include such furnishing of
services or facilities to persons for the transmission of messages to the
extent that any such services or facilities for the transmission of messages
are furnished for a consideration, by such persons to other persons, for the
transmission of messages.
(1960 Code, § 43-1-4)
   (E)   Effective date. This section took effect after publication and the tax
provided for herein shall be based on the gross receipts, as herein defined,
actually paid to the taxpayer for services billed on or after 7-1-1981.
(1960 Code, § 43-1-5)
   (F)   Reports due.
      (1)   On or before 4-30-1981, make a return to the City Treasurer for the
month of July, 1981, stating:
         (a)   His or her name;
         (b)   His or her principal place of business;
         (c)   His or her gross receipts during those months upon the basis of
which the tax is imposed;
         (d)   Amount of tax; and
         (e)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
      (2)   On or before the last day of every month thereafter, each taxpayer
shall make a like return to the City Treasurer for the preceding month.
      (3)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the
time of making such return, pay to the City Treasurer the amount of tax herein
imposed; provided that, in connection with any return the taxpayer may, if he
or she so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his or her total billings
of business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross
receipts.
(1960 Code, § 43-1-6)
   (G)   Tax overpayment; limitations. If it shall appear that an amount of tax
has been paid which was not due under the provisions of this section, whether
as the result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall
be credited against any tax due, or to become due, under this section from the
taxpayer who made the erroneous payment; provided that, no amounts erroneously
paid more than three years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so
credited.
(1960 Code, § 43-1-7)
   (H)   Actions to recover. No action to recover any amount of tax due under
the provisions of this section shall be commenced more than three years after
the due date of such amount.
(1960 Code, § 43-1-8)
(Ord. 3792, passed 5-4-1981; Ord. 3868, passed 3-30-1982; Ord. 6409, passed 4-
1-2002; Ord. 7927, passed 1-19-2016)
§ 34.041 HOME RULE MUNICIPAL AND SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Imposition of tax.
      (1)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling tangible personal property, other than an item of tangible personal
property titled or registered with an agency of the state’s government, at
retail, in the city at the rate of 3/4% of the gross receipts from such sales
made in the course of such business while this code is in effect; and a tax is
hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this municipality in the business of
making sales of service, at the rate of 3/4% of the selling price of all
tangible personal property transferred by such serviceman as an incident to a
sale of service.
      (2)   The imposition of these home rule taxes are in accordance with the
provisions of 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1 and 5/8-11-5.
(1960 Code, § 43-2-1)
   (B)   Administration. The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that
may be assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the
Department of Revenue of the state. The Department of Revenue shall have full
power to administer and enforce the provisions of this code.
(1960 Code, § 43-2-2)
(Ord. 4740, passed 5-21-1990; Ord. 7524, passed 9-19-2011; Ord. 7704, passed 8-
19-2013; Ord. 8102-2017, passed 9-18-2017)
§ 34.042 FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE TAX.
   (A)   License fee. All corporations, companies and associations not
incorporated under the laws of the state, which are engaged in the city in
effecting fire insurance, shall pay to the City Treasurer on July 15 of each
year, a sum equal to 2% of the gross receipts of the premiums received by such
corporation, association or company, or their agency, agent or agents, for
business effected for fire insurance or property situated within the city, for
the year preceding July 1. The sum above named shall be as a tax or license fee
upon all such corporations, companies or associations transacting business
within the city.
(1960 Code, § 43-3-1)
   (B)   Report. Every person acting as an agent or otherwise for or on behalf
of any such corporation, company or association, shall on or before July 15 of
each year, render to the City Clerk a full, true and just account, verified by
oath of all premiums which during the year ending on July 1 preceding were
received by him or her or any other person for him or her, in behalf of such
corporation, company or association and shall fully and specifically set out in
said report, the amount or amounts received as premiums for fire insurance.
(1960 Code, § 43-3-2)
   (C)   Payment to Treasurer. The agent shall also, at the time of making the
above mentioned report, pay to the City Treasurer the tax or license fee
imposed by this section.
(1960 Code, § 43-3-3)
   (D)   Unlawful to do business. If such an account is not rendered on or
before July 15, or if the above mentioned tax or license fees are unpaid after
that day, it shall be unlawful for any such corporation, company or association
to transact any business of fire insurance in the city, until the requirements
hereof are fully complied with. This provision shall not relieve any company,
corporation or association from the payment of any such risk that may be taken
in violation hereof.
(1960 Code, § 43-3-4)
   (E)   Fund. The moneys received under the provisions of this section shall
be paid into the City Treasury and applied for the maintenance, use and benefit
of the Fire Department of the city, and shall form and constitute a fund to be
kept separate by the City Treasurer, and same shall be annually appropriated by
the City Council for the above purpose.
(1960 Code, § 43-3-6)
   (F)   Funds appropriated to Firemen’s Pension Fund. All funds now standing
to the credit of the Foreign Fire Fund be and the same hereby are appropriated
to the Firemen’s Pension Fund.
(1960 Code, § 43-3-7)
   (G)   Use of funds. All sums of money collected henceforth, pursuant to 65
ILCS 5/11-10-1 be set apart and appropriated for the use of the Firemen’s
Pension Fund, for the purpose of pensioning disabled and superannuated members
of the Fire Department, and of the widows and orphans of deceased members of
the Fire Department.
(1960 Code, § 43-3-8)
(Ord. 3014, passed 6-1-1971) Penalty, see §
34.999
§ 34.043 HOTEL/MOTEL AND SHORT-TERM RENTAL TAX.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      HOTEL ROOM or MOTEL ROOM. A room within a structure offered to the public
for rental on a daily basis and containing facilities for sleeping. One room
offered for rental with or without an adjoining bath shall be considered as a
single HOTEL OR MOTEL ROOM. The number of HOTEL OR MOTEL ROOMS within a suite
shall be computed on the basis of those rooms utilized for the purpose of
sleeping.
      OWNER. Any person having an ownership interest in or conducting the
operation of a hotel or motel room or receiving the consideration for the
rental of such hotel or motel room.
      PERSON. Any natural person, trustee, court appointed representative,
syndicate, association, partnership, firm, club, company, corporation, business
trust, institution, agency, government corporation, municipal corporation,
district or other political subdivision, contractor, supplier, vendor, vendee,
operator, user or owner, or any officers, agents, employees or other
representative, acting either for himself or herself or for any other person in
any capacity, or any other entity recognized by law as the subject of rights
and duties. The masculine, feminine, singular or plural in included in any
circumstances.
      SHORT-TERM RENTAL. An owner-occupied or non-owner-occupied single-family
residential abode, including townhomes, condominiums, duplexes and rooming
house dwelling units that are either primarily owner-occupied, except for the
duration of any short-term rental period of 30 days or less, or are owned but
not owner-occupied for the duration of any short-term rental period of 30 days
or less, subject to the requirements of §§ 117.50 through 117.56 of this Code.
   (B)   Tax imposed.
      (1)   There is hereby levied and imposed a tax of 8% of the rent charged
for the privilege and use of renting a hotel or motel room within the city for
each 24-hour period or any portion thereof for which a daily room charge is
made; provided, however, that the tax shall not be levied and imposed upon any
person who works and lives in the same hotel or motel and received living
accommodations as compensation for work performed. Beginning on April 1, 2023,
there is hereby levied and imposed a tax of 8% of the consideration charged for
the privilege and use of a short-term rental within the city.
      (2)   The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of the tax is
to be borne by the person who seeks the privilege of occupying the hotel or
motel room, or short-term rental, said person hereinafter referred to as
“renter”.
      (3)   The tax herein levied shall be paid in addition to any and all
other taxes and charges. It shall be the duty of the owner of every hotel or
motel, or short-term rental, to secure the tax from the renter of the motel or
hotel room, or short-term rental, and to pay over to the City Treasurer or any
authorized representative of the city the tax under procedures prescribed by
the city, or as otherwise provided in this section.
(1960 Code, § 43-4-2)
   (C)   Books and records. The City Treasurer, or authorized representative,
may enter the premises of any hotel or motel, or short-term rental, for
inspection and examination of records in order to effectuate the proper
administration of this section, and to assure the enforcement of the collection
of tax imposed. It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder or
interfere with the City Treasurer or authorized deputy or representative in the
discharge of their duties in the performance of this section. It shall be the
duty of every owner to keep accurate and complete books and records to which
the City Treasurer, or authorized representative, shall at all times have full
access, which records shall include a daily sheet showing:
      (1)   The number of hotel or motel, or short-term rental, rooms rented
during the 24- hour period, including multiple rentals of the same hotel or
motel, or short-term rental, room where such shall occur; and
      (2)   The actual hotel or motel, or short-term rental, tax receipts
collected for the date in question.
(1960 Code, § 43-4-3)
   (D)   Transmittal of tax revenue.
      (1)   Owner or owners of each hotel or motel, or short-term rental,
within the city shall file tax returns showing tax receipts received with
respect to each hotel and motel room, or short-term rental, during the previous
month. The return shall be due on or before the last day of each succeeding
calendar month and the return is to be filed (i.e., return for December tax
receipts due on or before the last day of January).
      (2)   Reporting periods and taxes shall be paid in accordance with the
provisions of this section. At the time of filing the tax returns, the owner
shall pay to the City Treasurer all taxes due for the period to which the tax
return applies.
      (3)   If, for any reason, any tax is not paid when due, a penalty at the
rate of 1-1/2% per 30-day period, or portion thereof, from the date of
delinquency shall be added and collected.
(1960 Code, § 43-4-4)
   (E)   Collection. Whenever any person shall fail to pay any tax as herein
provided, the Corporation Counsel shall, upon the request of the City Treasurer
bring or cause to be brought an action to enforce the payment of the tax on
behalf of the city in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(1960 Code, § 43-4-5)
   (F)   Proceeds of tax and fines. All proceeds resulting from the imposition
of the tax under this section, including penalties, shall be paid into the
General Corporate Fund of the city.
(1960 Code, § 43-4-6)
   (G)   Suspension of licenses. If the Mayor, after hearing held by or for him
or her, shall find that any person has willfully avoided payment of the tax
imposed by this section, he or she may suspend or revoke all city licenses held
by such tax-evader. The owner, manager or operator of the hotel or motel shall
have an opportunity to be heard at such hearing to be held not less than five
days after notice of the time and place of the hearing to be held, addressed to
him or her at his or her last known place of business.
(1960 Code, § 43-4-7)
(Ord. 4775, passed 10-1-1990; Ord. 6996, passed 6-18-2007; Ord. 7893, passed 9-
8-2015; Ord. 9127-2023, passed 2-21-2023)
§ 34.044 ELECTRIC UTILITY TAX.
   (A)   Tax imposed. A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following
occupations or privileges:
      (1)   (a)   The privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired in a
purchase at retail or used or consumed within the corporate limits of the city
at the following rates, calculated on a monthly basis for each purchaser using
an alternative rate promulgated pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2(3) (as modified by
Public Act 90-561):
First 2,000 KWH     0.5135 cents per KWH
Next 48,000 KWH     0.3790 cents per KWH
Next 50,000 KWH     0.3461 cents per KWH
Next 400,000 KWH    0.3076 cents per KWH
Next 500,000 KWH    0.2684 cents per KWH
Next 2,000,000 KWH  0.2683 cents per KWH
Next 2,000,000 KWH  0.2682 cents per KWH
Next 5,000,000 KWH  0.2681 cents per KWH
Next 10,000,000 KWH 0.2680 cents per KWH
Over 20,000,000 KWH 0.2678 cents per KWH
 
         (b)   The privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired in a
purchase at retail or used or consumed within the corporate limits of the city
at the following rates, calculated on a monthly basis for each purchaser using
an alternative rate promulgated pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2(3) (as modified by
Public Act 90-561).
      (2)   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2, the rates set forth in division (A)
(1) above shall be effective:
         (a)   Upon approval by the Illinois Commerce Commission for
residential customers; and
         (b)   For non-residential customers:
            1.   On the date of the first bill issued pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/
16-104, but in no case later than the last bill issued to that customer before
12-31-2000; or
            2.   The date of the first bill issued pursuant to 220 ILCS 5/16-
104, for non-residential customers.
      (3)   Until such time as division (A)(2)(b) above becomes applicable for
non-residential customers pursuant to this division (A)(3), persons engaged in
the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling electricity for
use or consumption within corporate limits of the city, and not for resale, at
a rate of 5% of the gross receipts therefrom for non-residential customers.
      (4)   The tax imposed hereunder shall not apply to any utility accounts
of the city.
(1960 Code, § 43-5-1)
   (B)   Exceptions. None of the taxes authorized by this section may be
imposed with respect to any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to
the extent to which the business or privileges may not, under the Constitution
and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the state
or any political subdivision thereof; nor shall any persons engaged in the
business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling or transmitting gas,
water or electricity, or engaged in the business of transmitting messages, or
using or consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at retail, be subject to
taxation under the provisions of the Municipal Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act
authorized by 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1; nor shall any tax authorized by this section be
imposed upon any person engaged in a business or on any privilege unless the
tax is imposed in like manner and at the same rate upon all persons engaged in
business of the same class in the city, whether privately or municipally owned
or operated, or exercising the same privilege within the city.
(1960 Code, § 43-5-2)
   (C)   Additional taxes. Such tax shall be in addition to other taxes levied
upon the taxpayer or its business.
(1960 Code, § 43-5-3)
   (D)   Collection. The tax authorized by this section shall be collected from
the purchaser by the person maintaining a place of business in the state who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser. This tax shall constitute a debt of
the purchaser to the person who delivers the electricity to the purchaser and
if unpaid, is recoverable in the same manner as the original charge for
delivering the electricity. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this
section and any such tax collected by a person delivering electricity shall
constitute a debt owed to the city by such person delivering the electricity.
Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the purchaser by
adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the electricity. Persons
delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to such gross charge an
amount equal to 3% of the tax to reimburse the person delivering electricity
for the expense incurred in keeping records, billing customers, preparing and
filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data to the city upon request.
If the person delivering electricity fails to collect the tax from the
purchaser, then the purchaser shall be required to pay the tax directly to the
city in the manner prescribed by the city. Persons delivering electricity who
file returns pursuant to this section shall, at the time of filing such return,
pay the city the amount of the tax collected pursuant to this section.
(1960 Code, § 43-5-4)
   (E)   Reports to municipality.
      (1)   On or before the last day of each month, each taxpayer shall make a
return to the City Treasurer for the preceding month stating:
         (a)   His or her name;
         (b)   His or her principal place of business;
         (c)   His or her gross receipts and/or kilowatt-hour usage during the
month upon the basis of which the tax is imposed;
         (d)   Amount of tax; and
         (e)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
      (2)   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the
time of making such return, pay to the city, the amount of tax herein imposed;
provided that, in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he or she so
elects, report and pay an amount based upon his or her total billings of
business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross
receipts.
(1960 Code, § 43-5-5)
   (F)   Credit for over-payment.
      (1)   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was
not due under the provisions of this section, whether as the result of a
mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against
any tax due, or to become due, under this section from the taxpayer who made
the erroneous payment; provided that no amounts erroneously paid more than
three years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited.
      (2)   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of
this section shall be commenced more than three years after the due date of
such amount.
(1960 Code, § 43-5-6)
(Ord. 5883, passed 5-18-1998; Ord. 6409, passed 4-1-2002; Ord. 7928, passed 2-
1-2016)
§ 34.045 F.S.P. SALES TAX.
   (A)   Tax imposed on tangible personal property. A tax is hereby imposed
upon all persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property,
other than an item of tangible personal property titled or registered with an
agency of the state’s government, at retail within the boundaries of the
Business District at the rate of 1% of the gross receipts from such sales made
in the course of such business while this section is in effect; and a tax is
hereby imposed upon all persons engaged within the boundaries of the Business
District in the business of making sales of service, at the rate of 1% of the
selling price of all tangible personal property transferred by such serviceman
as an incident to a sale of service. This Business District retailers’
occupation tax and this Business District service occupation tax shall not be
applicable to the sales of food for human consumption which is to be consumed
off the premises where it is sold (other than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks
and food that has been prepared for immediate consumption) and prescription and
non-prescription medicines, drugs, medical appliances, modifications to a motor
vehicle for the purpose of rendering it usable by a disabled person, and
insulin, urine testing materials, syringes and needles used by diabetics.
(1960 Code, § 43-8-1)
   (B)   Tax on hotel rooms. A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged
in the business of renting, leasing, or letting rooms in a hotel, as defined in
the Hotel Operators’ Occupation Tax Act, being 35 ILCS 145, at a rate of 1% of
the gross rental receipts from the renting, leasing, or letting of hotel rooms
within the Business District, excluding, however, from gross rental receipts
the proceeds of renting, leasing or letting to permanent residents of a hotel,
as defined in the Hotel Operators’ Occupation Tax Act, and proceeds from the
tax imposed under § 13(c) of the Metropolitan Pier and Exposition Authority Act
(70 ILCS 210/13(c)).
(1960 Code, § 43-8-2)
   (C)   Purpose of tax.
      (1)   The imposition of such taxes shall be for the planning, execution
and implementation of the Business District Plan and the revenues from such
taxes shall be applied to payment of the authorized expenditures of the
Business District or to payment of bonds, notes or other obligations (the
“obligations”) issued to fund such expenditures of the Business District. The
taxes shall be in full force and effect until all obligations of the Business
District have been paid in accordance with the Business District Plan.
      (2)   The imposition of these Business District taxes is in accordance
with the provisions of § 11-74.3-6(b), (c) and (d), respectively of the
Illinois Compiled Statutes (65 ILCS 5/11-74.3-6).
(1960 Code, § 43-8-3)
   (D)   Collection and enforcement. The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil
penalties that may be assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and
enforced by the Department of Revenue of the state Department of Revenue shall
have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of this section.
(1960 Code, § 43-8-4)
   (E)   Filing. The City Clerk is hereby directed to file a certified copy of
this section with the Department of Revenue on or before 4-1-2007.
(1960 Code, § 43-8-5)
   (F)   Effective. This section took effect on the first day of July next
following the adoption and filing of this section with the state’s Department
of Revenue.
(1960 Code, § 43-8-6)
   (G)   State statute compliance. This section shall be governed exclusively
by and construed in accordance with the applicable laws of the state.
(1960 Code, § 43-8-8)
   (H)   Delivery of official papers. The Mayor of the City is hereby
authorized and directed to execute and deliver for and on behalf of the city,
and the City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed where appropriate to
attest, all certificates, documents, agreements or other instruments, and the
Mayor of the city or his or her designated representative is hereby authorized
and directed to take any and all actions, as may be necessary, desirable,
convenient or proper to carry out and comply with the provisions of all
agreements or contracts, necessary or reasonably incidental to the
implementation of this section.
(1960 Code, § 43-8-9)
(Ord. 6926, passed 11-6-2006)
§ 34.046 GAS USE TAX.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company,
municipal corporation or political subdivision of the state, or a receiver,
trustee, conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
      PUBLIC UTILITY. A public utility as defined in 220 ILCS 5/3-105 of the
Public Utilities Act.
      PUBLIC UTILITIES ACT. The Public Utilities Act as amended, (220 ILCS 5/1-
101 et seq.).
      RETAIL PURCHASER. Any person who purchases gas in a sale at retail.
      SALE AT RETAIL. Any sale of gas by a retailer to a person for use or
consumption, and not for resale. For this purpose, the term RETAILER means any
person engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or
selling gas.
   (B)   Tax imposed.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided by this section, a tax is imposed on
the privilege of using or consuming gas in the city that is purchased in a sale
at retail at the rate of $0.05/therm. Such tax shall be in addition to other
taxes levied by the city upon the taxpayer.
      (2)   The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of the tax is
on the retail purchaser, and nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to
impose a tax on the occupation of distributing, supplying, furnishing, selling
or transporting gas.
      (3)   The retail purchaser shall pay the tax, measured by therms of gas
delivered to the retail purchaser’s premises, to the public utility designated
to collect the tax pursuant to §
34.045(E) of this chapter on or before the payment due date of the public
utility’s bill first reflecting the tax, or directly to the City Treasurer on
or before the fifteenth day of the second month following the month in which
the gas is delivered to the retail purchaser if no public utility has been
designated to collect the tax pursuant to § 34.035 or if the gas is delivered
by a person other than a public utility so designated.
      (4)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to impose a tax upon
any person, business or activity which, under the constitutions of the United
States or state, may not be made the subject of taxation by the city.
      (5)   A person who purchases gas for resale and therefore does not pay
the tax imposed by this section with respect to the use or consumption of the
gas, but who later uses or consumes part or all of the gas, shall pay the tax
directly to the City Treasurer on or before the fifteenth day of the second
month following the month in which the gas is used or consumed.
      (6)   The tax shall apply to gas for which the delivery to the retail
purchaser is billed by a public utility on or after 12-1-2014.
      (7)   To prevent multiple taxation, the use of gas in the city by a
retail purchaser shall be exempt from the tax imposed by this section if the
gross receipts from the sale at retail of such gas to the retail purchaser are
properly subject to a tax imposed upon the seller of such gas pursuant to the
city’s utility tax under §
34.040, as amended from time to time, authorized pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
      (8)   The tax imposed hereunder shall not apply to any utility accounts
of the city.
   (C)   Collection of tax by public utility. The tax authorized by this
section shall be collected from the retail purchaser by the public utility
providing gas service to the retail purchaser. This tax shall constitute a debt
of the retail purchaser to the public utility providing to the retail purchaser
and if unpaid, is recoverable in the same manner as the original charge for
providing the gas service. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this
section and any such tax collected by a public utility shall constitute a debt
owed to the city by such public utility. Public utilities providing gas service
shall collect the tax from the retail purchaser by adding such tax to the gross
charge for providing the gas service. Public utilities shall also be authorized
to add to such gross charge an amount equal to 3% of the tax to reimburse the
public utility providing gas service for the expense incurred in keeping
records, billing customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and
supplying data to the city upon request. If the public utility providing gas
service fails to collect the tax from the retail purchaser, then the retail
purchaser shall be required to pay the tax directly to the city in the manner
prescribed by the city. Public utilities providing gas service in the city
shall pay the city the amount of the tax collected pursuant to this section.
The Mayor, City Treasurer and City Finance Director are each authorized to
enter into a contract for collection of the tax imposed by this section with
any public utility providing gas service in the city.
   (D)   Books and records. Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and
records, including original source documents and books of entry, denoting the
activities or transactions that gave rise, or may have given rise to any tax
liability or exemption under this section. All such books and records shall, at
all times during business hours, be subject to and available for inspection by
the city.
(Ord. 7820, passed 11-17-2014; Ord. 7927, passed 1-19-2016)
§ 34.047 MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Tax imposed; rate. A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in
the business of selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail in the City
at the rate of 3% of the gross receipts from these sales made in the course of
that business. The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions
of Section 8-11-22 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-22).
   (B)   Collection of tax by retailers. The tax imposed by this section shall
be remitted by such retailer to the Illinois Department of Revenue
(Department). Any tax required to be collected pursuant to or as authorized by
this section and any such tax collected by such retailer and required to be
remitted to the Department shall constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the
state. Retailers may reimburse themselves for their seller's tax liability
hereunder by separately stating that tax as an additional charge, which charge
may be stated in combination, in a single amount, with any state tax that
sellers are required to collect.
   (C)   Administration. The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that
may be assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the
Department. The Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the
provisions of this section.
(Ord. 8376-2019, passed 9-30-2019)
Editor’s note:
   65 ILCS 5/8-11-22 repealed by P.A. 101-604, effective 12-13-2019.
§ 34.048 SELF-SERVICE STORAGE FACILITY ACCOMMODATIONS TAX.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY. The City of Belleville, Illinois.
      GROSS RENTAL RECEIPTS. The total amount of consideration for renting or
leasing self-service storage facilities, valued in money, whether received in
money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits, and property or
services of any kind or nature, including but not limited to, amounts charged
for the making, servicing, or facilitating the renting or leasing of space for
storage.
      OCCUPANT. A person, his sublessee, successor, or assigns, entitled to the
use of the space for storage at a self-service storage facility under a rental
agreement, to the exclusion of others with the corporate limits of the city.
      OWNER. The owner, operator, lessor, or sublessor of a self-service
storage facility, his agent, or any other person authorized by him to manage
the facility, or to receive rent from an occupant under a rental agreement.
      PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint
stock company, joint adventure, public or private, or a receiver, executor,
trustee, guardian or other representative appointed by order of any court.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Movable property not affixed to land, and includes,
but is not limited to, goods, merchandise, motor vehicles, watercraft, and
household items.
      RENTAL AGREEMENT. Any agreement or lease, written or oral, that
establishes or modifies the terms, conditions, rules or any other provisions
concerning the use and occupancy of a self-service storage facility.
      SELF-SERVICE STORAGE FACILITY. Any real property designed and used for
the purpose of renting or leasing individually divided spaces for storage to
occupants to have access to such, for the purpose of storing personal property,
and/or leased or rented personal property.
      SELF-STORAGE. Any space for storage in a self-service storage facility
rented for self-storage.
      SPACE FOR STORAGE.
         (a)   The secure areas, such as rooms, units, lockers, compartments or
containers, whether accessible from outside or from within a building, that are
designated for the use of an occupant, where the occupant can store and
retrieve property, including self-storage units, mini-storage units, and areas
by any other name;
         (b)   Any parking lot, ramp, or parking garage for a vehicle, whether
the vehicle is parked by the operator of the vehicle or by an attendant;
         (c)   Any aircraft parking area, ramp or hanger;
         (d)   Any boat slip, dock, or dry dock;
         (e)   Any recreational vehicle parking area or garage;
         (f)   Any other areas for storage or parking of tangible personal
property.
      STORAGE. The retaining or keeping of tangible personal property in the
city for any purpose.
      TAX. The City of Belleville, Illinois self-service storage facility
accommodations tax.
   (B)   Tax imposed and borne by occupant.
      (1)   There is hereby levied and imposed, and shall accrue beginning on
September 1, 2023, a tax, upon the privilege of renting or leasing self-storage
in self-service storage facilities in the city, at a rate of 5% on the gross
rental or leasing charge. This tax shall be in addition to any and all other
taxes imposed.
      (2)   The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of said tax
shall be borne by the occupant of any such self-storage in a self-service
storage facility. Nothing herein shall be construed to impose a tax upon the
occupation of leasing or operating self-service storage facilities.
      (3)   Each owner of a self-service storage facility shall have the duty
to collect the tax from each lessee and to pay it over to the city along with
an account thereof on the tax reporting forms prescribed by the city.
      (4)   Every owner shall, on a monthly basis, file a return in a form
prescribed by the City Treasurer. However, depending on the volume of the taxes
an owner collects, the owner may be permitted by the City Treasurer to file on
a quarterly, semi-annual, or annual basis in lieu of the prescribed monthly
basis.
      (5)   The return and the tax shall be filed with the City Treasurer by
the fifteenth day of the month following the month in which payment for the tax
has been made.
      (6)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of a self-service storage
facility accommodation to fail to cause said tax to be collected from the
occupant of said self-service storage facility accommodations, file any tax
return required by this chapter, or remit said tax to be paid over to the City
Treasurer under the rules and regulations prescribed by the City Treasurer and
as otherwise provided for in this section.
   (C)   Self-storage facility to secure tax from occupant.
      (1)   The tax herein levied shall be collected by the self-service
storage facility owner from the occupant when collecting the price, charge, or
rent to which it applies. Every occupant shall be given a bill, invoice,
receipt, statement, or memorandum of the price, charge or rent payable upon
which the tax shall be computed and paid to the City Treasurer, as trustee
thereof for and on behalf of the city.
      (2)   (a)   Any tax required to be collected by this section, and any tax
in fact collected, shall constitute a debt owed to the city by the owner of any
self-storage facility, provided that the owner shall be allowed credit for such
tax related to any attempt to collect the tax which are written off as
uncollectable, as provided within §
34.066 of this chapter.
         (b)   For example, the owner shall be allowed a credit for such taxes
charged which are determined to be uncollectable due to nonpayment of rental
charges. The acceptance of such credit, shall be determined by City Treasurer
upon presentation by the owner of true and correct documentation, including an
affidavit, validating such information; provided however, that if the charges
under such accepted credit(s) are thereafter collected, the owner shall be
obligated to remit the tax due on same.
      (3)   If the owner fails to collect the tax from the occupant, then the
occupant shall be obligated to file a return and pay the tax directly to the
city as provided within §
34.048(B).
   (D)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Occupants that have entered into a rental agreement prior to
September 1, 2023, and that have pre-paid their rental fees and accounts under
said pre-existing agreement, are exempt from the tax through the end of such
pre-paid period paid and received by the owner prior to September 1, 2023.
However, any new rental agreement, or renewal of an aforementioned pre-existing
rental agreement after September 1, 2023, shall be subject to tax. If a rental
agreement had been entered into between an owner and an occupant before
September 1, 2023, but had not been pre-paid by the aforementioned effective
date, the rental payments received after September 1, 2023 shall be subject to
the tax. Agreements eligible for this exemption shall be reported and affirmed
in the manner and format prescribed by the City Treasurer.
      (2)   Occupants that are a governmental body or non-profit organizations
as defined under Internal Revenue Service Code (§§ 501 et seq.), including but
not limited to bona fide religious, charitable, labor, business, fraternal,
educational or veterans' organizations that operate without profit to their
members.
      (3)   Owners that are a governmental body or non-profit as provided under
division (D)(2) of this section are exempt from collecting and remitting the
tax, provided that the self-service storage facility is both owned and operated
by said owner. If the storage facility is operated by a third party, whether
under a lease or other contractual arrangement, or held in any other manner
whatsoever, it is not exempt from this tax.
   (E)   Records to be kept.
      (1)   Every owner of a self-service storage facility in the city as
defined in this section shall register with the city in the manner and format
prescribed by the City Treasurer.
      (2)   Each such owner shall have the duty to maintain complete and
accurate books, records, and accounts showing the gross receipts for the lease
of any self-service storage facility accommodations with the city and showing
the prices, rents, or charges made or charged, and occupancies taxable under
this self-service storage facilities accommodations tax. The City Treasurer
shall, at all reasonable times, have full access to said books and records, as
prescribed in §
34.067.
   (F)   Enforcement/license suspension/revocation.
      (1)   Any self-service storage facility that fails to timely pay all
taxes due pursuant to this chapter shall be subject to penalties and interest
as provided in §
34.070.
      (2)   The failure to comply with any obligation imposed by this section
may be grounds for the suspension or revocation of any license or permit issued
to the self-service storage facility, or with respect to the self-service
storage facility, including application(s) for any license or permit requested
but not yet issued.
   (G)   Credits and refunds. Any credit and/or refund issued pursuant to this
section shall be subject to the provisions of §
34.066.
   (H)   Penalty. Any and all penalties assessed pursuant to this section shall
be in accordance with and subject to §
34.999.
(Ord. 9165-2023, passed 6-20-2023)
TAXPAYERS’ RIGHTS CODE
§ 34.060 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the “Locally Imposed
and Administered Tax Rights and Responsibility Code”.
(1960 Code, § 43-6-1) (Ord. 6254, passed 1-16-2001)
§ 34.061 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the city’s procedures in
connection with all of the city’s locally imposed and administered taxes.
(1960 Code, § 43-6-2) (Ord. 6254, passed 1-16-2001)
§ 34.062 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of Rights Act, being 50 ILCS 45/
1 et seq.
   CITY. The City of Belleville, Illinois.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The city’s Mayor and City Council.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The City’s Treasurer, charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR to act in the local Tax Administrator’s stead. The
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
subchapter to give full effect to this subchapter. The exercise of such
authority by the LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR shall not be inconsistent with this
subchapter and the Act.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX or TAX. Each tax imposed by the city
that is collected or administered by the city not an agency or department of
the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
Property Tax Code or fees collected by the city other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
   NOTICE. Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the city’s locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAX ORDINANCE. Each ordinance adopted by the city that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER. Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
city.
(1960 Code, § 43-6-3) (Ord. 6254, passed 1-16-2001)
§ 34.063 NOTICES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given,
the notice is to be in writing mailed not less than seven calendar days prior
to the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of
the local Tax Administrator.
   (B)   The notice shall be sent by the local Tax Administrator as follows:
      (1)   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
person concerned at the persons’ last known address; or
      (2)   Personal service or delivery.
(1960 Code, § 43-6-4) (Ord. 6254, passed 1-16-2001)
§ 34.064 LATE PAYMENT.
   Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
city pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is:
   (A)   Physically received by the city on or before the due date; or
   (B)   Received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid,
readable U.S. postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to
the city, with adequate postage prepaid.
(1960 Code, § 43-6-5) (Ord. 6254, passed 1-16-2001)
§ 34.065 PAYMENT.
   Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order:
   (A)   First to the tax due for the applicable period;
   (B)   Second to the interest due for the applicable period; and
   (C)   Third to the penalty for the applicable period.
(1960 Code, § 43-6-6) (Ord. 6254, passed 1-16-2001)
§ 34.066 CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   The city shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid without
written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally imposed and
administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional by a court
of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed to have paid
the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts upon which to
protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid the taxes
under duress.
   (B)   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
four years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error was
made. The city shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the city.
   (C)   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows.
      (1)   The taxpayer shall submit to the local Tax Administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         (a)   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         (b)   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         (c)   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
cancelled check or receipt for the payment;
         (d)   The taxpayer’s recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         (e)   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however,
that, there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the
taxpayer owes any moneys to the city.
      (2)   Within ten days of the receipt by the local Tax Administrator of
any claim for a refund or credit, the local Tax Administrator shall either:
         (a)   Grant the claim; or
         (b)   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement
as to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      (3)   In the event the local Tax Administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of 5% per annum, based on a year of 365
days and the number of days elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the
date of mailing of a refund check or the grant of a credit.
(1960 Code, § 43-6-7) (Ord. 6254, passed 1-16-2001)
§ 34.067 AUDIT PROCEDURE.
   Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this subchapter.
   (A)   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The tax;
      (2)   The time period of the audit; and
      (3)   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the Auditor.
   (B)   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and, if the
date and time selected by the local Tax Administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within 30 days
after the originally designated audit and during normal business hours.
   (C)   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted no more than 30 days from the date the
notice is given, unless the taxpayer and the local Tax Administrator agreed to
some other convenient time. In the event the taxpayer is unable to comply with
the audit on the date in question, the taxpayer may request another date within
the 30 days, approved in writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the
local Tax Administrator.
   (D)   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer’s
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the city.
   (E)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the city. If the taxpayer or tax
collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the time
provided, the local Tax Administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the Tax Administrator’s determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer’s tax liability.
   (F)   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within 30 days of the
city’s determination of the amount of overpayment.
   (G)   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local Tax Administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax.
(1960 Code, § 43-6-8) (Ord. 6254, passed 1-16-2001)
§ 34.068 APPEAL.
   (A)   The local Tax Administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the local Tax Administrator’s issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      (1)   The reason for the assessment;
      (2)   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      (3)   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      (4)   The obligations of the city during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   (B)   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local Tax
Administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
local Tax Administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting
forth the basis of the taxpayer’s request for a hearing. The written protest
and petition for hearing must be filed with the local Tax Administrator within
45 days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   (C)   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
local Tax Administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within 14 days of receipt of the written protest and petition for hearing,
unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   (D)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
45-day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final
bill due and owing without further notice.
   (E)   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local Tax Administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than 90 days after the expiration of the 45-day period.
(1960 Code, § 43-6-9) (Ord. 6254, passed 1-16-2001)
§ 34.069 HEARING.
   (A)   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under §
34.068 of this chapter, the local Tax Administrator shall conduct a hearing
regarding any appeal.
   (B)   No continuances shall be granted, except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed 14 days.
   (C)   At the hearing, the local Tax Administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
   (D)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local Tax Administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision.
(1960 Code, § 43-6-10) (Ord. 6254, passed 1-16-2001)
§ 34.070 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing,
through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the
time frame otherwise indicated.
   (A)   Interest. The city hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment or non-payment of the tax to be 9% per
annum, based on a year of 365 days and the number of days elapsed.
   (B)   Late filing and payment penalties. If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of 5% of the amount of tax required to be shown as due on a return
shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of 5% of the tax due shall be
imposed. If no return is filed within the time or manner provided by the
controlling tax ordinance and prior to the city issuing a notice of tax
delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file penalty shall be
assessed equal to 25% of the total tax due for the applicable reporting period
for which the return was required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty
shall not apply if a failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling
ordinance.
(1960 Code, § 43-6-11) (Ord. 6254, passed 1-16-2001)
§ 34.071 ABATEMENT.
   The local Tax Administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any
late filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the
local Tax Administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or
failure to make a filing.
(1960 Code, § 43-6-12) (Ord. 6254, passed 1-16-2001)
§ 34.072 INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS.
   The city may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local Tax
Administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local Tax Administrator that the payment is 30 days delinquent, the taxpayer
shall have 14 working days to cure any delinquency. If the taxpayer fails to
cure the delinquency within the 14-day period or fails to demonstrate good
faith in restructuring the installment contract with the local Administrator,
the installment contract shall be canceled without further notice to the
taxpayer.
(1960 Code, § 43-6-13) (Ord. 6254, passed 1-16-2001)
§ 34.073 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The city, through the local Tax Administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have 45 days after receiving notice of the
reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still
due and owing.
   (B)   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four
years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   (C)   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four-year period for
which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the city,
the tax paid was less than 75% of the tax due, the statute of limitations shall
be six years’ maximum after the end of the calendar year in which return for
the applicable period was due or end of the calendar year in which the return
for the applicable period was filed.
   (D)   No statute of limitations shall not apply if a fraudulent tax return
was filed by the taxpayer.
(1960 Code, § 43-6-14) (Ord. 6254, passed 1-16-2001)
§ 34.074 VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE.
   For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment form the
local Tax Administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local Tax Administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of 1% per month, for all periods prior to the filing
of the application, but not more than four years before the date of filing the
application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application may not
be liable for any additional tax, interest or penalty for any period before the
date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly determined
and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the underpaid
tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which case
the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made by no later than 90 days after the filing of the
voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the local Tax
Administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a result of an
underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this section must be
paid within 90 days after a final determination and the exhaustion of all
appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed to by the local Tax
Administrator, whichever is longer.
(1960 Code, § 43-6-15) (Ord. 6254, passed 1-16-2001)
§ 34.075 PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES.
   Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
Internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the City
Clerk’s office.
(1960 Code, § 43-6-16) (Ord. 6254, passed 1-16-2001)
§ 34.076 INTERNAL REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The local Tax Administrator shall establish an internal review
procedure regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes.
Upon a determination by the local Tax Administrator that the lien is valid, the
lien shall remain in full force and effect.
   (B)   If the lien is determined to be improper, the local Tax Administrator
shall:
      (1)   Timely remove the lien at the city’s expense;
      (2)   Correct the taxpayer’s credit record; and
      (3)   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
(1960 Code, § 43-6-17) (Ord. 6254, passed 1-16-2001)
§ 34.077 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement
all of the city’s tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in
conflict with or inconsistent with this subchapter, this subchapter shall be
controlling.
(1960 Code, § 43-6-18) (Ord. 6254, passed 1-16-2001)
INTERESTED PARTIES REGISTRY REGISTRATION RULES
§ 34.090 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Tax Increment Allocation Redevelopment Act, 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-1 et
seq., as amended from time to time.
   CITY. The City of Belleville, Illinois.
   INTERESTED PARTY(IES).
      (1)   Any organization(s) active within the city;
      (2)   Any resident(s) of the city; and
      (3)   Any other entity or person otherwise entitled under the Act to
register in a specific registry who has registered in such registry and whose
registration has not been terminated in accordance with these registration
rules.
   REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA. A redevelopment project area that:
      (1)   Is intended to qualify (or has subsequently qualified) as a
“redevelopment project area” under the Act; and
      (2)   Is subject to the “interested parties” registry requirements of the
Act.
   REGISTRATION FORM. The form appended to these registration rules or such
revised form as may be approved by the city consistent with the requirements of
the Act.
   REGISTRY or REGISTRIES. Each interested parties registry, and all such
registries, collectively, established by the city pursuant to § 11-74.4-4.2 of
the Act for the redevelopment project area.
(Ord. 7841, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 34.091 ESTABLISHMENT OF REGISTRY.
   The city shall establish a separate interested parties registry for each
redevelopment project area, whether existing as of the date of the adoption of
these rules or hereafter established. The city shall establish a new registry
whenever it has identified an area for study and possible designation as a
redevelopment project area; in any event, the process of establishing the new
registry must be completed prior to the deadline for sending any of the notices
required by §
34.099 of this chapter or any other notices required by the Act with respect to
the proposed redevelopment project area.
(Ord. 7841, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 34.092 MAINTENANCE OF REGISTRY.
   (A)   The registries shall be maintained by the City Clerk or his or her
designee.
   (B)   In the event the city determines that someone other than the City
Clerk should maintain the registries, the city may transfer the responsibility
for maintaining the registries to such other department; provided that, the
city:
      (1)   Gives prior written notice to all interested parties not less than
30 days prior to such transfer; and
      (2)   Publishes notice of such transfer in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city.
(Ord. 7841, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 34.093 REGISTRATION BY RESIDENTS.
   (A)   An individual seeking to register as an interested person with respect
to a redevelopment project area must complete and submit a registration form to
the City Clerk.
   (B)   Such individual must also submit a copy of a current driver’s license,
lease, utility bill, financial statement or such other evidence as may be
acceptable to the Clerk to establish the individual’s current city residency.
(Ord. 7841, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 34.094 REGISTRATION BY ORGANIZATIONS.
   An organization seeking to register as an interested person with respect to
a redevelopment project area must complete and submit a registration form to
the City Clerk. Such organization must also submit a copy of a one-page
statement describing the organization’s current operations in the city.
(Ord. 7841, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 34.095 DETERMINATION OF ELIGIBILITY.
   All individuals and organizations whose registration form and supporting
documentation complies with these registration rules shall be registered in the
applicable registry within ten business days of the City Clerk’s receipt of all
such documents. The City Clerk shall provide written notice to the registrant
confirming such registration. Upon registration, interested parties shall be
entitled to receive all notices and documents required to be delivered under
these rules or as otherwise required under the Act with respect to the
applicable redevelopment project area. If the City Clerk determines that a
registrant’s registration form and/or supporting documentation is incomplete or
does not comply with these registration rules, the City Clerk shall give
written notice to the registrant specifying the defect(s). The registrant shall
be entitled to correct any defects and resubmit a new registration form and
supporting documentation.
(Ord. 7841, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 34.096 RENEWAL LAND TERMINATION.
   An interested person’s registration shall remain effective for a period of
three years. At any time after such three-year period, the City Clerk may
provide written notice by regular mail to the interested person stating that
such registration shall terminate unless the interested person renews such
registration within 30 days of the City Clerk’s mailing of written notice. To
renew such registration, the Interested person shall, within such 30-day
period, complete and submit the same registration form and supporting
documentation then required of initial registrants in order to permit the City
Clerk to confirm such person’s residency or such organization’s operations in
the city. The registration of all individuals and organizations whose
registration form and supporting documentation is submitted in a timely manner
and complies with these regulation rules shall be renewed for an additional,
consecutive three-year period. If the City Clerk determines that a registrant’s
renewal registration form and/or supporting documentation is incomplete or does
not comply with these registration rules, the City Clerk shall give written
notice to the registrant at the address specified in the renewal registration
form submitted by such registrant, specifying the defect(s). The registrant
shall be entitled to correct any defects and resubmit a new Registration form
and supporting documentation within 30 days of receipt of the City Clerk’s
notice. If all defects are not corrected within 30 days of the interested
person’s receipt of the City Clerk’s notice, the interested person’s
registration shall be terminated. Any interested person whose registration is
terminated shall be entitled to register again as if a first-time registrant.
(Ord. 7841, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 34.097 AMENDMENT TO REGISTRATION.
   (A)   An interested party may amend its registration by giving written
notice to the City Clerk by certified mail of any of the following:
      (1)   A change in address for notice purposes;
      (2)   In the case of organizations, a change in the name of the contact
person; and
      (3)   A termination of registration.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such notice, the City Clerk shall revise the
applicable registry accordingly.
(Ord. 7841, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 34.098 REGISTRIES AVAILABLE FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   Each registry shall be available for public inspection during normal city
business hours. The registry shall include the name, address and telephone
number of each interested person and for organizations, the name and phone
number of a designated contact person.
(Ord. 7841, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 34.099 NOTICES TO BE SENT TO INTERESTED PARTIES.
   Interested parties shall be sent the following notices and any other notices
required under the Act with respect to the applicable redevelopment project
area:
   (A)   Pursuant to § 74-4-5(a) of the Act, notice of the availability of a
proposed redevelopment plan and eligibility report, including how to obtain
this information, such notice shall be sent by mail within a reasonable period
of time after the adoption of the ordinance fixing the public hearing for the
proposed redevelopment plan;
   (B)   Pursuant to § 74-4.5(a) of the Act, notice of changes to proposed
redevelopment plans that do not add additional parcels of property to the
proposed redevelopment project area, substantially affect the general land uses
proposed in the redevelopment plan, substantially change the nature of or
extend the life of the redevelopment project, or increase the number of low or
very low income households to be displaced from the redevelopment project area,
provided that measured from the time of creation of the redevelopment project
area the total displacement of households will exceed ten; such notice shall be
sent by mail not later than ten days following the city’s adoption by ordinance
of such changes;
   (C)   Pursuant to § 74-4-5(c) of the Act, notice of amendments to previously
approved redevelopment plans that do not: add additional parcels of property to
the redevelopment project area; substantially affect the general land uses in
the redevelopment plan; substantially change the nature of the redevelopment
project; increase the total estimated redevelopment project costs set out in
the redevelopment plan by more than 5% after adjustment for inflation from the
date the plan was adopted; add additional redevelopment project costs to the
itemized list of redevelopment project costs set out in the redevelopment plan;
or increase the number of low or very low income households to be displaced
from the redevelopment project area; provided that, measured from the time of
creation of the redevelopment project area the total displacement of households
will exceed ten; such notice shall be sent by mail not later than ten days
following the city’s adoption by ordinance of any such amendment;
   (D)   Pursuant to § 74.4-5(d)(9) of the Act for redevelopment plans or
projects that would result in the displacement of residents from ten or more
inhabited residential units or that contain 75 or more inhabited residential
units, notice of the availability of the annual report described by § 74.4-5
(d), including how to obtain the annual report; such notice shall be sent by
mail within a reasonable period of time after completion of the certified audit
report; and
   (E)   Pursuant to § 74.4-6(e) of the Act, notice of the preliminary public
meeting required under the Act for a proposed redevelopment project area that
will result in the displacement of ten or more inhabited residential units or
which will contain 75 or more inhabited residential units, such notice shall be
sent by certified mail not less than 15 days before the date of such
preliminary public meeting.
(Ord. 7841, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 34.100 NON-INTERFERENCE.
   These registration rules shall not be used to prohibit or otherwise
interfere with the ability of eligible organizations and individuals to
register for receipt of information to which they are entitled under the Act.
(Ord. 7841, passed 1-20-2015)
§ 34.101 AMENDMENT OF REGISTRATION RULES.
   These registration rules may be amended by the city subject to and
consistent with the requirements of the Act.
(Ord. 7841, passed 1-20-2015)
GENERAL ASSISTANCE FUND AND GENERAL TOWN FUND
§ 34.120 CREATION AND COMPOSITION OF GENERAL ASSISTANCE FUND.
   There is hereby created an account of the city which shall be known as the
General Assistance Fund. This fund shall be administered by the Director of
Human Resources and Community Development or his/her designee and as set forth
in §
32.180 of this Code, as contemplated under Section 28-15 of the Illinois
Township Code (60 ILCS 1/28-15) and Section 12-3.1 of the Illinois Public Aid
Code (305 ILCS 5/12-3.1). This fund shall consist of such estimated tax
revenues, actual revenues, appropriations and expenditures for general
assistance and emergency assistance services for the residents of the city.
Pursuant to Section 235/20 of the Illinois Township Code (60 ILCS 1/235-20) as
applicable under Section 28-10 of the Illinois Township Code (60 ILCS 1/28-10),
this fund shall receive tax revenues in accordance with the annual tax levy
ordinance and any ordinances or resolutions required by law. All revenues and
appropriations that exist in the Belleville Township General Assistance Fund,
as of 11:59 p.m., May 15, 2017, shall be transferred by operation of law into
this City General Assistance Fund.
(Ord. 8047-2017, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 34.121 CREATION AND COMPOSITION OF GENERAL TOWN FUND.
   There is hereby created an account of the city which shall be known as the
General Town Fund. This fund shall be administered by the Director of Human
Resources and Community Development or his/her designee and as set forth in §
32.180 of this Code, as contemplated under Section 28-15 of the Illinois
Township Code (60 ILCS 1/28-15). This fund shall consist of such estimated tax
revenues, actual revenues, appropriations and expenditures for community
assistance contemplated under the Illinois Township Code, including but not
limited to senior citizens' services, youth services, mental health services,
services in cooperation with another governmental entity, not-for-profit
corporation or nonprofit community service association (health, social services
for the poor and aged, public transportation/paratransit services) and any
other community services and/or purpose authorized by law. Pursuant to Section
235/5 of the Illinois Township Code (60 ILCS 1/235-5) as applicable under
Section 28-10 of the Illinois Township Code (60 ILCS 1/28-10), this fund shall
receive tax revenues in accordance with the annual tax levy ordinance and any
ordinances or resolutions required by law. All revenues and appropriations that
exist in the Belleville Township General Town Fund, as of 11:59 p.m., May 15,
2017, shall be transferred by operation of law into this City General Town
Fund.
(Ord. 8047-2017, passed 5-15-2017)
CREDIT CARD PAYMENTS
§ 34.130 ACCEPTANCE OF CREDIT CARD PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to Section 20 of the Illinois Local Governmental Acceptance
of Credit Cards Act (50 ILCS 345/20), and in the best interests of the citizens
and administration of the city, City Council hereby elects to accept credit
card payments for all types of authorized obligations to the city as defined in
Section 10 of the Illinois Local Governmental Acceptance of Credit Cards Act
(50 ILCS 345/10), subject to any convenience fee or surcharge upon a cardholder
permissible under Section 25 of the Illinois Local Governmental Acceptance of
Credit Cards Act (50 ILCS 345/25) as imposed by the City Treasurer.
   (B)   City Council hereby authorizes and directs the City Treasurer to
implement uniform rules as to the manner of acceptance of credit cards payments
to the city as authorized herein in accordance with the Illinois Local
Governmental Acceptance of Credit Cards Act (50 ILCS 345/1 et seq.).
(Ord. 8105-2017, passed 10-2-2017)
§ 34.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent
return, or who willfully violates any other provisions of §
34.040 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than $500; and, in addition, shall
be liable in a civil action for the amount of tax due.
(1960 Code, § 43-1-9)
   (C)   If any such corporation, company or association fails to render the
report, per §
34.042 of this chapter, designated by the day required, or if the above
mentioned rates as a tax or license fee remains unpaid after the day
designated, every such corporation, company or association shall forfeit and
pay to the city the sum of $200 upon conviction for each offense; and, in
addition to such penalty, the city shall recover in action, in its name, for
its use, against such corporation, company or association the full amount of
the tax or license fee which would be due under the provisions of §
34.042 of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 43-3-5)
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation found willfully guilty of failing to
pay, collect, report and transmit the hotel or motel tax to the City Treasurer
in accordance with the terms of §
34.043 of this chapter shall, except when otherwise specifically provided, upon
conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 for each offense.
A separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each day upon
which said person shall continue any such violation, or permit any such
violation to exist after notification thereof.
(1960 Code, § 43-4-8)
   (E)   Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent
return, or who willfully violates any other provision of §
34.044 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than $200; and, in addition, shall
be liable in a civil action for the amount of tax due.
(1960 Code, § 43-5-7)
   (F)   Any retail purchaser who willfully violates any provision of §
34.046 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than $200; and, in addition, shall
be liable in a civil action for the amount of tax due.
(Ord. 3792, passed 5-4-1981; Ord. 4775, passed 10-1-1990; Ord. 5883, passed 5-
18-1998; Ord. 7820, passed 11-17-2014)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SEWERS
      
51.   INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT
CHAPTER 50: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Short title
   
50.002   Definitions
   
50.003   Director of Wastewater Treatment and Sewer Lines
   
50.004   Ground water as a potable water
User Charges
   
50.015   Basic charges for all users of city sewers
   
50.016   Separate water supply
   
50.017   Meter deduction
   
50.018   New users
   
50.019   Surcharge to industrial users
   
50.020   Annual review
   
50.021   Lien rights, collection and occupancy permit
   
50.022   Service disconnected
   
50.023   Sewer lateral repair program installation and connection
Sewer Extensions
   
50.035   Construction contracts
   
50.036   Approved plans and permits
   
50.037   Certification
   
50.038   Testing
   
50.039   “Record” drawings
   
50.040   Final inspection
   
50.041   Sewer maintenance bond
   
50.042   Pump station design standards
Use of Public Sewers
   
50.055   Pretreatment
   
50.056   Use of public sewer
Building Sewers, Permits and Connections
   
50.070   Costs
   
50.071   Permits
   
50.072   Connection fees
Inspections
   
50.085   Inspections
   
50.086   Powers and authority of inspectors
Collection, Deposit and Lien
   
50.100   Supervisor of sewer collections
   
50.101   Lien rights
Construction Requirements
   
50.115   Material requirements
   
50.116   Connections to the city sewer
   
50.117   Testing
   
50.118   Connection
 
   
50.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as “Sewer Code of the City of
Belleville”.
(1960 Code, § 38-1-1)
§ 50.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, being 33
U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., and regulations implementing said Act.
   ADMINISTRATION. The Administration of the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency.
   APARTMENT. Any structure containing two or more dwelling units.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C expressed in parts per million by weight.
   BUILDING SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries only sewage and industrial
wastes from the building plumbing to the public sanitary sewer.
   BUILDING STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm drainage, surface water,
foundation drainage and roof drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial
wastes from the building plumbing to a public storm sewer or natural outlet.
   CITY. The City of Belleville; and, any reference to WITHIN THE CITY shall
mean all territory within the perimeter of the city boundaries or jurisdiction.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage. Any
modification to, addition to or improvement of a combined sewer line shall be
designed to effectively and efficiently carry the 20-year storm event, as
defined in the State Department of Transportation’s Design Manuals for the
Belleville area.
   COMMERCIAL CUSTOMER. All commercial establishments.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit.
   DIRECTOR OF WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND SEWER LINES. The Director of Wastewater
Treatment and Sewer Lines of the city or his or her authorized deputy, agent or
representative.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FEDERAL GRANT. United States government participation in the financing of
the construction treatment works as provided for by the Title II Grants for
Construction of Treatment Works of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1281 et seq.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the waste water does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food
and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   Any non-governmental user of publicly-owned treatment works
identified in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, Office of
Management and Budget, as amended and supplemented, under the following
divisions:
         (a)   Division A - Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing;
         (b)   Division B - Mining;
         (c)   Division D - Manufacturing;
         (d)   Division E - Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary Services; and
         (e)   Division I - Services.
      (2)   A user in the divisions listed may be excluded if it is determined
by the Director that it will introduce primarily segregated domestic wastes or
wastes from sanitary conveniences. Governmental users are excluded from the
purposes of the industrial cost recovery, but are included along with non-
governmental users for the purposes of the user charge system.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant which is not a compatible pollutant,
as herein defined.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastes from industries, trades or businesses as
distinguished from employee’s domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industrial user of the publicly-owned
treatment works that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 25,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under § 307(A) of the Act; or
      (4)   Is found by the permit issuance authority, in connection with the
issuance of an NPDES permit to the publicly-owned treatment works receiving the
waste to have a significant impact either singly or in combination with other
contributing industries on that treatment works or upon the quantity of
effluent from that treatment works.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a water course, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER. A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 g of the constituent in 1,000 ml of water. It has
replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million, to which it is
approximately equivalent in reporting the results of water and wastewater
analysis.
   NPDES PERMIT. Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by
the Administrator or other appropriate authority, or where appropriate by the
Director, after enactment of the Federal Water Pollution Control Amendments of
1972, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., to regulate the discharge of pollutants
pursuant to § 402 of the Act.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   ppm. Parts per million by weight.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of waste waters from sources before introduction
into the waste water treatment works.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and obligations and is controlled by public authority.
   REGIONAL ADMINISTRATOR. The U.S. EPA office which is required by law to
approve a system of industrial cost recovery.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. The term “operation and maintenance” includes
REPLACEMENT.
   RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER. Single-family dwellings.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of the water carried from wastes from
residences, business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. The facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   STORM DRAIN. A storm sewer, as herein defined.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters and drainage,
but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds, for any
period or duration longer than 15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS). Solids that either float on the surface of, or
are in the suspension in, water, sewage or other liquids and which are
removable by laboratory filtering.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water on quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and waste water treatment facilities provided.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation and maintenance including replacement, but shall not include a
capital cost charge.
   USER CLASS. The type of user as determined by waste characteristics and
process or discharge similarities.
   USEFUL LIFE. The estimated period during which the treatment works will be
operated and shall be 30 years from the date of start-up of any wastewater
facilities constructed with a federal grant.
   WASTEWATER (SEWAGE). The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of
course, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
the any ground water, surface water and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the
effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(1960 Code, § 38-1-2) (Ord. 3633, passed 7-17-1979; Ord. 5143, passed 11-1-
1993; Ord. 5312, passed 9-19-1994)
§ 50.003 DIRECTOR OF WASTEWATER TREATMENT AND SEWER LINES.
   (A)   (1)   There is hereby created the Office of Director of Wastewater
Treatment and Sewer Lines for the city, who shall herein be referred to as
“Director”.
      (2)   At the first regular meeting of the City Council after the election
of Mayor, or as soon thereafter as is possible, the Mayor shall appoint,
subject to the approval of the City Council, a Director who shall hold office
until a successor is appointed and shall have qualified.
      (3)   The salary of the Director shall be fixed by resolution of the City
Council at the time of his or her appointment.
   (B)   (1)   The Director shall have general supervision of the public sewers
tributary to the sewage treatment plants as well as the sewage treatment plants
themselves. He or she shall ascertain the conditions and needs thereof and
shall from time to time report the same to the City Council.
      (2)   The Director shall keep proper records of the location of all
sewers, Y branches and building sewer connections and the condition of private
sewage disposal systems and building sewers. He or she shall also have the
duties specifically set forth in this chapter and shall have authority to
supervise the construction of private sewage disposal systems and the
construction and installation of building sewers and to issue permits therefor.
      (3)   The Director shall be responsible for the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter and he or she is hereby authorized to make such
inspections, observations, measurements, samplings and tests as may be
necessary in that regard and is authorized to enter upon any property for that
purpose.
   (C)   The Director, whenever necessary, with regard to discharge or proposed
discharge of industrial wastes into any sewer, shall have the right to:
      (1)   Reject the wastes in whole or in part for any reason deemed
appropriate by him or her;
      (2)   Require pretreatment of such wastes to within the limits of normal
sewage; and
      (3)   Require payment of a surcharge on any excessive flows or loadings
discharged to the treatment works to cover the additional costs of having
capacity for and treating such wastes.
(1960 Code, § 38-2-1) (Ord. 5203, passed 1-17-1994)
§ 50.004 GROUND WATER AS A POTABLE WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   Prohibited. Except for such uses or methods in existence before the
effective date of Ordinance No. 9342-2024, the use or attempt to use
groundwater as a potable water supply, by the installation or drilling of wells
or by any other method is hereby prohibited within the portion of the city
depicted and referred to in Figure 1, attached to Ordinance No. 9342-2024 and
incorporated herein by reference, as “The Groundwater Limitation Area.”
(1960 Code, § 38-11-1)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
limited liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company,
trust, estate, political subdivision or any legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.
      POTABLE WATER. Any water used for human or domestic consumption,
including, but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming,
washing dishes or preparing foods.
(1960 Code, § 38-11-3)
   (C)   Penalty. Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
subject to a fine of up to $500 for each violation.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-48) (Ord. 6911, passed 8-21-2006; Am. Ord. 6912, passed 8-
21-2006; Am. Ord. 6919, passed 9-18-2006; Am. Ord. 7311, passed 9-21-2009; Am.
Ord. 7437, passed 10-4-2010; Am. Ord. 7484, passed 9-14-2011; Am. Ord. 7485,
passed 4-18-2011; Am. Ord. 7517, passed 10-4-2010; Am. Ord. 7550, passed 12-19-
2011; Am. Ord. 7574, passed 2-21-2012; Am. Ord. 7595, passed 5-7-2012; Am. Ord.
7642, passed 11-19-2012; Am. Ord. 7857, passed 5-18-2015; Am. Ord. 7946, passed
4-18-2016; Am. Ord. 7977- 2016, passed 8-15-2016; Am. Ord. 8192-2018, passed 5-
7-2018; Am. Ord. 8197-2018, passed 5-7-2018; Am. Ord. 8413-2020, passed 1-21-
2020; Am. Ord. 8841-2020, passed 7-6-2020; Am. Ord. 8915-2021, passed 3-15-
2021; Am. Ord. 9039-2022, passed 5-2-2022; Am. Ord. 9342-2024, passed 11-18-
2024; Am. Ord. 9394-2025, passed 6-17-2025)
USER CHARGES
§ 50.015 BASIC CHARGES FOR ALL USERS OF CITY SEWERS.
   (A)   Rates and charges. Rates and charges for the use and service of the
sewage system of the city are hereby established. The owner, renter or the
management company of each lot, parcel of land or premises shall be liable to
pay for the service on said lot, parcel of land or premises. Such charges and
rates shall be made against any such lot, parcel of land or premises which may
discharge sewage or industrial waste, either directly or indirectly, into said
system or any part thereof. Such charges and rates shall be based upon the
quantity of water used thereon or therein as such quantity may be measured by
the water meter or meters of the Illinois American Water Company serving such
lot, parcel of land or premises. Unless the City Treasurer or a designee
determines that the city's interest is best served by sending a sewer bill to a
renter, the sewer bill shall be sent to the owner or management company of the
lot, parcel of land or premises. The municipal fee for the collection of
residential refuse also shall be provided via the same vehicle as the sewer
bill. The following rates shall be charged for sewer service to users of city
sewers based upon metered water consumption.
      (1)   Monthly residential billing.
         (a)   Effective for bills generated on or after 5-1-2016, a monthly
base charge of $7.50 will be applied to all bills. In addition to the base
charge, unit rates will be added as prescribed below based on the unit of
measure provided by Illinois American Water.
 
CCF Units of Usage
1—3         $3.75 a unit
4—16        $4.57 a unit
17—33       $3.81 a unit
34 and beyond $3.75 a unit
 
 
DCF Units of Usage
1—30         $0.375 a unit
31—160       $0.457 a unit
161—330      $0.381 a unit
331 and beyond $0.375 a unit
 
 
CGL Units of Usage
1—22         $0.5114 a unit
23—119       $0.6125 a unit
120—246      $0.5100 a unit
247 and beyond $0.4980 a unit
 
         (b)   Effective for bills generated on or after May 1 of each fiscal
year from 2016/2017 to 2025/2026, the monthly base charge and unit rates will
increase 8% annually from the immediate preceding fiscal year's base charge and
unit rates. On accounts whose usage is being reported on the CCF unit of
measure refer to Exhibit A-1 at the end of this section for the applicable
rates. On accounts whose usage is being reported on the DCF unit of measure
refer to Exhibit A-2 at the end of this section for the applicable rates. On
accounts whose usage is being reported on the CGL unit of measure refer to
Exhibit A-3 at the end of this section for the applicable rates.
         (c)   Effective for bills generated on or after May 1 of each fiscal
year from 2026/2027 to 2046/2047, the monthly base charge and unit rates will
increase 1% annually from the immediate preceding fiscal year's base charge and
unit rates. On accounts whose usage is being reported on the CCF unit of
measure refer to Exhibit A-1 at the end of this section for the applicable
rates. On accounts whose usage is being reported on the DCF unit of measure
refer to Exhibit A-2 at the end of this section for the applicable rates. On
accounts whose usage is being reported on the CGL unit of measure refer to
Exhibit A-3 at the end of this section for the applicable rates.
         (d)   When a lot, parcel of land or premises is connected to the city
sewer system but is not metered by the Illinois American Water Company, the
owner or the management company shall be charged in accordance with the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA) consumption guidelines in place
for the fiscal year the service is rendered, at one and one-half times the
current rate for city residents.
         (e)   All sewer users not living within the city limits will be
charged at one and one-half times the current rate. See Exhibits A-1 and A-2 at
the end of this section.
      (2)   Monthly commercial billing.
         (a)   Effective for bills rendered on or after 5-1-2016, a monthly
base charge of $11.64 will be applied to all bills. In addition to the base
charge, unit rates will be added as prescribed below based on the unit of
measure provided by Illinois American Water.
 
CCF Units of Usage
1—19         $4.01 a unit
20—99        $3.84 a unit
100—499      $3.74 a unit
500 and beyond $3.58 a unit
 
 
DCF Units of Usage
1—190          $0.401 a unit
191—990        $0.384 a unit
991—4,990      $0.374 a unit
4,991 and beyond $0.358 a unit
 
 
CGL Units of Usage
1—142          $0.5365 a unit
143—740        $0.5137 a unit
741—3,739      $0.5000 a unit
3,740 and beyond $0.4784 a unit
 
         (b)   Effective for bills generated on or after May 1 of each fiscal
year from 2016/2017 to 2025/2026, the monthly base charge and unit rates will
increase 8% annually from the immediate preceding fiscal year's base charge and
unit rates. On accounts whose usage is being reported on the CCF unit of
measure refer to Exhibit B-1 at the end of this section for the applicable
rates. On accounts whose usage is being reported on the DCF unit of measure
refer to Exhibit B-2 at the end of this section for the applicable rates. On
accounts whose usage is being reported on the CGL unit of measure refer to
Exhibit B-3 at the end of this section for the applicable rates.
         (c)   Effective for bills generated on or after May 1 of each fiscal
year from 2026/2027 to 2046/2047, the monthly base charge and unit rates will
increase 1% annually from the immediate preceding fiscal year's base charge and
unit rates. On accounts whose usage is being reported on the CCF unit of
measure refer to Exhibit B-1 at the end of this section for the applicable
rates. On accounts whose usage is being reported on the DCF unit of measure
refer to Exhibit B-2 at the end of this section for the applicable rates. On
accounts whose usage is being reported on the CGL unit of measure refer to
Exhibit B-3 at the end of this section for the applicable rates.
         (d)   When a lot, parcel of land or premises is connected to the city
sewer system but is not metered by the Illinois American Water Company, the
owner or the management company shall be charged in accordance with the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (IEPA) consumption guidelines in place
for the fiscal year the service is rendered, at one and one-half times the
current rate for city residents.
         (e)   All sewer users not living within the city limits of Belleville
will be charged at one and one-half times the current rate. (See Exhibit B-
1 and B-2 at the end of this section.)
(1960 Code, § 38-11-1)
   (B)   Each meter to be a separate billing unit. Each meter shall be
considered a separate billing unit in applying the above rates; provided,
however, that in case a single enterprise located on contiguous property is
served by more than one such water meter and the amount of water shown on each
of the several meters shall in each case exceed 80,000 cubic feet or 598,400
CGL in any month, then the amount of water shown to have been consumed by such
meters shall be totaled and the rates and charges shall be based upon the
aggregate amount of water shown by all such meters.
   (C)   Attorney's fees. In the event that rates and charges for the use and
service of the sewage system of the city are not paid by the owner, occupant or
user of said lot, parcel of land or premises as provided for in divisions (A)
(1) and (A)(2) above, then the city shall be entitled to collect, in addition
to the basic charges enumerated in this section, reasonable attorney's fees and
costs of collection.
   (D)   Post judgment legal work. In addition to attorney's fees provided for
in division (C) above, in the event that the city undertakes any legal work
concerning the owner, occupant or user not paying rates and charges levied by
the city, and the city incurs post judgment legal work, the city shall be
entitled to recover any and all attorney's fees and costs associated with post
judgment legal work.
Exhibit A-1
Residential Rate Structure - CCF (100 Cubic Feet/748 Gallons)
Fiscal Year Rate Increase Base 1—3 Unit4-16 Units 17-33 Units 34 and Beyond
                                                                Units
Exhibit A-1
Residential Rate Structure - CCF (100 Cubic Feet/748 Gallons)
Fiscal Year Rate Increase Base   1—3 Unit4-16 Units 17-33 Units 34 and Beyond
                                                                  Units
2013/14     8%            $5.95  $2.97     $3.63      $3.03       $2.97
2014/15     8%            $6.43  $3.21     $3.92      $3.27       $3.21
2015/16     8%            $6.94  $3.47     $4.23      $3.53       $3.47
2016/17     8%            $7.50  $3.75     $4.57      $3.81       $3.75
2017/18     8%            $8.10  $4.05     $4.94      $4.11       $4.05
2018/19     8%            $8.75  $4.37     $5.34      $4.44       $4.37
2019/20     8%            $9.45  $4.72     $5.77      $4.80       $4.72
2020/21     8%            $10.21 $5.10     $6.23      $5.18       $5.10
2021/22     8%            $11.03 $5.51     $6.73      $5.59       $5.51
2022/23     8%            $11.91 $5.95     $7.27      $6.04       $5.95
2023/24     8%            $12.86 $6.43     $7.85      $6.52       $6.43
2024/25     8%            $13.89 $6.94     $8.48      $7.04       $6.94
2025/26     8%            $15.00 $7.50     $9.16      $7.60       $7.50
2026/27     1%            $15.15 $7.57     $9.25      $7.68       $7.57
2027/28     1%            $15.30 $7.66     $9.34      $7.76       $7.66
2028/29     1%            $15.45 $7.74     $9.43      $7.84       $7.74
2029/30     1%            $15.60 $7.82     $9.52      $7.92       $7.82
2030/31     1%            $15.76 $7.90     $9.62      $8.00       $7.90
2031/32     1%            $15.92 $7.98     $9.72      $8.08       $7.98
2032/33     1%            $16.08 $8.06     $9.82      $8.16       $8.06
2033/34     1%            $16.24 $8.14     $9.92      $8.24       $8.14
2034/35     1%            $16.40 $8.22     $10.02     $8.32       $8.22
2035/36     1%            $16.56 $8.30     $10.12     $8.40       $8.30
2036/37     1%            $16.73 $8.38     $10.22     $8.48       $8.38
2037/38     1%            $16.90 $8.46     $10.32     $8.56       $8.46
2038/39     1%            $17.07 $8.54     $10.42     $8.65       $8.54
2039/40     1%            $17.24 $8.63     $10.52     $8.74       $8.63
2040/41     1%            $17.41 $8.72     $10.63     $8.83       $8.72
2041/42     1%            $17.58 $8.81     $10.74     $8.92       $8.81
2042/43     1%            $17.76 $8.90     $10.85     $9.01       $8.90
2043/44     1%            $17.94 $8.99     $10.96     $9.10       $8.99
2044/45     1%            $18.12 $9.08     $11.07     $9.19       $9.08
2045/46     1%            $18.30 $9.17     $11.18     $9.28       $9.17
2046/47     1%            $18.48 $9.26     $11.29     $9.37       $9.26
 
Exhibit A-2
Residential Rate Structure - DCF (10 Cubic Feet/74.8 Gallons)
Fiscal Year Rate     Base 1—30 Unit31-160 Units 161-330 Units 331 and
            Increase                                            Beyond Units
Exhibit A-2
Residential Rate Structure - DCF (10 Cubic Feet/74.8 Gallons)
Fiscal Year Rate     Base   1—30 Unit31-160 Units 161-330 Units 331 and
            Increase                                              Beyond Units
2016/17     8%       $7.50  $0.375     $0.457       $0.381        $0.375
2017/18     8%       $8.10  $0.405     $0.494       $0.411        $0.405
2018/19     8%       $8.75  $0.437     $0.534       $0.444        $0.437
2019/20     8%       $9.45  $0.472     $0.577       $0.480        $0.472
2020/21     8%       $10.21 $0.510     $0.623       $0.518        $0.510
2021/22     8%       $11.03 $0.551     $0.673       $0.559        $0.551
2022/23     8%       $11.91 $0.595     $0.727       $0.604        $0.595
2023/24     8%       $12.86 $0.643     $0.785       $0.652        $0.643
2024/25     8%       $13.89 $0.694     $0.848       $0.704        $0.694
2025/26     8%       $15.00 $0.750     $0.916       $0.760        $0.750
2026/27     1%       $15.15 $0.757     $0.925       $0.768        $0.757
2027/28     1%       $15.30 $0.766     $0.934       $0.776        $0.766
2028/29     1%       $15.45 $0.774     $0.943       $0.784        $0.774
2029/30     1%       $15.60 $0.782     $0.952       $0.792        $0.782
2030/31     1%       $15.76 $0.790     $0.962       $0.800        $0.790
2031/32     1%       $15.92 $0.798     $0.972       $0.808        $0.798
2032/33     1%       $16.08 $0.806     $0.982       $0.816        $0.806
2033/34     1%       $16.24 $0.814     $0.992       $0.824        $0.814
2034/35     1%       $16.40 $0.822     $0.1002      $0.832        $0.822
2035/36     1%       $16.56 $0.830     $0.1012      $0.840        $0.830
2036/37     1%       $16.73 $0.838     $0.1022      $0.848        $0.838
2037/38     1%       $16.90 $0.846     $0.1032      $0.856        $0.846
2038/39     1%       $17.07 $0.854     $0.1042      $0.865        $0.854
2039/40     1%       $17.24 $0.863     $0.1052      $0.874        $0.863
2040/41     1%       $17.41 $0.872     $0.1063      $0.883        $0.872
2041/42     1%       $17.58 $0.881     $0.1074      $0.892        $0.881
2042/43     1%       $17.76 $0.890     $0.1085      $0.901        $0.890
2043/44     1%       $17.94 $0.899     $0.1096      $0.910        $0.899
2044/45     1%       $18.12 $0.908     $0.1107      $0.919        $0.908
2045/46     1%       $18.30 $0.917     $0.1118      $0.928        $0.917
2046/47     1%       $18.48 $0.926     $0.1129      $0.937        $0.926
 
Exhibit A-3
Residential Rate Structure - CGL (100 Gallons)
Fiscal Year Rate Increase Base 1—22 Unit23—119 Unit120—246 Unit247 and
                                                                     Beyond
Exhibit A-3
Residential Rate Structure - CGL (100 Gallons)
Fiscal Year Rate Increase Base   1—22 Unit23—119 Unit120—246 Unit247 and
                                                                       Beyond
2013/14     8%            -      -          -            -             -
2014/15     8%            -      -          -            -             -
2015/16     8%            -      -          -            -             -
2016/17     8%            $7.50  0.5114     0.6125       0.5100        0.4980
2017/18     8%            $8.10  0.5523     0.6621       0.5502        0.5379
2018/19     8%            $8.75  0.5959     0.7157       0.5943        0.5804
2019/20     8%            $9.45  0.6436     0.7733       0.6425        0.6269
2020/21     8%            $10.21 0.6955     0.8349       0.6934        0.6773
2021/22     8%            $11.03 0.7514     0.9020       0.7483        0.7318
2022/23     8%            $11.91 0.8114     0.9743       0.8085        0.7902
2023/24     8%            $12.86 0.8768     1.0521       0.8728        0.8540
2024/25     8%            $13.89 0.9464     1.1365       0.9424        0.9217
2025/26     8%            $15.00 1.0227     1.2276       1.0173        0.9961
2026/27     1%            $15.15 1.0336     1.2397       1.0280        1.0067
2027/28     1%            $15.30 1.0445     1.2518       1.0387        1.0173
2028/29     1%            $15.45 1.0555     1.2638       1.0494        1.0280
2029/30     1%            $15.60 1.0664     1.2759       1.0602        1.0386
2030/31     1%            $15.76 1.0773     1.2893       1.0709        1.0492
2031/32     1%            $15.92 1.0882     1.3027       1.0816        1.0598
2032/33     1%            $16.08 1.0991     1.3161       1.0923        1.0705
2033/34     1%            $16.24 1.1100     1.3295       1.1030        1.0811
2034/35     1%            $16.40 1.1209     1.3429       1.1137        1.0917
2035/36     1%            $16.56 1.1318     1.3563       1.1244        1.1023
2036/37     1%            $16.73 1.1427     1.3697       1.1351        1.1130
2037/38     1%            $16.90 1.1536     1.3831       1.1458        1.1236
2038/39     1%            $17.07 1.1645     1.3965       1.1579        1.1342
2039/40     1%            $17.24 1.1768     1.4099       1.1699        1.1462
2040/41     1%            $17.41 1.1891     1.4246       1.1820        1.1581
2041/42     1%            $17.58 1.2014     1.4394       1.1940        1.1701
2042/43     1%            $17.76 1.2136     1.4541       1.2061        1.1820
2043/44     1%            $17.94 1.2259     1.4689       1.2181        1.1940
2044/45     1%            $18.12 1.2382     1.4836       1.2302        1.2059
2045/46     1%            $18.30 1.2505     1.4984       1.2422        1.2179
2046/47     1%            $18.48 1.2627     1.5131       1.2543        1.2298
 
Exhibit B-1
Commercial Rate Structure - CCF (100 Cubic Feet/748 Gallons)
Fiscal Year Rate     Base 1—19 Unit20-99 Units 100-499 Units 500 and
            Increase                                           Beyond Units
Exhibit B-1
Commercial Rate Structure - CCF (100 Cubic Feet/748 Gallons)
Fiscal Year Rate     Base   1—19 Unit20-99 Units 100-499 Units 500 and
            Increase                                             Beyond Units
2013/14     8%       $9.24  $3.18      $3.05       $2.97         $2.84
2014/15     8%       $9.98  $3.43      $3.29       $3.21         $3.07
2015/16     8%       $10.78 $3.71      $3.56       $3.46         $3.31
2016/17     8%       $11.64 $4.01      $3.84       $3.74         $3.58
2017/18     8%       $12.57 $4.33      $4.15       $4.04         $3.86
2018/19     8%       $13.58 $4.67      $4.48       $4.36         $4.17
2019/20     8%       $14.66 $5.05      $4.84       $4.71         $4.51
2020/21     8%       $15.84 $5.45      $5.23       $5.09         $4.87
2021/22     8%       $17.10 $5.89      $5.65       $5.50         $5.26
2022/23     8%       $18.47 $6.36      $6.10       $5.94         $5.68
2023/24     8%       $19.95 $6.87      $6.58       $6.41         $6.13
2024/25     8%       $21.54 $7.41      $7.11       $6.92         $6.62
2025/26     8%       $23.27 $8.01      $7.68       $7.48         $7.15
2026/27     1%       $23.50 $8.09      $7.76       $7.55         $7.22
2027/28     1%       $23.74 $8.17      $7.83       $7.63         $7.30
2028/29     1%       $23.97 $8.25      $7.91       $7.71         $7.37
2029/30     1%       $24.21 $8.33      $7.99       $7.78         $7.44
2030/31     1%       $24.45 $8.42      $8.07       $7.86         $7.52
2031/32     1%       $24.70 $8.50      $8.15       $7.94         $7.59
2032/33     1%       $24.95 $8.59      $8.23       $8.02         $7.67
2033/34     1%       $25.20 $8.67      $8.32       $8.10         $7.74
2034/35     1%       $25.45 $8.76      $8.40       $8.18         $7.82
2035/36     1%       $25.70 $8.85      $8.48       $8.26         $7.90
2036/37     1%       $25.96 $8.93      $8.57       $8.34         $7.98
2037/38     1%       $26.22 $9.02      $8.65       $8.43         $8.06
2038/39     1%       $26.48 $9.11      $8.74       $8.51         $8.14
2039/40     1%       $26.75 $9.20      $8.83       $8.60         $8.22
2040/41     1%       $27.01 $9.30      $8.92       $8.68         $8.30
2041/42     1%       $27.28 $9.39      $9.01       $8.77         $8.39
2042/43     1%       $27.56 $9.48      $9.10       $8.86         $8.47
2043/44     1%       $27.83 $9.58      $9.19       $8.95         $8.55
2044/45     1%       $28.11 $9.67      $9.28       $9.04         $8.64
2045/46     1%       $28.39 $9.77      $9.37       $9.13         $8.73
2046/47     1%       $28.68 $9.87      $9.47       $9.22         $8.81
 
Exhibit B-2
Commercial Rate Structure - DCF (100 Cubic Feet/74.8 Gallons)
Fiscal Year Rate Increase Base 1—190 Unit191-990 Units 991-4990 4991 and
                                                         Units    Beyond Units
Exhibit B-2
Commercial Rate Structure - DCF (100 Cubic Feet/74.8 Gallons)
Fiscal Year Rate     Base   1—190 Unit191-990 Units 991-4990 4991 and
            Increase                                  Units    Beyond Units
2013/14     8%       $9.24  $0.318      $0.305        $0.297   $0.284
2014/15     8%       $9.98  $0.343      $0.329        $0.321   $0.307
2015/16     8%       $10.78 $0.371      $0.356        $0.346   $0.331
2016/17     8%       $11.64 $0.401      $0.384        $0.374   $0.358
2017/18     8%       $12.57 $0.433      $0.415        $0.404   $0.386
2018/19     8%       $13.58 $0.467      $0.448        $0.436   $0.417
2019/20     8%       $14.66 $0.505      $0.484        $0.471   $0.451
2020/21     8%       $15.84 $0.545      $0.523        $0.509   $0.487
2021/22     8%       $17.10 $0.589      $0.565        $0.550   $0.526
2022/23     8%       $18.47 $0.636      $0.610        $0.594   $0.568
2023/24     8%       $19.95 $0.687      $0.658        $0.641   $0.613
2024/25     8%       $21.54 $0.741      $0.711        $0.692   $0.662
2025/26     8%       $23.27 $0.801      $0.768        $0.748   $0.715
2026/27     1%       $23.50 $0.809      $0.776        $0.755   $0.722
2027/28     1%       $23.74 $0.817      $0.783        $0.763   $0.730
2028/29     1%       $23.97 $0.825      $0.791        $0.771   $0.737
2029/30     1%       $24.21 $0.833      $0.799        $0.778   $0.744
2030/31     1%       $24.45 $0.842      $0.807        $0.786   $0.752
2031/32     1%       $24.70 $0.850      $0.815        $0.794   $0.759
2032/33     1%       $24.95 $0.859      $0.823        $0.802   $0.767
2033/34     1%       $25.20 $0.867      $0.832        $0.810   $0.774
2034/35     1%       $25.45 $0.876      $0.840        $0.818   $0.782
2035/36     1%       $25.70 $0.885      $0.848        $0.826   $0.790
2036/37     1%       $25.96 $0.893      $0.857        $0.834   $0.798
2037/38     1%       $26.22 $0.902      $0.865        $0.843   $0.806
2038/39     1%       $26.48 $0.911      $0.874        $0.851   $0.814
2039/40     1%       $26.75 $0.920      $0.883        $0.860   $0.822
2040/41     1%       $27.01 $0.930      $0.892        $0.868   $0.830
2041/42     1%       $27.28 $0.939      $0.901        $0.877   $0.839
2042/43     1%       $27.56 $0.948      $0.910        $0.886   $0.847
2043/44     1%       $27.83 $0.958      $0.919        $0.895   $0.855
2044/45     1%       $28.11 $0.967      $0.928        $0.904   $0.864
2045/46     1%       $28.39 $0.977      $0.937        $0.913   $0.873
2046/47     1%       $28.68 $0.987      $0.947        $0.922   $0.881
 
Exhibit B-3
Commercial Rate Structure - CGL (100 Gallons)
Fiscal Year Rate     Base 1—142 Unit143—740 Unit741—3,739 3,740 and
            Increase                                Units       Beyond Units
Exhibit B-3
Commercial Rate Structure - CGL (100 Gallons)
Fiscal Year Rate     Base   1—142 Unit143—740 Unit741—3,739 3,740 and
            Increase                                  Units       Beyond Units
2013/14     8%       -      -           -             -           -
2014/15     8%       -      -           -             -           -
2015/16     8%       -      -           -             -           -
2016/17     8%       $11.64 0.5365      0.5137        0.5000      0.4784
2017/18     8%       $12.57 0.5794      0.5552        0.5401      0.5159
2018/19     8%       $13.58 0.6249      0.5993        0.5829      0.5573
2019/20     8%       $14.66 0.6757      0.6475        0.6297      0.6027
2020/21     8%       $15.84 0.7292      0.6997        0.6805      0.6508
2021/22     8%       $17.10 0.7881      0.7559        0.7353      0.7030
2022/23     8%       $18.47 0.8510      0.8161        0.7941      0.7591
2023/24     8%       $19.95 0.9192      0.8803        0.8570      0.8192
2024/25     8%       $21.54 0.9915      0.9512        0.9251      0.8847
2025/26     8%       $23.27 1.0718      1.0274        1.0000      0.9556
2026/27     1%       $23.50 1.0825      1.0381        1.0094      0.9649
2027/28     1%       $23.74 1.0932      1.0475        1.0201      0.9756
2028/29     1%       $23.97 1.1039      1.0582        1.0307      0.9850
2029/30     1%       $24.21 1.1146      1.0689        1.0401      0.9943
2030/31     1%       $24.45 1.1266      1.0796        1.0508      1.0050
2031/32     1%       $24.70 1.1373      1.0903        1.0615      1.0144
2032/33     1%       $24.95 1.1494      1.1010        1.0722      1.0250
2033/34     1%       $25.20 1.1601      1.1130        1.0829      1.0344
2034/35     1%       $25.45 1.1721      1.1237        1.0936      1.0451
2035/36     1%       $25.70 1.1842      1.1344        1.1043      1.0558
2036/37     1%       $25.96 1.1949      1.1465        1.1150      1.0665
2037/38     1%       $26.22 1.2069      1.1572        1.1270      1.0772
2038/39     1%       $26.48 1.2189      1.1692        1.1377      1.0879
2039/40     1%       $26.75 1.2310      1.1813        1.1497      1.0986
2040/41     1%       $27.01 1.2444      1.1933        1.1604      1.1092
2041/42     1%       $27.28 1.2564      1.2054        1.1725      1.1213
2042/43     1%       $27.56 1.2685      1.2174        1.1845      1.1320
2043/44     1%       $27.83 1.2818      1.2294        1.1965      1.1427
2044/45     1%       $28.11 1.2939      1.2415        1.2086      1.1547
2045/46     1%       $28.39 1.3073      1.2535        1.2206      1.1667
2046/47     1%       $28.68 1.3206      1.2669        1.2326      1.1774
 
(1960 Code, § 38-3-1)
(Ord. 5493, passed 6-3-1993; Ord. 5461, passed 9-5-1995; Ord. 6290, passed 4-
16-2001; Ord. 7732, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 7970-2016, passed 7-18-2016; Ord.
8025-2017, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 50.016 SEPARATE WATER SUPPLY.
   If any lot, parcel of land or premises which discharges sewage or industrial
waste into the sanitary sewage system, either directly or indirectly, obtains
part of all of the water used thereon from sources other than the Illinois
American Water Company, and the water so obtained is not measured by a water
meter or is measured by a water meter which is not acceptable to the Director,
then in such case the city shall permit the discharge of sewage or industrial
waste into its sanitary sewage system only when the owner of such lot, parcel
of land or premises or some other interested party shall, at his or her
expense, install and maintain a water meter which shall be satisfactory to the
Director of Wastewater Treatment and Sewer Lines. Such water meters shall be
installed so as to measure all water received on such lot, parcel of land or
premises and the charges and rates shall be based upon the aggregate quantity
of water received as measured by all such meters.
(1960 Code, § 38-3-2)
§ 50.017 METER DEDUCTION.
   Users who, at their own expense, install a meter which measures water not
entering the sanitary sewer system shall be eligible for deduction of that
water use throughout the year.
   (A)   Any such meter shall be of approved design, shall be registered with
the City Treasurer prior to use, and shall be used only by the user to whom it
is registered and at the service location to which it is assigned.
   (B)   Thereafter, the user shall bring said meter to the City Treasurer's
office in October of each year where it may be read and those readings utilized
to determine any meter usage since the previous reading.
   (C)   The City Treasurer shall then credit the user's sewer account by
subtracting the previous reading from the current reading as taken from the
meter and multiplying the difference by the sewer charge and then deducting
100% of that product from the next billing cycle.
   (D)   The City Treasurer shall have authority over the installation of the
meters used for deduction and from time to time may test the accuracy of said
meters. Any necessary repairs to such meters shall be at users expense.
   (E)   No deductions shall be granted for users of the sewer system who are
delinquent in their payments to the city for such service.
   (F)   (1)   The Treasurer and/or his or her designee may make adjustments
downward in readings of water usage for sewer billing when there is evidence of
a water leak; extensive watering of grass, flowers, shrubs and/or trees; and
filling and maintaining a swimming pool. The city's "history" of water usage
may be used to substantiate adjustments. EXTENSIVE is defined as three or more
units of CCF usage, 30 units of DCF usage or 22 units of CGL usage beyond what
the "history" shows to be the norm. A CCF unit is 748 gallons, a DCF unit is
74.8 gallons and a CGL unit is 100 gallons. Further, three units of CCF usage,
30 units of DCF usage or 22 units of CGL usage beyond a customer's typical
usage during only one billing cycle will qualify for an adjustment. When there
is sufficient history, adjustments shall be made by averaging the water usage
for a minimum of three months before the abnormal usage, and then using that
average for figuring the monthly bill(s). When there is insufficient  history,
the norm for billing may be established by using either the water consumption
of the months immediately following the period for a requested adjustment or
the Environmental Protection Agency's rule of thumb that each individual in a
household will use 2,992 gallons of water a month, i.e., four units CCF, 40
units of DCF or 30 units CGL.
      (2)   Adjustments due to water leaks will be made when proof that a leak
has been repaired is received.
      (3)   The period of time for "extensive" watering of grass, flowers,
shrubs and trees and the filling and maintaining of swimming pools is defined
as from May through September, and although requests for adjustments may be
made at any time, only one adjustment per year will be made, usually in
October.
      (4)   Individuals who currently have deduction meters are encouraged to
continue to use them. This especially applies to those who have sprinkler
systems.
      (5)   Decisions made by Sewer Collection Department personnel may be
appealed to the City Treasurer. The City Treasurer's decisions are not subject
to appeal.
(1960 Code, § 38-3-3) (Ord. 4945, passed 4-6-1992; Ord. 4996, passed 9-21-1992;
Ord. 7633, passed 10-15-2012; Ord. 7970-2016, passed 7-18-2016; Ord. 8025-2017,
passed 3-20-2017)
§ 50.018 NEW USERS.
   No person shall connect to any part of the city sanitary sewer system or
discharge sewage or industrial waste into the city’s sanitary sewer system
without first acquiring permission from the city to do so. It shall be in the
sole discretion of the city as to whether it grants said permission to connect
to the city’s sanitary system or to discharge sewage or industrial waste into
the city’s sanitary sewer system. For any lot, parcel of land or premises from
which connection is made with the city sanitary sewage system or which begins
to discharge sewage or industrial waste into the city sewage system, either
directly or indirectly, the charges and rates for the first payment period
after the beginning date of sewage discharged into the city sewage system shall
be based upon per diem pro rata amount of the established basic charge herein
established or shall be based upon the water consumed at the established rates,
whichever is the larger.
(1960 Code, § 38-3-4) (Ord. 6299, passed 5-21-2001) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.019 SURCHARGE TO INDUSTRIAL USERS.
   (A)   A surcharge will be levied upon all users whose wastes exceed a
concentration of 200 milligrams per liter of BOD or 250 milligrams per liter of
SS. The surcharge shall be expressed as dollars per pound of each constituent
(BOD or SS).
   (B)   Quarterly the number of pounds of each constituent from each user
subject to a surcharge shall be computed as follows:
      B.O.D. (pounds) = (Average analysis per quarter in mg/l - 200) x total
flow (MG) x 8.34
      S.S. (pounds) = (Average analysis per quarter in mg/l - 250) x total flow
(MG) x 8.34
      Total flow for the quarter shall be either water meter or flow meter
readings and shall be expressed in million gallons (MG).
   (C)   The surcharge shall be the pounds of each constituent per billing
period times the unit cost for each constituent.
   (D)   The unit cost for BOD shall be $0.178 per pound and the unit cost for
S.S. shall be $0.164 per pound.
(1960 Code, § 38-3-5) (Ord. 4949, passed 5-4-1992)
§ 50.020 ANNUAL REVIEW.
   The Director shall revise the surcharge costs annually during the month of
April based on the preceding calendar year costs, flow and testing of the plant
influents.
(1960 Code, § 38-3-6) (Ord. 4949, passed 5-4-1992)
§ 50.021 LIEN RIGHTS, COLLECTION AND OCCUPANCY PERMIT.
   (A)   Bills for the charges and rates herein established shall be prepared
by the Office of the City Treasurer and shall be due and payable on or before
the twenty-first day from the date of the bill. If the charges for use of the
sewer and/or refused systems are not paid within 21 days after the rendered
dated of the bill, a delayed payment charge in the amount of 10% of the bill
shall be imposed and collected. When a bill is not paid by a tenant within 30
days after the date of the bill, the property owner shall be responsible for
paying said bill including delayed payment charges.
   (B)   When there is any indebtedness to the city, including any unpaid bills
for sewer and/or refuse services to closed or inactive accounts, the city may,
in its sole discretion, deny occupancy permits for addresses until all
outstanding charges have been paid. Further, the city may revoke occupancy
permits for addresses when sewer/trash bills have gone unpaid for 60 or more
days, and where occupancy permits inadvertently have been issued.
   (C)   If a sewer bill is delinquent for more than 60 days, the City
Treasurer or the Treasurer’s designees may implement the terms of a
discontinuance agreement between the city and the Illinois American Water
Company which allows the city to request that Illinois American Water
discontinue water service to the premises where the sewer bill is delinquent in
excess of 60 days. Prior to implementing the terms of the discontinuance
agreement, the Office of the Treasurer shall give notice to the person whose
sewer bill is delinquent and give him or her an opportunity to be heard to
determine whether the amount claimed to be owed by the city is correct.
   (D)   The City Treasurer and/or the Treasurer’s designee(s) may enter into
payment agreements with customers to forestall a discontinuance of service
action. In the event that the delinquent customer fails to make the payments
pursuant to the terms of the payment agreement, the City Treasurer and/or the
Treasurer’s designee(s) may implement the terms of discontinuance agreement
between the city and Illinois American Water Company and request that the water
company terminate water service to said premises. Prior to implementing the
terms of the discontinuance agreement, the city shall give notice to the person
whose sewer bill is delinquent and give him or her an opportunity to be heard
to determine whether the amount claimed to be owed by the city is correct.
   (E)   If the water service is disconnected to a premises because of a
delinquent bill, the customer shall be liable to pay all extra charges incurred
by the city in connection with the disconnection of the water service,
including, but not limited to, all payments due to the city or to Illinois
American Water Company pursuant to discontinuance agreement.
   (F)   Whenever a bill for sewer service/refuse collection remains unpaid for
30 days after it has been rendered, the Treasurer or the Treasurer’s designee
(s) may file with the Recorder of Deed of the county a statement of lien claim.
This statement shall contain a legal description of the premises served, the
amount of the unpaid bill and the notice that the city claims a lien for this
amount as well as for all charges for sewer service/refuse collection
subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
   (G)   (1)   If a bill for sewer service/refuse collection remains unpaid for
a period of 30 days, the customer shall be liable for reasonable attorney’s
fees and costs of litigation in connection with collection of said delinquent
sum. (See §
50.015(C) and (D) of this chapter.)
      (2)   The failure of the Treasurer and/or the Treasurer’s designee(s) to
record such lien claim or to mail such notice, or the failure of the owner to
receive such notice, shall not affect the right to foreclosure of the lien
pursuant to statutes of the state for unpaid sewer bills or to otherwise pursue
other collection procedures available.
   (H)   (1)   The time of making sewer bills and the period to be covered
thereby shall be in accordance with the meter reading practices of the Illinois
American Water Company for all lots, parcels of land and premises with respect
to which such meter readings are used as a basis for the charges or rates. In
all other cases, bills shall be made out monthly.
      (2)   All rates and charges shall be payable at the office of the City
Treasurer and shall be collected for the city by the City Treasurer.
   (I)   (1)   The International Property Maintenance Code, which the city has
adopted, requires that all dwellings be provided with a supply of water to
plumbing fixtures, devices and appurtenances in sufficient volume and pressure
to enable the fixtures to function properly and safely.
      (2)   Consequently, in the case of a discontinuance of service, the
dwelling is subject to condemnation and its occupants evicted if water service
is not restored within 72 hours of the beginning of the discontinuance.
(1960 Code, § 38-3-7) (Ord. 7563, passed 1-17-2012; Ord. 9264-2024, passed 4-1-
2024) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.022 SERVICE DISCONNECTED.
   (A)   If the charges for sewage service are not paid within 30 days after
the rendition of the bill for such service and the property is unoccupied, the
service may be discontinued without further notice by removing the sewer
lateral tap-in at the municipal sewer main, and shall not be reinstated until
all past due bills, filing fees, court costs and attorney’s fees associated
with the previous disconnection from said sewer system, are paid in full.
   (B)   If the charges for sewerage service are not paid within 30 days after
the rendition of the bill for such service and the property is occupied, the
service may be disconnected upon the following terms.
      (1)   The city shall direct notice to the last known address of the
owner, via first class United States mail service, of its intent to discontinue
service to the address of the affected property not less than 30 days prior to
any disconnection. In addition, the city shall cause a copy of said notice to
be posted on the affected property. Said notice shall be given not less than 60
days prior to disconnection.
      (2)   If the charges are not paid in full prior to the disconnection date
specified in the notice, then the property may be disconnected without further
notice.
      (3)   Any person affected by a notice of disconnection may obtain a
hearing before the city by requesting in writing a review of the decision by
the city to disconnect. Said request shall be made within 14 days of the date
said notice was posted on the affected property.
      (4)   The party requesting a hearing before the Board shall have the
right to be represented by counsel of its choice and shall be permitted to call
witnesses on behalf of the party.
      (5)   The city shall render its decision at the conclusion of the
hearing.
   (C)   Any property disconnected from the municipal sewer system shall be
required to provide a private sewage system (aerator) to service said property,
pursuant to 225 ILCS 225/6 and St. Clair County Health Department, or the
property shall be considered illegal to be occupied.
   (D)   Municipal sewerage service to any property previously disconnected
from the city sewer system shall not be reinstated until all past due bills,
filing fees, court costs and attorney’s fees associated with said
disconnection, as well as any tap-in fees, charges associated with re-
connection to the city sewer system and reimbursement for costs associated with
the previous disconnection from said sewer system, are paid in full.
(1960 Code, § 38-3-8) (Ord. 5615, passed 9-3-1996)
§ 50.023 SEWER LATERAL REPAIR PROGRAM INSTALLATION AND CONNECTION.
   (A)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of a sanitary sewer to the building shall be borne by the owner. The owner
shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the sewer. The owner is
responsible for all maintenance and repair of the sewer lateral from the
building to the city sewer main. This section shall apply even where said sewer
runs under a public street or a public right-of-way or uses a public easement.
   (B)   (1)   The Sewer Lateral Repair Program covers the cost of repairing
that portion of a defective sewer lateral that begins immediately beyond the
property line of a premises and extends to the sewer main. For residential
accounts, the program will cover 100% of the costs of repairs to a maximum of
$15,000. For commercial accounts, the program will cover one-half of the cost
of repairs on a 50% to 50% basis to a maximum of $15,000. However, a deductible
of $100 shall apply to the cost of any repair undertaken in conjunction with
this program. When repairs are necessary, the Director of Wastewater Treatment
or a designee will solicit bids from qualified contractors when the estimated
cost for the repair is $10,000 or more. If the estimated cost is less than
$10,000, quotes will be secured.
      (2)   The Sewer Lateral Repair Program shall apply to all property that
is billed for sewer service. To establish a fund from which to pay the cost of
replacing qualified defective sewer laterals, a sewer-usage fee of $0.06 per
day effective January 1, 2023, $0.08 per day effective January 1, 2024, and
$0.10 per day effective January 1, 2025.
      (3)   The owner of a premises remains responsible for sewer laterals that
run from the premises foundation to the property line.
      (4)   When a property owner experiences a problem with their lateral
sewer service line, the owner must first have a licenses and bonded company to
determine where the problem is. (Sometimes the problem is not with the line
itself, but it may have become clogged by materials in the line.) As a common
home maintenance expense, the cost of this determination is not reimbursable by
the city. If the problem is proven to be beyond the property line, the owner
should contact the city. The city reserves the right to determine if an
emergency situation exists.
      (5)   If necessary, the city will arrange for the Wastewater Treatment
Department to perform a dye test. In most instances this will disclose if, and
where, there is a break in the sanitary sewer lateral.
      (6)   The property owner, not the tenant, must make the request to
participate in the program.
   (C)   (1)   In order to finance the sewer lateral repair a fee shall be
charged to each sewer account in the amount of $0.06 per day effective January
1, 2023, $0.08 per day effective January 1, 2024, and $0.10 per day effective
January 1, 2025.
      (2)   Beginning January 1, 2009, the implementation of repairs via this
program will begin.
(1960 Code, § 38-3-9) (Ord. 9105-2022, passed 12-19-2022)
SEWER EXTENSIONS
§ 50.035 CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTS.
   The city will not accept sewer lines and treatment facilities installed by
persons, firms, organizations, corporations or others unless the following
requirements have been met.
(1960 Code, § 38-4-1)
§ 50.036 APPROVED PLANS AND PERMITS.
   Line installation shall not commence until a water pollution control permit
and a complete set of plans that have been approved by the Environmental
Protection Agency of the state and the city are on file in the office of the
Director.
(1960 Code, § 38-4-2)
§ 50.037 CERTIFICATION.
   A notarized certification by the installing contractor that he or she has
installed all sewers and treatment facilities in accordance with the permits
and plans noted in §
50.036 of this chapter is on file in the office of the Director.
(1960 Code, § 38-4-3)
§ 50.038 TESTING.
   An air leakage test and deflection test shall be performed in accordance
with Standard Specification for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois
(latest edition). All tests shall be conducted in the presence of a
representative of the city. Twenty-four hour’s notice shall be given prior to
commending any tests.
(1960 Code, § 38-4-4)
§ 50.039 “RECORD” DRAWINGS.
   (A)   Upon completion of the project as shown on the approved plans, one
complete set of “record” drawings shall be furnished to the Director’s office
for the construction plans. The “record” drawings shall be furnished to the
Director on sepia type reproducible material. The “record” drawings shall show,
both in plan and elevation (U.S.G.S., datum), the exact location, dimensions,
size and type of pipe supplied and all facilities constructed.
   (B)   All service wyes and manhole stub outs must be shown on the “record”.
Each service line shall be referenced with the sewer main stationing and
dimensioned to the nearest down stream manhole. The depth of the end of each
service line shall be clearly marked on the “record”.
(1960 Code, § 38-4-5)
§ 50.040 FINAL INSPECTION.
   Upon completion of the project after all required testing has been done, a
final inspection will be made by city personnel. The final inspection will not
be conducted until “record” plans are submitted. Final inspection will be made
at the requests of the owner. A list of material and workmanship defects, if
any, will be forwarded to the owner. Defects noted must be corrected and a
reinspection made before acceptance. Improvements found not as depicted on the
submitted “record” plans shall be rejected.
(1960 Code, § 38-4-6)
§ 50.041 SEWER MAINTENANCE BOND.
   After all defects, if any were noted during final inspection, have been
corrected and prior to any sewer permits being issued, a maintenance bond in an
amount equal to 50% of the construction cost shall be filed with the City
Clerk. The bond shall be for a period of three years, commencing on the date of
final inspection or reinspection if necessary, and shall cover all defects in
materials and workmanship. The bond shall be binding on the developer or the
contractor.
(1960 Code, § 38-4-7) (Ord. 4577, passed 11-7-1988) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.042 PUMP STATION DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   General. The city will not accept any newly constructed pumping
stations not designed according to the sewage pump station design standards and
specifications on file at the Wastewater Division Office. Pump station design
and specifications will be strictly enforced.
   (B)   Minimum requirements for new pumping stations.
      (1)   The float switch shall be a simple, dependable, level-sensing
automatic pump or alarm control device that operates reliably in sewage wet
wells, water reservoirs, ditches or process vats. The float body shall be of
high density polyethylene and the cable jacket shall be made of synthetic
rubber for outstanding performance in a wide-range of corrosive environments.
Each float should sense the movement of the liquid level past its mounting
elevation. It should turn on and off at essentially the same point on a rising
or falling level. Single floats shall be used for differential control of
pumps. Floats should contain one or two mercury switches each of which can be
normally-opened or normally closed. A weight kit should be available for
individual float suspension.
      (2)   The float hangers and pump lifting bales shall be made of 316
stainless steel.
      (3)   The electric cabinets shall be constructed of 316 stainless steel.
      (4)   Conduit for float cables shall be of one and one-half inch PVC.
Each pump cable shall have its own conduit of adequate size and shall be of
PVC.
      (5)   The valve vault shall have a two-inch PVC drain to the wet well
with a PVC check valve and a trap to prevent liquid and odors from backing into
the valve vault.
      (6)   Check valves shall be the rubber flapper swing check valve. It
should be simple in design, have no moving parts and the flapper shall not
pivot from the hinge pin, it should flex to open. Check valves should be non-
slamming in design because the flapper should only travel 35 degrees to reach
the 45-degree seat and the flapper should be spring loaded with resiliency, so
it closes before column reversal or near zero velocity, hence, the severity of
slamming is negligible. Without moving parts to wear out, the rubber flapper
check should be virtually maintenance free.
      (7)   Pump guide rails shall be 316 stainless steel.
      (8)   There shall be an auxiliary pump connection to the force main.
      (9)   An eight-foot high chain link fence shall surround the station wet
well, valve box, and electrical control boxes. A minimum 25-foot by 25-foot
area with a double swing 13-foot gate. The fence shall be of two-ounce aluminum
coated six-gauge fabric.
      (10)   An auxiliary transfer switch and cable connection shall be
provided that is adaptable to the city portable generator.
      (11)   Pumps (minimum duplex station). The pump(s) shall be capable of
handling raw, unscreened wastewater. The discharge connection elbow shall be
permanently installed in the wet well along with the discharge piping. The pump
(s) shall be automatically connected to the discharge connection elbow when
lowered into place, and shall be easily removed for inspection or service.
There shall be no need for personnel to enter pump well. Sealing of the pumping
unit to the discharge connection elbow shall be accomplished by a simple linear
downward motion of the pump. A sliding guide bracket shall be an integral part
of the pump unit. The entire weight of the pumping unit shall be guided by no
less than two guide bars and pressed tightly against the discharge connection
elbow with metal-to-metal contact. No portion of the pump shall bear directly
on the floor of the sump. The pump, with its appurtenances and cable, shall be
capable of continuous submergence underwater without loss of watertight
integrity to a depth of 65 feet and shall meet requirements of the National
Electrical Code for such units. An effective method to detect shaft seal
failure or potential seal failure shall be provided. Pump suction and discharge
openings shall be two inches minimum and the pump shall be capable of passing a
three-inch sphere. The electrical system and components, including motors,
lights, cables, conduits, switchboxes and the like shall comply with NEC
requirements for Class 1, Group D, Division 1 locations.
      (12)   Aluminum access frame(s) and door(s), minimum rated 150 lbs./sq.
ft., complete with hinged and flush locking mechanism and level sensor(s) cable
holder. Frame shall be securely placed, mounted above the pump(s) or valves.
Each door shall have a safety handle to maintain the door in the open position.
Doors shall be of skid proof design. A sliding nut-tray shall be incorporated
into the design of the access frame. The sliding nut-tray shall be located on
three sides of the frame to facilitate the mounting and moving of the upper
guide bar, brackets and cable holder. Furnish and install upper guide bar
brackets, guide bar, galvanized chain and cable holder.
      (13)   An access road shall be provided with sufficient width for the
city’s lift station maintenance truck.
      (14)   Force main shall be four inches in diameter or larger.
      (15)   Wet well shall have storage capacity for one-day flow.
(1960 Code, § 38-4-8) (Ord. 5334, passed 10-17-1994)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 50.055 PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   Pretreatment for removal of compatible pollutants may be required
under §
50.056 of this chapter.
   (B)   The pretreatment standard for incompatible pollutants introduced into
a treatment works by a major contributing industry shall be that established by
a promulgated effluent limitations guideline defining best practicable control
technology currently available pursuant to §§ 301(B) and 304(B) of the Act,
being 33 U.S.C. § 1311(b) and 33 U.S.C. 1314(b). Compliance with pretreatment
standards shall be provided for by the Act and subsequent rules and regulations
as promulgated by the Regional Administrator.
(1960 Code, § 38-6-1)
§ 50.056 USE OF PUBLIC SEWER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to an outlet
approved by the Director. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters
may be discharged, upon approval of the Director, to a storm sewer or natural
outlet.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged any of the following described water or wastes to any public
sewer:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
      (2)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 50 mg per liter by
weight of fat, oil or grease;
      (3)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel, oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (5)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.5,
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
      (7)   (a)   Any waste at any time containing more than the maximum
concentration in milligrams per liter of any substance shown in the following
table:
Arsenic (total)         0.25
Barium (total)          2.00
Cadmium (total)         0.15
Chromium (total triv.)  1.00
Chromium (total hexav.) 0.30
Copper (total)          1.00
Cyanide                 5.75
Flouride (total)        2.50
Iron (total)            2.00
Iron (dissolved)        0.50
Lead (total)            0.10
Manganese (total)       1.00
Mercury (total)         .0005
Nickel (total)          1.00
Phenols                 0.30
Selenium (total)        1.00
Silver (total)          0.10
Zinc (total)            1.00
Total dissolved solids  3500.00
 
         (b)   The above maxima may be changed, without notice, to comply with
the rules, regulations or standards of the EPA of the state as they may appear.
      (8)   Any waste containing other toxic or poisonous substances in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals or create any hazard in the receiving
waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (9)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character
and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such
materials at the sewage treatment plant; and
      (10)   Any noxious or malodorous liquid, gas or substance which, whether
singly or by interaction with other wastes, creates a public nuisance or hazard
to life or is sufficient to prevent entry into sewers for their maintenance and
repair.
   (D)   (1)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Director, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or
other harmful ingredients; except that, such interceptors shall not be required
for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a
type and capacity approved by the Director, and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
      (2)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
They shall be of substantial construction, water-tight and equipped with easily
removable covers which when bolted in place shall be gas-tight and water-tight.
   (E)   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
   (F)   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes having a
five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 200 parts per million by weight
or containing more than 250 parts per million by weight of the suspended
solids, or containing any quantity of substances having the characteristics
described in division (C) above, or having an average daily flow greater than
25,000 gallons per day, shall be subject to the review and approval of the
Director. Where necessary in the opinion of the Director, the owner shall
provide, at his or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary
to reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to 200 parts per million and the
suspended solids to 250 parts per million by weight, or reduce objectionable
characteristics or constituents to less than the maximum limits provided for in
division (C) above, or control the quantities and rates of discharge of such
waters or wastes. Plans, specifications and any other pertinent facilities
shall be submitted for the approval of the Director and no construction of such
facilities shall be commenced until said approval is obtained in writing.
   (G)   Where pretreatment facilities are provided for any waters or wastes,
they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation
by the owner at his or her expense.
   (H)   When required by the Director, the owner of any property served by a
building sanitary sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable
control manhole in the building sanitary sewer to facilitate observation,
sampling and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be
accessible and safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with
plans approved by the Director. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at
his expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and
accessible to the city at all times.
   (I)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in divisions (C) and (F) above shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Waste Water, published by the American Public Health
Association, and in accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 136, Guidelines Establishing
Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants, or any future amendments to either
of these publications, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided
for in division (H) above, or upon suitable samples taken at said control
manhole. In the event that no special manhole is available, the control manhole
shall be considered to be the downstream manhole in the public sewer nearest to
the point at which the building sanitary sewer is connected.
   (J)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the
industrial concern of rates representing a proportional share of the industrial
concern's operation, maintenance and replacement cost of the treatment works.
   (K)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (L)   It shall be unlawful to discharge into any natural outlet within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city any sanitary sewage,
industrial wastes or any other polluted water, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with the provisions of this code.
   (M)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
sewage, except as provided in the Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act, 225
ILCS 225, unless approved by the city and St. Clair County Health Department,
County Ord. 13 1088, Article II - private sewage disposal code.
   (N)   It shall be unlawful to connect any sewer, which receives roof
drainage, foundation drainage, surface water or ground water, to a public
sanitary sewer.
   (O)   It shall be unlawful to construct combined sewers or other facilities
intended to receive both storm run-off and sewage. Separate sanitary sewers and
separate storm sewers shall be provided.
   (P)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purpose, situated in the city and
abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way, in which there is not located,
or may in the future be located, a public sanitary sewer of the city, is hereby
required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein
and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 180 days after date of
official notice to do so; provided that, said public sewer is within 200 feet
of the property line and any downstream portion of the wastewater facilities
has sufficient capacity to handle the additional sewage.
   (Q)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenances, or equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage system.
   (R)   That new construction tributary to the combined sewer system be
designated to minimize and/or delay inflow contributions to the combined sewer
system.
   (S)   That inflow sources on the combined sewer system be connected to a
storm sewer within a reasonable period of time, if a storm sewer becomes
available.
   (T)   That any new building domestic waste connection be distinct from the
building inflow connection, to facilitate disconnection if a storm sewer
becomes available.
   (U)   CSO impacts from non-domestic sources are minimized by determining
which non-domestic discharges, if any, are tributary to CSOs.
   (V)   If the drainage from any gasoline filling station, garage, refining
plant, chemical plant, packing house, slaughter house, lard rendering
establishment, dairy, steam engine, steam boiler, steam plant or any other
establishment shall cause a deposit or obstruction or damage to any public
sewer, the Director shall cause such deposit or obstruction to be removed
promptly or cause such damage to be repaired, keeping an account of the cost of
such work including materials, labor and supervision and shall certify an
account of such cost to the person from whose establishment or premises the
material causing such deposit, obstruction or damage came and if such person
shall fail, neglect or refuse to pay the sum specified to the city within 30
days after demand has been made, the person shall be in violation of this
subchapter.
(1960 Code, § 38-6-2) (Ord. 5976, passed 4-19-1999; Ord. 6776, passed 10-3-
2005; Ord. 8396-2019, passed 11-19-2019) Penalty, see §
50.999
BUILDING SEWERS, PERMITS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 50.070 COSTS.
   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation, connection or
maintenance to the building of sanitary sewers shall be borne by the owner. The
owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly by occasioned by the installation of the building of the sewer. This
section shall apply even where said sewers run under a public street or a
public right-of-way, or use a public easement.
(1960 Code, § 38-7-1) (Ord. 4475, passed 12-21-1987)
§ 50.071 PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to make any connection with any city sewer
without first having obtained a permit therefor.
   (B)   Applications for connection permits shall be made to the Director of
Sewers and shall be accompanied by a statement setting forth the purpose of
connecting to a city sewer, the premises to be served, the specifications of
the sewer pipe to be connected and the drain from the house to the sewer pipe.
   (C)   Applications for connection permits shall also be referred to the City
Plumbing Inspector.
   (D)   No permit for connection to any city sewer shall be issued unless it
is determined that all applicable ordinances of the city are complied with,
including all applicable state and federal requirements.
   (E)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Director.
(1960 Code, § 38-7-2) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.072 CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   A separate independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building.
   (B)   Old building sanitary sewers and/or storm sewers may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they are found on examination and test
by the Director, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   New building sanitary and/or storm sewers shall be installed in
accordance with Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   The fee for each permit allowing connection with the city sewers shall
be determined as follows.
      (1)   The fees for each dwelling unit shall be $2,850 per dwelling unit,
plus a $100 inspection fee per service connection to the city sewers.
      (2)   The permit fees for each commercial/industrial connection including
hotels/motels shall be as follows:
         (a)   Commercial connection for parcel less than one-half acre:
$3,600; and
         (b)   Connection for parcels more than one-half acre: $3,600 for every
additional acre or portion thereof. In addition, an assessment of $1,200 per
facility unit*, plus $120 inspection fee for service connection to city sewers.
(* FACILITY UNIT is any part of a building having fixtures discharging
wastewater effluent from a restroom, laundry, break room, kitchen, salon,
housekeeping facility and the like are facility units. Any part or parts of a
room in a building that discharges wastewater to the sewer system are facility
units. Facility unit fees may also be assessed for part of a building that is
divided for present or future use. Facility units also are any construction
work, which adds or moves existing sink, bathroom or any additional use that
discharges wastewater to the sewer system. Facility unit fees also apply to
alterations to buildings or structures that add room(s) or part thereof, which
includes facilities to discharge wastewater to the sewer system. Assessment
fees shall also apply to new construction on a site, which previously contained
a building or structure connected to the sewer system. Drinking fountains are
exempt.)
      (3)   (a)   The permit fee for churches, public buildings and schools
shall be based on water meter size as follows:
 
3/4 in.           $500
1 in.             $1,000
1-1/2 in.         $1,500
2 in.             $2,000
Larger than 2 in. Fee must be negotiated with the city
 
         (b)   Plus, a $100 inspection fee per service connection to city
sewers.
   (E)   There shall be an additional $100 charge for every reinspection after
the original inspection has been performed under this chapter.
   (F)   The connection fees and inspection fees for all residential and
commercial customers not located within the city limits will be three times or
triple the amount charged for customers located within the city limits.
(1960 Code, § 38-7-3) (Ord. 6866, passed 4-17-2006; Ord. 6989, passed 5-21-
2007)
INSPECTIONS
§ 50.085 INSPECTIONS.
   Upon payment of the permit fee, the inspector shall make the following
inspections of each residence to be connected to the sewage system.
   (A)   An inspection shall be made of the building plumbing connection at the
time the sewer ditch is opened and the connection is made to the sewer system
to determine proper grade, alignment and connection.
   (B)   An inspection shall be made before the fill is put around the
foundation and while the tile is still exposed around the foundation to see
that there has been no connection of such drain tile with the sanitary sewer
system.
   (C)   A third and final inspection shall be made after the eaves-troughs and
downspouts have been installed to see that there is no connection of the
aforesaid with the sanitary sewer.
   (D)   The provisions of this chapter relating to excavations in streets
shall be complied with in making excavations in street or other public places
for sewer connections.
(1960 Code, § 38-9-1) (Ord. 4042, passed 2-20-1984)
§ 50.086 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   The Director and other duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper
credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon all properties
for the purpose of inspections, observation, measurement, sampling and testing,
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 38-9-2)
COLLECTION, DEPOSIT AND LIEN
§ 50.100 SUPERVISOR OF SEWER COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The Office of Supervisor of Sewer Collections is hereby created.
      (2)   He or she shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the advice
and consent of the City Council, at the first meeting of the City Council in
May of each year. The Supervisor of Sewer Collections shall be under the
supervision of the City Treasurer and shall perform such duties as the City
Treasurer shall direct.
      (3)   In addition, he or she shall perform all the duties imposed upon
the Commissioner of Buildings under the Building regulations of the city.
   (B)   The City Treasurer, with the consent of the City Council, may
authorize one or more financial institutions located within the corporate
limits of the city to collect sewer service charges.
(1960 Code, § 38-10-3) (Ord. 3525, passed 9-5-1978)
§ 50.101 LIEN RIGHTS.
   (A)   Whenever a bill for sewer service remains unpaid for 30 days after it
has been rendered, the City Treasurer shall file with the Recorder of Deeds of
the appropriate county a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain
a legal description of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill and a
notice that the city claims a lien for this amount as well as for all charges
for sewer service subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
   (B)   If a consumer whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises,
the City Treasurer shall notify the owner of the premises, if his or her
address be known to the City Treasurer whenever such bill remains unpaid for a
period of 30 days after it has been rendered.
   (C)   The failure of the City Treasurer to record such lien claim or to mail
such notice, or the failure of the owner to receive such notice, shall not
affect the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid sewer bills mentioned in
division (B) above.
   (D)   (1)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid sewer service charges
shall be sold for non-payment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall
be applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the
foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be by bill in equity in
the name of the city.
      (2)   The City Attorney is hereby authorized and elected to institute
such proceedings in the name of the city in any court having jurisdiction over
such matters against any property for which the bill for sewer service has
remained unpaid 30 days after it has been rendered.
(1960 Code, § 38-10-4)
CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
§ 50.115 MATERIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The sewer from building to main sewer must be constructed of vitrified
clay pipe conforming to ASTM-C-700 (latest revision), cast iron soil pipe
conforming to ASTM-A-74 (latest revision), or ASTM-C-564 (latest revision) or
Type PSM Polyvinyl Chloride (P.V.C.) Sewer pipe conforming to ASTM-3034 (latest
revision) with a minimum dimension ratio (DR) of 35, or ASTM-F789-82, with
elastomeric gasketed joints.
   (B)   When the building sewer is to be constructed with type PSM Polyvinyl
Chloride (P.V.C.) Sewer pipe, then said building sewer shall be laid with a
minimum two-inch thick bedding of an approved three-eighths inch minimum
granular material and covered to the center line with the same material.
(1960 Code, § 38-13-1)
§ 50.116 CONNECTIONS TO THE CITY SEWER.
   (A)   The sewer connection into the city sewer shall be made at the “wye” or
“tee” branch designated for that property, if available. Where “wye” or “tee”
branches are not available, connections shall be made using approved drilled or
sawed tap and saddle. Breaking of sanitary sewer will not be allowed.
Procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F.
Manual of Practice No. 9 shall be followed at all times.
   (B)   All such connections and materials must be approved by the Director or
designee before installation.
(1960 Code, § 38-13-2)
§ 50.117 TESTING.
   At the discretion of the Inspector, a test may be required to ensure water
tightness of the building sewer. The building sewer shall be tested by
insertion of a test plug at the point of connection with the public sewer. The
building sewer shall be filled with water under a head of not less than ten
feet. The water level at the top of the test head of water shall not drop for
at least 15 minutes, or the test shall be made by attaching an air compressor
testing apparatus to any suitable opening and after closing all other inlets
and outlets to the system, forcing air into the system until there is a uniform
gauge pressure of five pounds per square inch (psi) or sufficient to balance a
column of mercury ten inches in height. This pressure shall be held without
introduction of additional air for a period of at least 15 minutes.
(1960 Code, § 38-13-3) (Ord. 4043, passed 2-21-1984)
§ 50.118 CONNECTION.
   (A)   The owners of all houses, buildings or properties situated within the
city and abutting upon any street, alley or other easement or right-of-way in
which there is now located or may in the future be located, a public sanitary
sewer, shall be required at their expense, to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and shall be requested to connect such facilities to the
sewer. If said public sewer is within 300 feet of the closest property line and
is of suitable size to handle the volume of sewage to be added, official notice
will be given to the property owner informing him or her that the sewer is
available and requesting that his or her connection be made within 180 days
following notification. Should the property owner fail to connect to the sewer
within the allotted time, the tap-on fee as covered by ordinance shall become
immediately due from the property owner to the city and, in addition thereto,
the property owner shall be required to pay the minimum rate for sewer service
in the city.
   (B)   In the event the property owner shall fail to connect to the sewer and
a health problem is created, the Health Officer of the city shall send a second
notice to the property owner requiring that connection be made to the sewer.
Within 15 days of receipt of the second notice, the property owner shall
connect to the sewer.
(1960 Code, § 38-13-4) (Ord. 4043, passed 2-21-1984)
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this
chapter for which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be fined not less
than $100, nor more than $1,000, for each offense. Each day in which any such
violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
      (2)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city by
reason of such violation.
(1960 Code, § 38-12-1)
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
50.004 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of up to $1,000 for each
violation.
(1960 Code, § 38-11-2)
   (C)   When the discontinuance agreement between the city and Illinois
American Company is in force for a premises, it shall be unlawful for anyone to
obstruct access in any manner to the water meter shut off valve, per §
50.021 of this chapter. The fine for the violation is not less than $100 or
more than $1,000. Each day of the violation is a separate offense.
(1960 Code, § 38-3-7)
   (D)   Any person, firm, organization or corporation who violates, disobeys,
omits, neglects or refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of
any provisions of §§
50.035 through
50.042 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000
for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day a
violation occurs or continues.
(1960 Code, § 38-4-7)
   (E)   Should the property owner fail to comply with the second notice
requiring that he or she be connected to the sewer, per §
50.118 of this chapter, he or she shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and,
on conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than $1,000.
Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall be
punishable hereunder as such.
(1960 Code, § 38-13-4)
(Ord. 4043, passed 2-21-1984; Ord. 4577, passed 11-7-1988; Ord. 7550, passed
12-19-2011; Ord. 7563, passed 1-17-2012)
CHAPTER 51: INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Purpose and policy
   
51.002   Administration
   
51.003   Definitions
   
51.004   Abbreviations
   
51.005   Confidential information
   
51.006   Publication of industrial users in significant non-compliance
   
51.007   Levying surcharge
   
51.008   Pretreatment charges and fees
Sewer Use Requirements
   
51.020   Prohibited discharge standards
   
51.021   Federal categorical pretreatment standards
   
51.022   State requirements
   
51.023   Specific pollutant limitations
   
51.024   City’s right of revision
   
51.025   Special agreement
   
51.026   Dilution
Pretreatment of Wastewater
   
51.040   Pretreatment facilities
   
51.041   Additional pretreatment measures
   
51.042   Slug control plans
   
51.043   Tenant responsibility
   
51.044   Hauled wastewater
   
51.045   Vandalism
Wastewater Discharge Permit Eligibility
   
51.060   Wastewater survey
   
51.061   Permit requirement
   
51.062   Permitting existing conditions
   
51.063   Permitting new connections
   
51.064   Permitting extra-jurisdictional industrial users
   
51.065   Permit application contents
   
51.066   Application signatories and certification
   
51.067   Permit decisions
Wastewater Discharge Permit Issuance Process
   
51.080   Permit duration
   
51.081   Permit contents
   
51.082   Permit appeals
   
51.083   Permit modification
   
51.084   Permit transfer
   
51.085   Permit revocation
   
51.086   Permit reissuance
   
51.087   Discharge permits
Reporting Requirements
   
51.100   Baseline monitoring reports
   
51.101   Compliance schedule progress report
   
51.102   Report on compliance with categorical pre-treatment standard deadline
   
51.103   Periodic compliance reports
   
51.104   Report of changed conditions
   
51.105   Reports of potential problems
   
51.106   Reports from non-significant industrial users
   
51.107   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting
   
51.108   Notification of the discharge of hazardous waste
   
51.109   Analytical requirements
   
51.110   Sample collection
   
51.111   Determination of non-compliance
   
51.112   Timing
   
51.113   Record keeping
   
51.114   Employee training
Compliance Monitoring
   
51.125   Inspection and sampling
   
51.126   Search warrants
Administrative Enforcement Remedies
   
51.140   Notification of violation
   
51.141   Consent orders
   
51.142   Show cause hearing
   
51.143   Compliance orders
   
51.144   Cease and desist orders
   
51.145   Administrative fines
   
51.146   Emergency suspensions
   
51.147   Termination of discharge
Supplemental Enforcement Action
   
51.160   Performance bonds
   
51.161   Liability insurance
   
51.162   Public nuisances
Affirmative Defenses to Discharge Violations
   
51.175   Upset
   
51.176   General/specific prohibitions
   
51.177   Bypass
 
   
51.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Hazardous Waste Notification Requirements
   
Appendix B:   Guidance to Illinois Industries for Reporting Discharges of
Hazardous Waste to Publicly-owned Treatment Works (POTWs)
   
Appendix C:   Enforcement Response Plan (Belleville)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the
wastewater collection and publicly-owned treatment works (POTW) for the city
and enables the city to comply with all applicable state and federal laws,
including the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.), and the general
pretreatment regulations (40 C.F.R. Part 403). Including 40 C.F.R. Part 403.12
(g)(6) Streamlining Rule.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that will
interfere with the operation of the POTW;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW which will
pass through the POTW, inadequately treated, into receiving waters or otherwise
be incompatible with the POTW;
      (3)   To ensure that the quality of the wastewater treatment plant sludge
is maintained at a level which allows its use and disposal in compliance with
applicable statutes and regulations;
      (4)   To protect POTW personnel who may be affected by wastewater and
sludge in the course of their employment and to protect the general public;
      (5)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewater and
sludge from the POTW;
      (6)   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of
operation, maintenance and improvement of the POTW; and
      (7)   To enable the city to comply with its NPDES permit conditions,
sludge use and disposal requirements and any other federal or state laws to
which the POTW is subject.
   (C)   This chapter shall apply to all industrial users of the POTW. The
chapter authorizes the issuance of wastewater discharge permits; authorizes
monitoring, compliance and enforcement activities; establishes administrative
review procedures; requires industrial user reporting; and provides for the
setting of fees for the equitable distribution of costs resulting from the
program established herein.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-1) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.002 ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the Director shall administer,
implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted to or
duties imposed upon the Director may be delegated by the Director to other city
personnel.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-2) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. SHALL is
mandatory; MAY is permissive or discretionary. The use of the singular shall be
construed to include the plural and the plural shall include the singular as
indicated by the context of its use.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.).
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Regional Administrator of the USEPA, or his or her
designee.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE INDUSTRIAL USER. The manager of one or more
manufacturing, production or operating facilities, provided the manager is
authorized to make management decisions which govern the operation of the
regulated facility including having the explicit or implicit duty of making
major capital investment recommendations, and initiate and direct other
comprehensive measures to assure long term environmental compliance with
environmental laws and regulations; can ensure that necessary systems are
established or actions taken to gather complete and accurate information for
control mechanism requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been
assigned or delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
      (1)   If the industrial user is a corporation, AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE
shall mean:
         (a)   The president, secretary, treasurer or a vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation;
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production or
operation facilities employing more than 250 persons or having gross annual
sales or expenditures exceeding $25,000,000 (in second-quarter 1980 dollars),
if authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in
accordance with corporate procedures;
      (2)   If the industrial user is a partnership, or a sole proprietorship,
an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE shall mean a general partner or proprietor,
respectively;
      (3)   If the industrial user is a federal, state or local governmental
facility, an AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE shall mean a director or highest
official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of
the government facility, or his or her designee;
      (4)   The individuals described in divisions (1) through (3) above may
designate another AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE if the authorization is in writing,
the authorization specifies the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the
written authorization is submitted to the city.
      (5)   If the designation of an authorized representative is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility, or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new authorization satisfying the requirements of
this section must be submitted to the district prior to or together with any
reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to implement
the prohibitions listed in section 2.1A and B (40 C.F.R. 403.5(a)(1) and (b)).
BMPs include treatment requirements, operating procedures, and practices to
control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or
drainage from raw material storage. BMPs also include alternative means (i.e.
management plans) of complying with, or in place of certain established
categorical pretreatment standards and effluent limits.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure,
five days at 20°C expressed in terms of mass and concentration (milligrams per
liter (mg/1)).
   CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER (CIU). An industry that performs activities
regulated by one or more of the federal regulations found in Title 40 Code of
Federal Regulations (40 C.F.R.) Parts 400-424 and 425-699.
   CARBONACEOUS OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). A method defined test measured by the
depletion of dissolved oxygen by biological organisms in a body of water in
which the contribution from nitrogenous bacteria has been suppressed.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with
§ 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which apply to a specific
category of industrial users and which appear in 40 C.F.R. Ch. 1, Subch. N,
parts 405 through 471.
   CITY. The City of Belleville or the City Council of Belleville.
   COLOR. The optical density at the visual wave length of maximum absorption,
relative to distilled water. One hundred percent transmittance is equivalent to
zero optical density.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. The sample resulting from the combination of individual
wastewater samples taken at selected intervals based on an increment of either
flow or time.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The City of Belleville.
   DAILY MAXIMUM. The arithmetic average of all effluent samples for a
pollutant collected during a calendar year.
   DAILY MAXIMUM LIMIT. The maximum allowable discharge limit of a pollutant
during a calendar year. Where daily maximum limits are expressed in units of
mass, the daily discharge is the total mass discharged over the course of the
day. Where daily maximum limits are expressed in terms of concentration, the
daily discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the pollutant
concentration derived from all measurements taken that day.
   DIRECTOR. The person designated by the city to supervise the operation of
the POTW, and who is charged with certain duties and responsibilities by this
chapter or his or her duly authorized representative.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA). The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency or, where appropriate, the term may also be used as a designation for
the Regional Water Management Division Director or other duly authorized
official of said agency.
   EXISTING SOURCE. Any source of discharge, the construction or operation of
which commenced prior to the publication of proposed categorical pretreatment
standards which will be applicable to such source if the standard is thereafter
promulgated in accordance with § 307 of the Act.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one time basis
without regard to the flow in the waste stream and over a period of time not to
exceed 15 minutes.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE ox DISCHARGE. The introduction of (non-domestic)
pollutants into the POTW from any non-domestic source regulated under § 307(b),
(c) or (d) of the Act.
   INDUSTRIAL USER or USER. A source of indirect discharge.
   INSTANTANEOUS MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE DISCHARGE LIMIT. The maximum concentration
(or loading) of a pollutant allowed to be discharged at any time, determined
from the analysis of any discrete or composite sample collected, independent of
the industrial flow rate and the duration of the sampling event.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge which alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
      (2)   Therefore, is a cause of a violation of the city's NPDES permit or
of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of
the following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder (or
more stringent state or local regulations): § 405 of the Clean Water Act; the
Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), including Title II commonly referred to as the
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); any state regulations contained
in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the
SWDA; the Clean Air Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; and the Marine
Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act.
   LOCAL LIMITS. Specific discharge limits developed and enforced by the city
upon industrial or commercial facilities to implement the general and specific
discharge prohibitions listed in C.F.R. 403.5(a)(1) and (b).
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
byproducts, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, fomites, etiologic agents,
contaminated bedding, surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory
wastes and dialysis wastes.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE. The sum of all "daily discharges" measured during a
calendar month divided by the number of "daily discharges" measured during that
month.
   MONTHLY AVERAGE LIMIT. The highest allowable average of "daily discharges"
over a calendar month, calculated as the sum of all "daily discharges" measured
during a calendar month divided by the number of "daily discharges" measured
during that month.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there
is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under § 307(c) of the
Act which will be applicable to such source if such standards are thereafter
promulgated in accordance with that section; provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed
at a site at which no other source is located;
         (b)   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production of wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source, should
be considered.
      (2)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria
of divisions (1)(b) or (1)(c) above, but otherwise alters, replaces or adds to
existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a NEW SOURCE, as defined hereunder, has commenced
if the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
            1.   Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation or removal of existing building, structures or facilities which is
necessary for the placement, assembly or installation of new source facilities
or equipment.
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under
this definition.
   NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product or
finished product.
   NON-SIGNIFICANT CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER. An industrial user that never
discharges more than 100 gallons per day (gpd) of total categorical wastewater
(excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler blowdown wastewater, unless
specifically included in the pretreatment standard) and meets the following
conditions:
      (1)   The industrial user, prior to Belleville's finding, has
consistently complied with all applicable categorical pretreatment standards
and requirements;
      (2)   The industrial user annually submits the certification statement
required by 40 C.F.R. 430.12(q), together with any additional information
necessary to support the certification statement; and
      (3)   The industrial user never discharges any untreated concentrated
wastewater.
   NPDES PERMIT. Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by
the Administrator or other appropriate authority, or where appropriate by the
Director, after enactment of the Federal Water Pollution Control Amendments of
1972, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., to regulate the discharge of pollutants
pursuant to § 402 of the Act.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the city's NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude
or duration of a violation).
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, government entity
or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or assigns.
This definition includes all federal, state or local governmental entities.
   pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution, expressed in
standard units.
   POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
municipal waste, filter backwash, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical
wastes, chemical wastes, industrial wastes, biological materials, radioactive
materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt,
agricultural and industrial wastes and the characteristics of the wastewater
(i.e.. pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, chemical oxygen demand
(COD), toxicity, odor).
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of the pollutant properties in
wastewater prior to or in lieu of introducing such pollutants into the POTW.
This reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or
biological processes, by process changes or by other means, except by diluting
the concentration of the pollutants unless allowed by an applicable
pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment imposed on an industrial user, other than a pretreatment
standard.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Prohibitive discharge standards, categorical
pretreatment standards and local limits.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in §
51.020.
   PUBLICLY-OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A “treatment works”, as defined by §
212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is owned by the state or municipality.
This definition includes any devices or systems used in the collection,
storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes
and any conveyances which convey wastewater to a treatment plant. The term also
means the municipal entity having jurisdiction over the industrial users and
responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the treatment works.
   REGIONAL ADMINISTRATOR. The Regional Administrator of Region 5 of the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency is the pretreatment approval authority in a
non-approved state such as Illinois.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers and septic tanks.
   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property damage to
the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or substantial
and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be expected to
occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not mean economic
loss caused by delays in production.
   SEWAGE. Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing
operations and the like).
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Applies to:
      (1)   Industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment standards; and
      (2)   Any other industrial user that:
         (a)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gpd or more of process
wastewater;
         (b)   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the treatment plant;
or
         (c)   Is designated as significant by the city on the basis that the
industrial user has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's
operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
   SIGNIFICANT NON-COMPLIANCE. An industrial user is in significant non-
compliance if its violation meets one of the following criteria:
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of all of the measurements for same pollutant
parameter taken during a six-month period equal or exceed (by any magnitude); a
numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous limits.
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those
in which 33% or more of all of the measurements for each pollutant parameter
taken during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of a numeric
pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous limits, multiplied
by the applicable TRC (TRC=1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease and 1.2 for
all other pollutants, except pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement
(daily maximum or longer-term average, instantaneous limits or narrative
standard) that the Director determines has caused, alone or in conjunction with
other discharges, interference or pass through (including endangering the
health of POTW personnel or the general public);
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to human health, welfare or to the environment or has resulted in the
Director's exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a
discharge under §
51.146;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in the industrial user's industrial
wastewater discharge permit or in a compliance order for starting construction,
completing construction or attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide, within 30 days after the due date, required
reports such as baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports,
periodic self-monitoring reports and reports on compliance with compliance
schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report non-compliance; and/or
      (8)   Any other violation (which may include a violation of best
management practices) or group of violations which the Director determines will
adversely affect the operation or implementation of the industrial pretreatment
program.
   SLUG LOAD. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration which could cause a
violation of the prohibited discharge (which has a reasonable potential to
cause interference or pass through or in any way violate the POTW's
regulations, local limits or permit conditions) standards in §
51.020 or any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, including, but not
limited to, an accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC) CODE. A classification pursuant to
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the U.S. Office of
Management and Budget.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting therefrom, including snowmelt.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of,
or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquid, and which is removable
by laboratory filtering.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. One of 126 pollutants, or combination of those pollutants,
listed as toxic in regulations promulgated by the EPA under the provision of §
307 (33 U.S.C. § 1317) of the Act.
   TREATMENT PLANT EFFLUENT. Any discharge of pollutants from the POTW into
waters of the state.
   WASTEWATER. Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes, and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW
designed to provide treatment of sewage and industrial waste.
   WATERS OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS. Includes: All accumulations of water,
surface and ground, natural, and artificial, public and private, or parts
thereof, which are wholly or partially within, flow through, or border upon the
State of Illinois.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-3) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.004 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings.
   BOD. Biochemical oxygen demand.
   C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations.
   COD. Chemical oxygen demand.
   EPA. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
   gpd. Gallons per day.
   l. Liter.
   mg. Milligrams.
   mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
   NPDES. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
   O&M. Operation and maintenance.
   POTW. Publicly-owned treatment works.
   RCRA. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.
   SIC. Standard industrial classifications.
   SWDA. Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.).
   TSS. Total suspended solids.
   U.S.C. United States Code.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-4) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.005 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   Information and data on an industrial user obtained from reports, surveys,
wastewater discharge permit applications, wastewater discharge permits and
monitoring programs, and from city inspection and sampling activities, shall be
available to the public without restriction, unless the industrial user
specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
city, that the release of such information would divulge information, processes
or methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets under
applicable state law. When requested and demonstrated by the industrial user
furnishing a report that such information should be held confidential, the
portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes
shall not be made available for inspection by the public, but shall be made
available immediately upon request to governmental agencies for uses related to
the NPDES program or pretreatment program, and in enforcement proceedings
involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and
characteristics and other "effluent data" as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 2.302 will
not be recognized as confidential information and will be available to the
public without restriction.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-68) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.006 PUBLICATION OF INDUSTRIAL USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NON-COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The city shall publish annually, in the largest daily newspaper
published in the municipality where the POTW is located, a list of the
industrial users which, during the previous 12 months, were in significant
noncompliance with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
   (B)   The term SIGNIFICANT NON-COMPLIANCE shall mean:
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of wastewater measurements taken during a six-month
period exceed the daily maximum limit or average limit for the same pollutant
parameter by any amount;
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those
in which 33% or more of wastewater measurements taken for each pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equals or exceeds the product of the daily
maximum limit or the average limit multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4
for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants, except
pH);
      (3)   Any other discharge violation that the city believes has caused,
alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass through
(including endangering the health of city personnel or the general public);
      (4)   Any discharge of pollutants that has caused imminent endangerment
to the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the city's exercise of
its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days of the scheduled date, a compliance
schedule milestone contained in a wastewater discharge permit or enforcement
order for starting construction, completing construction or attaining final
compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide within 30 days after the due date, any required
reports, including baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports,
periodic self-monitoring reports and reports on compliance with compliance
schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report non-compliance; and
      (8)   Any other violation(s) which the city determines will adversely
affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-69) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.007 LEVYING SURCHARGE.
   (A)   (1)   A surcharge will be levied upon all industrial users whose
wastes exceed a concentration of 200 milligrams per liter of BOD or 250
milligrams per liter of SS. The surcharge shall be expressed as dollars per
pound of each constituent (BOD or SS).
      (2)   Quarterly the number of pounds of each constituent from each user
subject to a surcharge shall be computed as follows:
         BOD (pounds) = (Average analysis per quarter in mg/l - 200) x total
flow (MG) x 8.34
         SS (pounds) = (Average analysis per quarter in mg/l - 250) x total
flow (MG) x 8.34
   (B)   Total flow for the quarter shall be either water meter or flow meter
readings and shall be expressed in million gallons (MG).
   (C)   The surcharge shall be the pounds of each constituent per billing
period times the unit cost for each constituent.
   (D)   The unit cost for BOD shall be $0.12 per pound and the unit cost for
SS shall be $0.08 per pound.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-94) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.008 PRETREATMENT CHARGES AND FEES.
   The city may adopt reasonable charges and fees for reimbursement of costs of
setting up and operating the city's pretreatment program which may include:
   (A)   Fees for wastewater discharge permit applications including the cost
of processing such applications;
   (B)   Fees for monitoring, inspection and surveillance procedures including
the cost of collection and analyzing an industrial user's discharge, and
reviewing monitoring reports submitted by industrial users;
   (C)   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge procedures
and construction:
   (D)   Fees for filing appeals; and
   (E)   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein. These fees relate solely to the matters covered
by this chapter and are separate from all other fees, fines and penalties
chargeable by the city.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-96) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
SEWER USE REQUIREMENTS
§ 51.020 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   No industrial user shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the
POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass through or interference.
These general prohibitions apply to all industrial users of the POTW whether or
not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any other
national, state or local pretreatment standards or requirement.
   (B)   Furthermore, no industrial user may contribute the following
substances to the POTW:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the municipal
wastewater collection system and POTW, including, but not limited to,
wastestreams with a closed-cup flashpoint of less than 140°F (60°C) using the
test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
      (2)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 12.3, or
otherwise causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment, or
endangering city personnel;
      (3)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference, but in no case solids
greater than one-half inch in any dimension;
      (4)   Any wastewater containing pollutants, including oxygen demanding
pollutants (BOD and the like), released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or
pollutant concentration which, either singly or by interaction with other
pollutants, will cause interference with either the POTW; or any wastewater
treatment or sludge process, or which will constitute a hazard to humans or
animals;
      (5)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 157°F (69°C), or
which will inhibit biological activity in the treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40°C);
      (6)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      (7)   Any pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (8)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the city in accordance with §
51.044;
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids or other
wastewater which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are
sufficient to create a public nuisance, a hazard to life or to prevent entry
into the sewers for maintenance and repair;
      (10)   Any wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant's
effluent thereby violating the city's NPDES permit. Color (in combination with
turbidity) shall not cause the treatment plant effluent to reduce the depth of
the compensation point for photosynthetic activity by more than 10% from the
seasonably established norm for aquatic life;
      (11)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes,
except as specifically approved by the Director in compliance with applicable
state or federal regulations;
      (12)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water,
roof runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, non-contact cooling water and unpolluted industrial wastewater, unless
specifically authorized by the Director;
      (13)   Any sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
      (14)   Any medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
Director in a wastewater discharge permit;
      (15)   Any wastewater causing the treatment plant's effluent to fail a
toxicity test;
      (16)   Any wastes containing detergents, surface active agents or other
substances which may cause excessive foaming in the POTW; and
      (17)   Any discharge of fats, oils, or greases of animal or vegetable
origin is limited to 100 mg/l.
   (C)   Wastes prohibited by this section shall not be processed or stored in
such a manner that they could be discharged to the POTW. All floor drains
located in process or materials storage areas must discharge to the industrial
user's pretreatment facility before connecting with the POTW.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-6) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.021 FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   The national categorical pretreatment standards found at 40 C.F.R. Ch. I,
Subch. N, parts 405 through 471 are hereby incorporated. The POTW may recognize
a variance from EPA on the basis of 40 CFR 403.13.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-7) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.022 STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State pretreatment standards located at 35 C.F.R. Subtitle C, Ch. I, part
307, are hereby incorporated.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-8) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.023 SPECIFIC POLLUTANT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The following pollutant limits are established to protect against pass
through and interference. No person shall discharge wastewater containing in
excess of the following instantaneous maximum allowable discharge limits.
2.85 mg/l   Arsenic
5.00 mg/l   Barium
750 mg/l    BOD5
0.31 mg/l   Cadmium
5.75 mg/l   Cyanide
3.83 mg/l   Copper
100.00 mg/l Iron
1.0 mg/l    Lead
1.0 mg/l    Manganese
0.0005 mg/l Mercury
3.0 mg/l    Nickel
100 mg/l    Oil and grease (petroleum or mineral oil products)
0.06 mg/l   Selenium
0.43 mg/l   Silver
2.77 mg/l   Total chromium
17.8 mg/l   Total phenols
600 mg/l    Total suspended solids
7.19 mg/l   Zinc
 
   (B)   Concentrations apply at the point where the industrial waste is
discharged to the POTW. All concentrations for metallic substances are for
"total" metal unless indicated otherwise. At his or her discretion, the
Director may impose mass limitations in addition to or in place of the
concentration based limitations above.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-9) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.024 CITY’S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The city reserves the right to establish, by code or in wastewater discharge
permits, more stringent standards or requirements on discharges to the POTW if
deemed necessary to comply with the objectives presented in §
51.001 or the general and specific prohibitions in §
51.020.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-10) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.025 SPECIAL AGREEMENT.
   (A)   The city reserves the right to enter into special agreements with
industrial users setting out special terms under which they may discharge to
the POTW.
   (B)   In no case will a special agreement waive compliance with a
pretreatment standard or requirement.
   (C)   (1)   However, the industrial user may request a net gross adjustment
to a categorical standard in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.15. They may also
request a variance from the categorical pretreatment standard from EPA. Such a
request will be approved only if the industrial user can prove that factors
relating to its discharge are fundamentally different from the factors
considered by EPA when establishing that pretreatment standard.
      (2)   An industrial user requesting a fundamentally different factor
variance must comply with the procedural and substantive provisions in 40
C.F.R. § 403.13.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-11) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.026 DILUTION.
   (A)   No industrial user shall ever increase the use of process water, or in
any way attempt to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute for
adequate treatment to achieve compliance with a discharge limitation unless
expressly authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirement.
   (B)   The Director may impose mass limitations on industrial users which are
using dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements or in
other cases when the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-12) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018) Penalty, see §
51.999
PRETREATMENT OF WASTEWATER
§ 51.040 PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Industrial users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to
comply with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all categorical
pretreatment standards, local limits and the prohibitions set out in §
51.020 within the time limitations specified by the EPA, the state or the
Director, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities required to pretreat
wastewater to a level acceptable to the city shall be provided, operated and
maintained at the industrial user's expense. Detailed plans showing the
pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the city
for review, and shall be acceptable to the city before construction of the
facility. The review of such plans and operating procedures will in no way
relieve the industrial user from the responsibility of modifying the facility
as necessary to produce an acceptable discharge to the city under the
provisions of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-14) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.041 ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT MEASURES.
   (A)   Whenever deemed necessary, the Director may require industrial users
to restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that certain
wastewater be discharged only to specific sewers or waste streams, necessary to
protect the POTW and determine the industrial user's compliance with the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Each person discharging into the POTW greater than 25,000 gallons per
day or greater than 0.4 MAD (5%) of the average daily flow in the POTW,
whichever is lesser, shall install and maintain, on his or her property and at
his or her expense, a suitable storage and flow control facility to ensure
equalization of flow over a 24-hour period.
   (C)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Director, they are necessary for the proper handling of
wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand; except
that, such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All
interception units shall be of type and capacity approved by the Director and
shall be so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Such
interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned and repaired regularly, as needed, by
the owner at his or her expense.
   (D)   Industrial users with the potential to discharge flammable substances
may be required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection
meter.
   (E)   At no time shall two readings on an explosion hazard meter at the
point of discharge into the POTW, or at any point in the POTW, be more than 5%,
nor any single reading over 10%, of the lower explosive limit (LED) of the
meter.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-15) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.042 SLUG CONTROL PLANS.
   (A)   Any industrial user will develop and implement a slug control plan.
   (B)   Industrial users shall develop and implement a slug control plan which
addresses, at a minimum, the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW of any slug
discharge. Such notification must also be given for any discharge which would
violate any of the prohibited discharges in §
51.020; and
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any slug discharge. Such
procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and maintenance of
storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and unloading
operations, control of plant site run-off, worker training, building of
containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants (including solvents) and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-16) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.043 TENANT RESPONSIBILITY.
   Where an owner of property leases premises to any other person as a tenant
under any rental or lease agreement, if either the owner or the tenant is an
industrial user, either or both may be held responsible for compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-17) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-20018)
§ 51.044 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Septic tank waste may be accepted into the POTW at a designated
receiving structure within the treatment plant area, and at such times as are
established by the Director; provided, such wastes do not violate §§
51.020 through
51.026 or any other requirements established or adopted by the city. Wastewater
discharge permits for individual vehicles to use such facilities shall be
issued by the Director.
   (B)   The discharge of hauled industrial wastes as "industrial septage"
requires prior approval and a wastewater discharge permit from the city. The
Director shall have authority to prohibit the disposal of such wastes, if such
disposal would interfere with the treatment plant operation. Waste haulers are
subject to all other sections of this chapter.
   (C)   Fees for dumping septage will be established as part of the industrial
user fee system as authorized in §
51.006.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-18) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.045 VANDALISM.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface, tamper with or prevent access to any structure,
appurtenance or equipment, or other part of the POTW. Any person found in
violation of this requirement shall be subject to the sanctions set out in §§
51.140 through
51.147,
51.160 through
51.162 and
51.999.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-19) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-20018) Penalty, see §
51.999
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT ELIGIBILITY
§ 51.060 WASTEWATER SURVEY.
   When requested by the Director all industrial users must submit information
on the nature and characteristics of their wastewater by completing a
wastewater survey. The Director is authorized to prepare a form for this
purpose and may periodically require industrial users to update the survey.
Failure to complete this survey shall be reasonable grounds for terminating
service to the industrial user and shall be considered a violation of the
chapter.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-23) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.061 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any significant industrial user to discharge
wastewater into the city's POTW without first obtaining a wastewater discharge
permit from the Director. Any violation of the terms and conditions of a
wastewater discharge permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and
subject the wastewater discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in §§
51.140 through
51.147,
51.160 through
51.162 and
51.999. Obtaining a wastewater discharge permit does not relieve a permittee of
its obligation to comply with all federal and state pretreatment standards or
requirements or with any other requirements of federal, state or local law.
   (B)   The Director may require other industrial users, including liquid
waste haulers, to obtain wastewater discharge permits as necessary to carry out
the purposes of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-24) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.062 PERMITTING EXISTING CONDITIONS.
   Any significant industrial user which discharges industrial waste into the
POTW prior to the effective date of this chapter and who wishes to continue
such discharges in the future, shall, within 60 days after said date, apply to
the city for a wastewater discharge permit in accordance with §
51.065, and shall not cause or allow discharges to the POTW to continue after
30 days of the effective date of this chapter, except in accordance with a
wastewater discharge permit issued by the Director.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-25) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996)
§ 51.063 PERMITTING NEW CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Any significant industrial user proposing to being or recommence
discharging industrial wastes into the POTW must obtain a wastewater discharge
permit prior to the beginning or recommencing of such discharge.
   (B)   An application for this wastewater discharge permit must be filed at
least 30 days prior to the date upon which any discharge will begin.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-26) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.064 PERMITTING EXTRA-JURISDICTIONAL INDUSTRIAL USERS.
   (A)   Any existing significant industrial user located beyond the city
limits shall submit a wastewater discharge permit application, in accordance
with §
51.065, within 30 days of the effective date of this chapter. New significant
industrial users located beyond the city limits shall submit such applications
to the Director 90 days prior to any proposed discharge into the POTW.
   (B)   Alternately, the Director may enter into an agreement with the
neighboring jurisdiction in which the significant industrial user is located to
provide for the implementation and enforcement of pretreatment program
requirements against said industrial user.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-27) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.065 PERMIT APPLICATION CONTENTS.
   (A)   In order to be considered for a wastewater discharge permit, all
industrial users required to have a wastewater discharge permit must submit the
information required by §
51.100(B).
   (B)   The Director shall approve a form to be used as a permit application.
In addition, the following information may be requested:
      (1)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises, including a list of all raw materials and chemicals used or stored at
the facility which are, or could accidentally or intentionally be, discharged
to the POTW;
      (2)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation and proposed or
actual hours of operation of the POTW;
      (3)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and
rate of production;
      (4)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum per
day);
      (5)   The site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and
details to show all sewers, floor drains and appurtenances by size, location
and elevation, and all points of discharge;
      (6)   Time and duration of the discharge; and
      (7)   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the Director to
evaluate the wastewater discharge permit application.
   (C)   Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will
be returned to the industrial user for revision.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-28) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.066 APPLICATION SIGNATORIES AND CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   All wastewater discharge permit applications and industrial user
reports must contain the following certification statement and be signed by an
authorized representative of the industrial user.
"I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is to the best of my knowledge and belief, true, accurate
and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting
false information, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment for
knowing violations."
   (B)   If an authorization under this section is no longer accurate because a
different individual or position has responsibility for the overall operation
of the facility, or overall responsibility for environmental matters for the
company, a new authorization satisfying the requirements of this section must
be submitted to the control authority prior to or together with any reports to
be signed by an authorized representative.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-29) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.067 PERMIT DECISIONS.
   The Director will evaluate the data furnished by the industrial user and may
require additional information. Within 90 days of receipt of a complete
wastewater discharge permit application, the Director will determine whether or
not to issue a wastewater discharge permit. If no determination is made within
this time period, the application will be deemed denied. The Director may deny
any application for a wastewater discharge permit.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-30) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT ISSUANCE PROCESS
§ 51.080 PERMIT DURATION.
   Wastewater discharge permits shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed five years. A wastewater discharge permit may be issued for a
period less than five years, at the discretion of the Director. Each wastewater
discharge permit will indicate a specific date upon which it will expire.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-33) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.081 PERMIT CONTENTS.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permits shall include such conditions as are
reasonably deemed necessary by the Director to prevent pass through or
interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving the treatment
plant's effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate sludge
management and disposal, protect ambient air quality and protect against damage
to the POTW.
      (1)   Self monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification and record
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency and sample
type based on federal, state and local law.
   (B)   Wastewater discharge permits must contain the following conditions:
      (1)   A statement that indicates wastewater discharge permit duration,
which in no event shall exceed five years;
      (2)   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is non-
transferable without prior notification to and approval from the city, and
provisions for furnishing the new owner or operator with a copy of the existing
wastewater discharge permit;
      (3)   Effluent limits applicable to the user based on applicable
standards in federal, state and local law; including best management practices;
      (4)   Self monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification and record
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency and sample
type based on federal, state and local law; and
      (5)   Statement of applicable civil, criminal and administrative
penalties for violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any
applicable compliance schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for
compliance beyond that required by applicable federal, state or local law.
      (6)   Requirements to control slug discharge, if determined by the
Director to be necessary.
   (C)   Wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not be limited to,
the following:
      (1)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (2)   Limits on the instantaneous, daily and monthly average and/or
maximum concentration, mass, or other measure of identified wastewater
pollutants or properties;
      (3)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works;
      (4)   Development and implementation of spill control plans or other
special conditions including management practices necessary to adequately
prevent accidental, unanticipated or routine discharges;
      (5)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
      (6)   The unit charge or schedule of industrial user charges and fees for
the management of wastewater discharged to the POTW;
      (7)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment;
      (8)   A statement that compliance with the wastewater discharge permit
does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all
applicable federal and state pretreatment standards, including those which
become effective during the term of the wastewater discharge permit; and
      (9)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Director to ensure
compliance with this chapter, and state and federal laws, rules and
regulations.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-34) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.082 PERMIT APPEALS.
   Any person, including the industrial user, may petition the city to
reconsider the terms of a wastewater discharge permit within 90 days of its
issuance.
   (A)   Failure to submit a timely petition for review shall be deemed to be a
waiver of the administrative appeal.
   (B)   In its petition, the appealing party must indicate the wastewater
discharge permit provisions objected to, the reasons for this objection and the
alternative condition, if any, it seeks to place in the wastewater discharge
permit.
   (C)   The effectiveness of the wastewater discharge permit shall not be
stayed pending the appeal.
   (D)   If the city fails to act within 90 days, a request for reconsideration
shall be deemed to be denied. Decisions not to reconsider a wastewater
discharge permit, not to issue a wastewater discharge permit or not to modify a
wastewater discharge permit, shall be considered final administrative action
for purposes of judicial review.
   (E)   Aggrieved parties seeking judicial review of the final administrative
wastewater discharge permit decision must do so by filing a complaint with the
St. Clair County local court.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-35) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.083 PERMIT MODIFICATION.
   (A)   The Director may modify the wastewater discharge permit for good cause
including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
      (2)   To address significant alterations or additions to the industrial
user's operation, processes or wastewater volume or character since the time of
wastewater discharge permit issuance;
      (3)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
      (4)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat
to the city's POTW, city personnel or the receiving waters;
      (5)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the wastewater discharge
permit;
      (6)   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
      (7)   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.13;
      (8)   To correct typographical or other errors in the wastewater
discharge permit; and
      (9)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership and/or operation to
a new owner/operator.
   (B)   The filing of a request by the permittee for a wastewater discharge
permit modification does not stay any wastewater discharge permit condition.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-36) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.084 PERMIT TRANSFER.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permits may be reassigned or transferred to a new
owner and/or operator only if the permittee gives at least 90 days' advance
notice to the Director and the Director approves the wastewater discharge
permit transfer.
   (B)   The notice to the Director must include a written certification by the
new owner and/or operator which:
      (1)   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate intent
to change the facility's operations and processes;
      (2)   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur; and
      (3)   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
wastewater discharge permit.
   (C)   Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the wastewater
discharge permit voidable on the date of facility transfer.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-37) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.085 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permits may be revoked for the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to notify the city of significant changes to the wastewater
prior to the changed discharge;
      (2)   Failure to provide prior notification to the city of changed
conditions pursuant to §
51.104;
      (3)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application;
      (4)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports;
      (5)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      (6)   Refusing to allow the city timely access to the facility premises
and records;
      (7)   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
      (8)   Failure to pay fines;
      (9)   Failure to pay sewer charges;
      (10)   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
      (11)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater
discharge permit application;
      (12)   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of a permitted
facility;
      (13)   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement, or any
terms of the wastewater discharge permit or the chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Wastewater discharge permits shall be voidable upon non-use,
cessation of operations or transfer of business ownership.
      (2)   All wastewater discharge permits are void upon the issuance of a
new wastewater discharge permit.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-38) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.086 PERMIT REISSUANCE.
   A significant industrial user shall apply for wastewater discharge permit
reissuance by submitting a complete wastewater discharge permit application in
accordance with §
51.065 a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the industrial user's
existing wastewater discharge permit.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-39) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.087 DISCHARGE PERMITS.
   (A)   In the event another municipality contributes all or a portion of its
wastewater to the POTW, the POTW may require such municipality to apply for and
obtain a municipal wastewater discharge permit.
   (B)   A municipal wastewater discharge permit application shall include:
      (1)   A description of the quality and volume of the wastewater at the
point(s) where it enters the POTW;
      (2)   An inventory of all industrial users discharging to the
municipality; and
      (3)   Such other information as may be required by the Director.
   (C)   A municipal wastewater discharge permit shall contain the following
conditions:
      (1)   A requirement for the municipal user to adopt a sewer use ordinance
which is at least as stringent as this chapter and local limits which are at
least as stringent as those set out in §
51.023;
      (2)   A requirement for the municipal user to submit a revised industrial
user inventory on at least an annual basis;
      (3)   A requirement for the municipal user to:
         (a)   Conduct pretreatment implementation activities including
industrial user permit issuance, inspection and sampling and enforcement; or
         (b)   Authorize the POTW to take or conduct such activities on its
behalf.
      (4)   A requirement for the municipal user to provide the city with
access to all information that the municipal user obtains as part of its
pretreatment activities;
      (5)   Limits on the nature, quality and volume of the municipal user's
wastewater at the point where it discharges to the POTW; and
      (6)   Requirements for monitoring the municipal user's discharge.
   (D)   Violation of the terms and conditions of the municipal user's
wastewater discharge permit subjects the municipal user to the sanctions set
out in §§
51.140 through
51.147,
51.160 through
51.162 and
51.999.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-40) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
§ 51.100 BASELINE MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   Within either 180 days after the effective dale of a categorical
pretreatment standard, or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing
significant industrial users subject to such categorical pretreatment
standards, and currently discharging to or scheduled to discharge to the POTW,
shall be required to submit to the city a report which contains the information
listed in division (B) below. At least 90 days prior to commencement of their
discharge, new sources, and sources that become industrial users subsequent to
the promulgation of an applicable categorical standard, shall be required to
submit to the city a report which contains the information listed in division
(B) below. A new source shall also be required to report the method of
pretreatment it intends to use to meet applicable pretreatment standards. A new
source shall also give estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of
pollutants discharged.
   (B)   The industrial user shall submit the information required by this
section, including:
      (1)   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility
including the name of the operator and owners;
      (2)   Wastewater discharge permits. A list of any environmental control
wastewater discharge permits held by or for the facility;
      (3)   Description of operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production, and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by such industrial user. This description should
include a schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the
POTW from the regulated processes;
      (4)   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily
and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula set out in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e);
      (5)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   Identify the categorical pretreatment standards applicable to
each regulated process.
         (b)   Submit the results of sampling and analysis identifying the
nature and concentration (and/or mass, where required by the standard or by the
city) of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process.
Instantaneous, daily maximum and long-term average concentrations (or mass,
where required) shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of daily
operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in §
51.109.
         (c)   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in §
51.110.
      (6)   Certification. A statement reviewed by the industrial user's
authorized representative and certified by a qualified professional, indicating
whether pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements;
and
      (7)   Compliance schedule. Each industrial user will be required to
develop a compliance schedule for the installation of technology to meet all
applicable pretreatment standards and requirements. Also each industrial user
will submit all notices and self-monitoring reports, as necessary, to access
and assure compliance by the industrial user with pretreatment standards and
requirements, including, but not limited to, the reports required in 40 C.F.R.
§ 403.12, reporting requirements for POTWs and industrial users.
   (C)   All baseline monitoring reports must be signed and certified in
accordance with §
51.066.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-43) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.101 COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE PROGRESS REPORT.
   The following conditions shall apply to the schedule required by §
51.100(B)(7). The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards (such events include but are not
limited to hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans,
executing contracts for major components, commencing and completing
construction, beginning and conducting routine operation). No increment
referred to above shall exceed nine months. The industrial user shall submit a
progress report to the Director no later than 14 days following each date in
the schedule and the final date of compliance including, as a minimum, whether
or not it complied with the increment of progress, the reason for any delay,
(and, if appropriate) the steps being taken by the industrial user to return to
the established schedule. In no event shall more than nine months elapse
between such progress reports to the Director.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-44) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.102 REPORT ON COMPLIANCE WITH CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD DEADLINE.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any industrial
user subject to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to
the city a report containing the information described in §
51.110(B)(4) through (B)(6). For industrial users subject to equivalent mass or
concentration limits established in accordance with the procedures in 40 C.F.R.
§ 403.6(c), this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the industrial
user's long-term production rate. For all other industrial users subject to
categorical pretreatment standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant
discharge per unit of production (or other measure of operation), this report
shall include the industrial user's actual production during the appropriate
sampling period. All compliance reports must be signed and certified in
accordance with §
51.066.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-45) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.103 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   Any industrial user subject to a categorical pretreatment standard,
after the compliance date of such pretreatment standard or, in the case of a
new source, after commencement of the discharge into the POTW, shall submit to
the control authority during the months of June and December, unless required
more frequently in the pretreatment standard or by the control authority or the
approval authority, a report indicating the nature and concentration of
pollutants in the effluent which are limited by such categorical pretreatment
standards. In addition, this report shall include a record of measured or
estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period for the
discharge reported in 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b)(4); except that, the control
authority may require more detailed reporting of flows. At the discretion of
the control authority and in consideration of such factors as local high or low
flow rates, holidays, budget cycles and the like, the control authority may
agree to alter the months during which the above reports are to be submitted.
   (B)   Where the control authority has imposed mass limitations on industrial
users as provided for by 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(d), the report required by division
(A) above and 40 C.F.R, §
403.12(e)(1) shall indicate the mass of pollutants regulated by pretreatment
standards in the discharge from the industrial user.
   (C)   For industrial users subject to equivalent mass or concentration
limits established by the control authority in accordance with the procedures
in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(C), the report required by division (A) above and 40
C.F.R. § 403.12(e)(1) shall contain a reasonable measure of the users long-term
production rate. For all other industrial users subject to categorical
pretreatment standards expressed only in terms of allowable pollutants
discharge per unit of production (or other measure of operation), the report
required by division (A) above and 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(e)(1) shall include the
user's actual average production rate for the reporting period. The industrial
user will also need to comply with best management practices per 40 C.F.R. Part
403.12(e). The IU will conduct representative sampling per 40 C.F.R. Part
403.12(g)(3). The industrial user will submit monitoring results for pollutants
monitored more frequently than required pursuant to 40 C.F.R. Part 403.12(g)
(6).
(1960 Code, § 38-14-46) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.104 REPORT OF CHANGED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Each industrial user is required to notify the Director of any planned
significant changes to the industrial user's operations or system which might
alter the nature, quality or volume of its wastewater at least 90 days before
the change.
   (B)   The Director may require the industrial user to submit such
information as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed condition,
including the submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under §
51.065.
   (C)   The Director may issue a wastewater discharge permit under §
51.067 or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under §
51.083.
   (D)   No industrial user shall implement the planned changed condition(s)
until and unless the Director has responded to the industrial user's notice.
   (E)   For purposes of this requirement flow increases of 10% or greater, and
the discharge of any previously unreported pollutants, shall be deemed
significant.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-47) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.105 REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge including, but not limited to, accidental
discharges, discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-customary batch
discharge or a slug load which may cause potential problems for the POTW
(including a violation of the prohibited discharge standards in §
51.020), it is the responsibility of the industrial user to immediately
telephone and notify the city of the incident. This notification shall include
the location of discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, if known,
and corrective actions taken by the industrial user. CIU's and NCSIU's are
required to report on changes that might impact the potential of a slug
discharge per 40 C.F.R. Part 403.12(f).
   (B)   Within five days following such discharge, the industrial user shall,
unless waived by the Director, submit a detailed written report describing the
cause(s) of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the industrial user
to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the
industrial user of any expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be
incurred as a result of damage to the POTW, natural resources or any other
damage to person or property; nor shall such notification relieve the
industrial user of any fines, civil penalties or other liability which may be
imposed by this chapter.
   (C)   Failure to notify the city of potential problem discharges shall be
deemed a separate violation of this code.
   (D)   (1)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the industrial user's
bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the
event of a discharge described in division (A) above.
      (2)   Employers shall ensure that all employees, who may cause or suffer
such a discharge to occur, are advised of the emergency notification procedure.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-48) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.106 REPORTS FROM NON-SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USERS.
   All industrial users not subject to categorical pretreatment standards and
not required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall provide appropriate
reports to the city as the Director may require.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-49) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.107 NOTICE OF VIOLATION/REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING.
   (A)   If sampling performed by an industrial user indicates a violation, the
industrial user must notify the control authority within 24 hours of becoming
aware of the violation. The industrial user shall also repeat the sampling and
analysis and submit the results of the repeat analysis to the control authority
within 30 days after becoming aware of the violation.
   (B)   The industrial user is not required to resample if the POTW performs
monitoring at the industrial user's at least once a month, or if the POTW
performs sampling between the industrial user's initial sampling and when the
industrial user receives the results of this sampling.
   (C)   If the POTW has performed the sampling and analysis in lieu of the IU
the POTW must perform the repeat sampling and analysis unless it notifies the
IU of the violation and requires the user to perform the repeat analysis per 40
C.F.R. Part 430.12(g)(2).
(1960 Code, § 38-14-50) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.108 NOTIFICATION OF THE DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   (A)   Any industrial user who commences the discharge of hazardous waste
shall notify the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director and
state hazardous waste authorities in writing of any discharge into the POTW of
a substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under
40 C.F.R. part 261. Such notification must include the name of the hazardous
waste as set forth in 40 C.F.R. part 261, the EPA hazardous waste number and
the type of discharge (continuous, batch or other). If the industrial user
discharges more than 100 kilograms of such waste per calendar month to the
POTW, the notification shall also contain the following information to the
extent such information is known and readily available to the industrial user;
an identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the wastes, an
estimation of the mass and concentration of such constituents in the
wastestream discharged during the calendar month, and an estimation of the mass
of constituents in the wastestream expected to be discharged during the
following 12 months. All notifications must take place no later than 180 days
after the discharge commences. Any notification under this division (A) need be
submitted only once for each hazardous waste discharged. However, notifications
of changed discharges must be submitted under §
51.104. The notification requirement in this section does not apply to
pollutants already reported under the self-monitoring requirements of §§
51.100,
51.102 and
51.103.
   (B)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of division (A) above
during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than 15 kilograms of
hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as specified in
40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than 15 kilograms of
non-acute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity of acute
hazardous wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires
a one-lime notification. Subsequent months during which the industrial user
discharges more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require
additional notification.
   (C)   In the case of any new regulations under § 3001 of the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.
identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any
additional substance as a hazardous waste, the industrial user must notify the
POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director and state hazardous
waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within 90 days of the
effective date of such regulations.
   (D)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the
industrial user shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the
volume and toxicity of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has
determined to be economically practical.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-51) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.109 ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as
part of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed
in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. part 136, unless
otherwise specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard. If 40
C.F.R. part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the
pollutant in question, where the administrator determines that the part 136
sampling and analytical techniques are inappropriate for the pollutant in
question, sampling and analysis shall be performed using validated analytical
methods or any other sampling and analytical procedures, including procedures
suggested by the POTW or other parties approved by the Administrator. Sampling
and analyses must be performed in accordance with procedures approved by the
EPA.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-52) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.110 SAMPLE COLLECTION.
   (A)   Except as indicated in division (B) below, the industrial user must
collect wastewater samples using 24 hour timed composite collection techniques.
In the event timed sampling is infeasible, the Director may authorize the use
of a minimum of four grab samples where the user demonstrates that this will
provide a representative sample of the effluent being discharged. In addition,
grab samples may be required to show compliance with instantaneous discharge
limits. Grab sample collection procedures must conform to 40 C.F.R. Part 403.12
(g)(4). All wastewater samples must be representative of the IU's discharge per
40 C.F.R. Part 403.12(g)(3).
   (B)   Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide, phenols,
toxicity, sulfides and volatile organic chemicals must be obtained using grab
collection techniques.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-53) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.111 DETERMINATION OF NON-COMPLIANCE.
   The Director may use a grab sample(s) to determine non-compliance with
pretreatment standards.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-54) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.112 TIMING.
   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the U.S. Postal Service, the date of receipt of the report
shall govern.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-55) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.113 RECORD KEEPING.
   (A)   Industrial users shall retain, and make available for inspection and
copying, all records and information required to be retained under this
chapter. These records shall remain available for a period of at least three
years.
   (B)   This period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any
litigation concerning compliance with this chapter, or where the industrial
user has been specifically notified of a longer retention period by the
Director.
   (C)   Documentation associated with Best Management Practices shall also be
retained pursuant to 40 C.F.R. Part 403.12(o).
(1960 Code, § 38-14-56) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.114 EMPLOYEE TRAINING.
   The industrial user shall permanently post a notice in a prominent place
advising all employees to call (618-233-6810) in the event of a dangerous
discharge for which notification is required. Employers shall advise all
employees who may cause or be injured by such a discharge of the emergency
notification procedure.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-57) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
COMPLIANCE MONITORING
§ 51.125 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to enter the facilities of any
industrial user to ascertain whether the purpose of this chapter, and any
permit or order issued hereunder, is being met and whether the industrial user
is complying with all requirements thereof. Industrial users shall allow the
Director or his or her representative ready access to all parts of the premises
for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and copying, and
the performance of any additional duties.
   (B)   Where an industrial user has security measures in force which require
proper identification and clearance before any entry into its premises, the
industrial user shall make necessary arrangements with its security guards so
that, upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the city,
state and EPA will be permitted to enter without delay, for the purposes of
performing their specific responsibilities.
   (C)   The city, state and EPA shall have the right to set up on the
industrial user's property, or require installation of, such devices as are
necessary to conduct sampling and/or metering of the user's operations.
   (D)   The city may require the industrial user to install monitoring
equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall
be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the
industrial user at its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow
and quality shall be calibrated periodically to ensure their accuracy.
   (E)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
industrial facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by
the industrial user at the written or verbal request of the Director and shall
not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be born by the
industrial user.
   (F)   Unreasonable delays in allowing city personnel access to the
industrial user's premises shall be a violation of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-66) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.126 SEARCH WARRANTS.
   If the Director has been refused access to a building, structure or property
or any part thereof, and if the Director has demonstrated probable cause to
believe that there may be a violation of this chapter or that there is a need
to inspect as part of a routine inspection program of the city designed to
verify compliance with this chapter or any permit or order issued hereunder, or
to protect the overall public health, safety and welfare of the community, then
upon application by the City Attorney, the Court Judge of the city shall issue
a search and/or seizure warrant describing therein the specific location
subject to the warrant. The warrant shall specify what, if anything, may be
searched and/or seized on the property described. Such warrant shall be served
at reasonable hours by the Director in the company of a uniformed police
officer of the city. In the event of an emergency affecting public health and
safety, inspections shall be made without the issuance of a warrant.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-67) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES
§ 51.140 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever the Director finds that any user has violated or is violating this
chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment requirement, the Director or his or her agent may serve upon said
user a written notice of violation. Within 30 days of the receipt of this
notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory
correction and prevention thereof, to include specific required actions, shall
be submitted by the user to the Director. Submission of this plan in no way
relieves the user of liability for any violations occurring before or after
receipt of the notice of violation. Nothing in this section shall limit the
authority of the city to take action, including emergency actions or any other
enforcement action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-72) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.141 CONSENT ORDERS.
   (A)   The Director is hereby empowered to enter into consent orders,
assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents establishing an
agreement with any user responsible for non- compliance.
   (B)   Such orders will include specific action to be taken by the user to
correct the non-compliance within a time period also specified by the order.
   (C)   Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as the
administrative orders issued pursuant to §§
51.143 and
51.144 and shall be judicially enforceable.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-73) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.142 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   The Director may order any user, which causes or contributes to violation(s)
of this chapter, wastewater discharge permits, or orders issued hereunder, or
any other pretreatment standard or requirement, to appear before the Director
and show cause why a proposed enforcement action should not be taken. Notice
shall be served on the user specifying the time and place for the meeting, the
proposed enforcement action, the reasons for such action and a request that the
user show cause why this proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The
notice of the meeting shall be served personally or by registered or certified
mail (return receipt requested) at least 30 days prior to the hearing. Such
notice may be served on any authorized representative of the user. Whether or
not the user appears as ordered, immediate enforcement action may be pursued
following the hearing date. A show cause hearing shall not be a prerequisite
for taking any other action against the user.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-74) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.143 COMPLIANCE ORDERS.
   When the Director finds that a user has violated or continues to violate the
chapter, wastewater discharge permits or orders issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, he may issue an order to the user
responsible for the discharge directing that the user come into compliance
within 30 days. If the user does not come into compliance within 30 days, sewer
service shall be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or
other related appurtenances are installed and properly operated. Compliance
orders may also contain other requirements to address the non- compliance,
including additional self-monitoring and management practices designed to
minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A compliance order
may not extend the deadline for compliance established for a federal
pretreatment standard or requirement, nor does a compliance order release the
user of liability for any violation, including any continuing violation.
Issuance of a compliance order shall not be a prerequisite or a bar to taking
any other action against the user.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-75) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.144 CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS.
   (A)   When the Director finds that a user has violated or continues to
violate this chapter, the user's wastewater discharge permit, any order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, or that the
user's past violations are likely to recur, the Director may issue an order to
the user directing it to cease and desist all such violations and directing the
user to:
      (1)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
      (2)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
   (B)   Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a prerequisite to
taking any other action against the user.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-76) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.145 ADMINISTRATIVE FINES.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other section of this chapter, any user that is
found to have violated any provision of this chapter, its wastewater discharge
permit and orders issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $1,000 per day per
violation. Such fines shall be assessed on a per violation, per day basis. In
the case of monthly or other long-term average discharge limits, fines shall be
assessed for each day during the period of violation.
   (B)   Assessments may be added to the user's next scheduled sewer service
charge and the Director shall have such other collection remedies as may be
available for other service charges and fees.
   (C)   Users desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request for
the Director to reconsider the fine along with full payment of the fine amount
within 60 days of being notified of the fine. Where a request has merit, the
Director shall convene a hearing on the matter within 90 days of receiving the
request from the industrial user. In the event the user's appeal is successful,
the payment together with any interest accruing thereto shall be returned to
the industrial user. The city may add the costs of preparing administrative
enforcement actions such as notices and orders to the fine.
   (D)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a prerequisite for
taking any other action against the user.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-77) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.146 EMERGENCY SUSPENSIONS.
   (A)   The Director may immediately suspend a user's discharge (after
informal notice to the user) whenever such suspension is necessary in order to
stop an actual or threatened discharge which reasonably appears to present or
cause an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons. The Director may also immediately suspend a user's discharge (after
notice and opportunity to respond) that threatens to interfere with the
operation of the POTW, or which presents or may present an endangerment to the
environment.
   (B)   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall immediately
stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user's failure to
immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the Director shall
take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer
connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW, its receiving stream or
endangerment to any individuals. The Director shall allow the user to
recommence its discharge when the user has demonstrated to the satisfaction of
the city that the period of endangerment has passed, unless the termination
proceedings set forth in §
51.147 are initiated against the user.
   (C)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence to the Director, prior to the date of any show
cause or termination hearing under §§
51.144 and
51.147.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing
prior to any emergency suspension under this section.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-78) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.147 TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE.
   (A)   In addition to those provisions in §
51.085, any user that violates the following conditions of this chapter,
wastewater discharge permits or orders issued hereunder, is subject to
discharge termination. This action is not a bar against or a prerequisite for
taking any other action against the user.
      (1)   Violation of wastewater discharge permit conditions;
      (2)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
      (3)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents and characteristics prior to discharge;
      (4)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose
of inspection, monitoring or sampling;
      (5)   Violation of the pretreatment standards in §§
51.020 through
51.026.
   (B)   Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its
discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause under §
51.142 why the proposed action should not be taken.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-79) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
SUPPLEMENTAL ENFORCEMENT ACTION
§ 51.160 PERFORMANCE BONDS.
   The Director may decline to reissue a wastewater discharge permit to any
user which has failed to comply with the provisions of this chapter, any
orders, or a previous wastewater discharge permit issued hereunder, unless such
user first files a satisfactory bond, payable to the city, in a sum not to
exceed a value determined by the Director to be necessary to achieve consistent
compliance.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-86) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.161 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   The Director may decline to reissue a wastewater discharge permit to any
user which has failed to comply with the provisions of this chapter, any orders
or a previous wastewater discharge permit issued hereunder, unless the user
first submits proof that it has obtained financial assurances sufficient to
restore or repair damage to the POTW caused by its discharge.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-87) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.162 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   Any violation of this chapter, wastewater discharge permits or orders issued
hereunder (or any other pretreatment standard or requirement) is hereby
declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed by the
Director or his or her designee. Any person(s) creating a public nuisance shall
be subject to the provisions of the city code governing such nuisances,
including reimbursing the city for any costs incurred in removing, abating or
remedying said nuisance.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-88) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS
§ 51.175 UPSET.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, UPSET means an exceptional incident
in which there is unintentional and temporary non-compliance with categorical
pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the
industrial user. An upset does not include non-compliance to the extent caused
by operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance or careless or improper
operation.
   (B)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for non-compliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of division (C) below are met.
   (C)   An industrial user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of
upset shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating
logs or other relevant evidence that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the industrial user can identify the cause(s)
of the upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      (3)   The industrial user has submitted the following information to the
Director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset; if this information is
provided verbally, a written submission must be provided within five days:
         (a)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of non-
compliance;
         (b)   The period of non-compliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the non-compliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (D)   In any enforcement proceeding, the industrial user seeking to
establish the occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (E)   Industrial users will have the opportunity for a judicial
determination on any claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for
non-compliance with categorical pretreatment standards.
   (F)   The industrial user shall control production or all discharges to the
extent necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards
upon reduction, loss or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-90) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.176 GENERAL/SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS.
   An industrial user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement
action brought against it for noncompliance with the general and specific
prohibitions in §
51.020 if it can prove that it did not know or have reason to know that its
discharge, along or in conjunction with discharges from other sources would
cause pass through or interference and that either:
   (A)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the industrial
user was in compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass
through or interference; or
   (B)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the user's prior discharge when the city was
regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit and, in the case of interference,
was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal requirements.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-91) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
§ 51.177 BYPASS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BYPASS. The intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of an
industrial user's treatment facility.
      SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage
to the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   (B)   Subject to.
      (1)   An industrial user may allow any bypass to occur which does not
cause pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it
also is for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation.
      (2)   These bypasses are not subject to the provision of divisions (C)
and (D) below.
   (C)   Notice.
      (1)   If an industrial user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it
shall submit prior notice to the POTW, at least ten days before the date of the
bypass, if possible.
      (2)   An industrial user shall submit verbal notice of an unanticipated
bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards to the POTW within 24
hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission
(provided within five days) shall contain a description of the bypass and its
cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if the
bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue;
and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent reoccurrence of the
bypass. The POTW may waive the written report on a case-by-case basis if the
verbal report has been received within 24 hours.
   (D)   Prohibition of bypass.
      (1)   Bypass is prohibited, and the POTW may take enforcement action
against an industrial user for a bypass, unless:
         (a)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury
or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         (c)   The industrial user submitted notices as required under division
(C) above.
      (2)   The POTW may approve an anticipated bypass, after considering its
adverse effects, if the POTW determines that it will meet the three conditions
listed in division (D)(1) above.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-92) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Injunctive relief. Whenever a user has violated a pretreatment
standard or requirement or continues to violate the provisions of this chapter,
wastewater discharge permits or orders issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment requirement, the Director may petition the Circuit Court of the
county through the City Attorney for the issuance of a temporary or permanent
injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific performance
of the wastewater discharge permit, order or other requirement imposed by this
chapter on activities of the industrial user. Such other action as appropriate
for legal and/or equitable relief may also be sought by the city. A petition
for injunctive relief need not be filed as a prerequisite or be a bar to taking
any other action against a user.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-81)
   (B)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   Any user which has violated or continues to violate this chapter,
any order or wastewater discharge permit hereunder, or any other pretreatment
standard or requirement shall be liable to the Director for a maximum civil
penalty of $1,000 per violation per day. In the case of a monthly or other
long-term average discharge limit, penalties shall accrue for each day during
the period of the violation.
      (2)   The Director may recover reasonable attorney's fees, court costs
and other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including sampling
and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred by the
city.
      (3)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the Court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration, any
economic benefit gained through the user's violation, corrective actions by the
user, the compliance history of the user and any other factor as justice
requires.
      (4)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a prerequisite for
taking any other action against a user.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-82)
   (C)   Criminal prosecution.
      (1)   Any user that willfully or negligently violates any provision of
this chapter, any orders or wastewater discharge permits issued hereunder or
any other pretreatment requirement shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000 per violation per day
or imprisonment for not more than one year or both.
      (2)   Any user that willfully or negligently introduces any substance
into the POTW which causes personal injury or property damage shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to a penalty of at least
$1,000 and/or be subject to imprisonment for one year. This penalty shall be in
addition to any other cause of action for personal injury or property damage
available under state law.
      (3)   Any user that knowingly makes any false statements, representations
or certifications in any application, record, report, plan or other
documentation filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this chapter,
wastewater discharge permit or order, or who falsifies, tampers with or
knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under
this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than
$1,000 per violation per day or imprisonment for not more than one year or
both.
      (4)   In the event of a second conviction, a user shall be punished by a
fine of not more than $1,000 per violation per day or imprisonment for not more
than one year or both.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-83)
   (D)   Remedies non-exclusive. The provisions in §§
51.140 through
51.147 and
51.160 through
51.162 are not exclusive remedies. The city reserves the right to take any, all
or any combination of these actions against a non-complaint user. Enforcement
of pretreatment violations will generally be in accordance with the city's
enforcement response plan. However, the city reserves the right to take other
action against any user when the circumstances warrant. Further, the city is
empowered to take more than one enforcement action against any non-complaint
user. These actions may be taken concurrently.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-84) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-2018,
passed 2-21-2018)
APPENDIX A: HAZARDOUS WASTE NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS
On July 24, 1990, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) promulgated changes
to the general pretreatment regulations (55 FR 30082). The changes affect both
publicly-owned treatment works (POTWs) and industrial users of POTWs. One of
the changes requires industrial users to submit a new one-time notification of
hazardous wastes discharged to sewers. Following is a brief description of this
new requirement.
Who Must Notify. All industrial users who discharge listed or characteristic
hazardous wastes under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) to
POTWs. Listed and characteristic wastes under RCRA are described in the Code of
Federal Regulations (40 CFR Part 261).
To Whom the Notification Must be Sent. The notification must be sent to:
-   Local Sewerage Authority
-   Director, Waste Management Division
   Environmental Protection Agency
   Region 5
-   State Hazardous Waste Authority
Wastes Covered by the Notification.
-   Any discharge to the sewer of more than fifteen (15) kilograms per calendar
month of a RCRA hazardous waste, or a discharge of any quantity of an acutely
hazardous waste identified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), should be
reported once.
-   A discharge of fifteen (15) kilograms or less of a RCRA hazardous waste
during a calendar month need not be reported, except for the acutely hazardous
wastes identified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). A subsequent discharge of
more than fifteen (15) kilograms during a calendar month, or of any quantity of
an acutely hazardous waste, must be reported once.
-   Pollutants already reported under 40 CFR 403.12(b), (d), and (e) (reporting
requirements for categorical users) are not subject to this notification
requirement.
What the Notification Must Contain.
1.   The one-time notification shall contain the following items of
information:
   -   Name of the hazardous waste as set forth in 40 CFR Part 261.
   -   EPA hazardous waste number.
   -   Type of discharge to the sewer (continuous, batch, or other).
   -   A certification that the industrial user has a program in place to
reduce the volume and toxicity of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it
has determined to be economically practical.
2.   If the industrial user discharges more than one hundred (100) kilograms of
hazardous waste per calendar month to the POTW, the one-time notification must
also contain the following items of information, to the extent such information
is known and readily available to the industrial user:
   -   An identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the
hazardous wastes.
   -   An estimation of the mass and concentration of such constituents in the
wastestreams discharged during the calendar month in which the one-time report
is made.
   -   An estimation of the mass of constituents in the wastestream expected to
be discharged during the twelve (12) months following the notification.
How to Count the Volume of Hazardous Waste Discharged. If a hazardous waste is
mixed with a non-hazardous process or non-process wastestream and the entire
mixture is then discharged to the sewer, the volume of hazardous waste in the
entire wastestream is counted according to the RCRA “mixture rule” in 40 CFR
261.3(a)(2)(iii). The effect of this rule is summarized as follows:
-   Characteristic Wastes. These are wastes that are classified as hazardous
only because they exhibit one of the hazardous characteristics identified in 40
CFR 261.20-261.24 (i.e., they are ignitable, corrosive, reactive or toxic). If
these wastes are mixed with non-hazardous materials and the mixture is then
discharged to the sewer, the notification must be submitted only if the entire
mixture actually discharged were more than fifteen (15) kilograms per calendar
month in volume and if the entire mixture discharged still exhibited the
characteristic(s).
-   Listed Wastes. These are wastes that are classified as hazardous pursuant
to being listed in 40 CFR 261.30-33. If these listed wastes are mixed with non-
hazardous materials and then discharged to the sewer, the entire wastestreams
is considered hazardous and the notification must be submitted. Thus only if
the entire wastestreams containing the hazardous waste amounted to fifteen (15)
kilograms per month or less would the exemption discussed above apply.
-   If an industrial user has any doubt about whether a mixture discharged to
the sewer is hazardous, or if the user does not wish to perform any
calculations which may be necessary under the mixture rule, the user should
submit the one-time notification.
When the Notification Must be Submitted.
-   The notification must be submitted within one hundred eighty (180) days of
August 23, 1990 (i.e., no later than February 23, 1991).
-   Industrial users who commence discharging after August 23, 1990 must submit
the notification no later than one hundred eighty (180) days after the
discharge of a hazardous waste.
-   In the case of regulations under Section 3001 of RCRA identifying new
hazardous wastes, the notification must be submitted within ninety (90) days of
the effective date of such regulations.
-   The notification need be submitted only once for each hazardous waste
discharged, except when there will be a substantial change in the volume or
character of the hazardous waste discharged (generally because of a planned
change to the user’s facility or operations). In the case of such a change, the
user should notify the POTW in advance.
For Further Information.
-   General questions about the requirements should be directed to the
pretreatment manager of your local sewerage authority. Questions about whether
your waste is hazardous should be directed to the EPA RCRA Hotline (800/424-
9346).
   Illinois Addresses for Notification
   Director, Waste Management Division            Illinois EPA
   U.S. EPA Region 5                      Division of Land Pollution Control
   230 South Dearborn Street                   Attn: Karen Hoffman
   Chicago, IL 60604                     2200 Churchill Road
                              P.O. Box 19276
                              Springfield, IL 62794-9276
Hazardous Constituent Information.
 
            Mass in     Concentration
Name of     Wastestream in            Mass in Wastestream
Constituent (this       Wastestream   (next 12 months)
            month)      (this month)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
 
 
I certify that I have a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity of
hazardous wastes generated to the degree I have determined to be economically
practical.
Signature of Company Representative                 Date
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a6e87a4116126ef095e0b42be1f7acd6f84f323a/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3287.jpg]
 
(1960 Code, Ch. 38, Appendix) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-
2018, passed 2-21-2018)
APPENDIX B: GUIDANCE TO ILLINOIS INDUSTRIES FOR REPORTING DISCHARGES
OF HAZARDOUS WASTE TO PUBLICLY- OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTWs)
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency
Office of Water Management
State Pretreatment Group
Section I: Introduction.
   On July 24, 1990, the USEPA promulgated the Domestic Sewage Study (DSS)
Rule, and amendment to the General Pretreatment Regulations (40 CFR 403) that
became effective on August 23, 1990. This rule contains two new provisions
requiring industries to report the substances that they discharge to the POTW
if the substances would otherwise be hazardous waste under 40 CFR 261.
   The first report 403.12(p) is a one-time notice to the local POTW authority
and the State and Regional hazardous waste authorities (see Section VI).
Affected industries that were discharging on August 23, 1990 must submit the
report by February 23, 1991. Affected industries commencing discharge after
August 23, 1990 must submit the report within one hundred eighty (180) days
after starting discharge. Also, 403.12(p)(3) requires affected industries to
update their initial notices in the future whenever the USEPA identified any
new hazardous wastes under RCRA 3001 within ninety (90) days of the effective
date of the new regulation.
   The second report 403.12(j) is the requirement for the industry to promptly
notify the POTW in advance of any substantial changes in the volume or
character of the pollutants in the discharge. Wherever the substantial change
involves a substance reported under 403.12(p), the 403.12(j) report should
update the information in the first notice.
Section II: Contents of the Reports.
   The industry should use Sections III-V below to determine what information
should be reported. Section III identifies the hazardous waste substances. If
the industry’s discharge contains none of these substances, the industry is not
affected by 403.12(p).
   If the industry’s discharge contains a hazardous waste identified in Section
III, the industry should refer to Section IV to determine if the substance must
be reported. If it does not need to be reported, the industry, again, is not
affected by 403.12(p).
   If the industry discharges any waste substances that must be reported under
403.12(p), the industry must include the information specified in Section V for
each affected waste substance. However, there is an important exception.
Categorical industries do not have to report pollutants that are already
reported in the: (1) Baseline Monitoring Report (BMR) 403.12(b), (ii) 90-Day
final Compliance Report 403.12(d), and (iii) Periodic Reports 403.12(e).
   If an industry is unaffected by 403.12(p), we recommend that the industry at
least notify the regulatory agencies in Section VI why they are not affected.
Although this is not required, it will help avoid any misunderstandings that
may result from the lack of communication.
Section III: Hazardous Waste Substances.
A.   Listed Wastes (261.30-33): Waste substances identified on one of the
following lists:
   1.   Acute hazardous wastes (designated by Hazard Code “H”):
      a.   “P” listed wastes 261.33(e) from any discarded (unused) commercial
chemical product (or manufacturing intermediate), off-specification commercial
chemical product (or manufacturing intermediate), or spill residues, and
      b.   “F” listed wastes 261.31 identified acute under 261.30(d). (“K”
listed wastes 261.32 may be identified in the future.)
   2.   Non-acute* hazardous wastes:
      a.   “F” listed wastes 261.31 from non-specific sources that are not
acute;
      b.   “K” listed wastes 261.32 from specific sources that are not acute
(presently, none are acute);
      c.   “U” listed wastes 261.33(f) from and discarded (unused) commercial
chemical product (or manufacturing intermediate), off-specification commercial
chemical product (or manufacturing intermediate), or spill residues.
*Note: All “U” listed wastes and some “F”, “K” and “P” listed wastes are Toxic
Wastes (designated by Hazard Code “T”).
B.   Characteristic Hazardous Wastes (261.20-24): Unlisted waste substances
that are hazardous because they exhibit at least one of the following hazardous
characteristics:
   1.   Ignitability (Hazard Code: I) (261.21),
   2.   Corrosivity (Hazard Code: C) (261.22),
   3.   Reactivity (Hazard Code: R) (261.23), or
   4.   Toxicity Characteristic** (Hazard Code: E) (261.24).
**Note: The Toxicity Characteristic (TC) replaced the Extraction Procedure (EP)
Toxicity for large quantity generators (more than 1,000 kilograms/month) on
September 25, 1990. Small quantity generators (100-1,000 kilograms/month) are
subject to the EP Toxicity test until March 29, 1991.
Section IV: Wastes That Must Be Reported.
   The definition criteria for hazardous waste under 261.3(a)(2)(ii)-(iii)
decide the regulatory status of the hazardous waste substances (Section III).
If a substance does not fulfill the criteria, it is not deemed hazardous and,
hence, is exempt from the 403.12(p) reporting requirement. The purpose of this
Section is to explain how these criteria affect the status of a waste.
A.   According to 261.3(a)(2)(ii), a listed waste (261.30-.33) is no longer
hazardous if it is de-listed under 260.20 and 260.22. Therefore, a de-listed
waste does not need to be reported.
B.   If a hazardous waste mixes with non-hazardous waste streams prior to being
discharged to the POTW, the waste is subject to the “mixture rule” 261.3(a)(2)
(iii). This rule affects the regulatory status of the different categories of
hazardous wastes differently.
   1.   If a substance is a characteristic hazardous waste (261.20-24), it
becomes non-hazardous if it no longer exhibits the hazardous characteristic
after mixing. However, if the hazardous characteristic persists after mixing,
the entire discharge becomes characteristic hazardous waste that must be
reported if the quantity exceeds fifteen (15) kilograms/month.
   2.   If the substance is a listed hazardous waste 261.30-33 solely because
it exhibits one of the hazardous characteristics 261.20-24, the substance is
subject to the same requirements as a characteristic hazardous waste. This
applies only to listed wastes with the following Hazardous Codes: I, C, R and
E.
   3.   If, however, the substance is a listed acute or toxic hazardous waste
261.30-33 (Hazard Codes: H, T), the entire discharge containing the substance
becomes acute or toxic hazardous waste. The industry must report any quantity
of discharge that is acute hazardous waste or any discharge above fifteen (15)
kilograms/month that is toxic hazardous waste. Effluent or residue from the
pretreatment of acute or toxic hazardous waste continues to be hazardous unless
it is de-listed.
   If the industry needs assistance deciding if its discharge is hazardous,
call the EPA RCRA Hotline (800/424-9346).
Section V: Minimum Information Required for Each Affected Waste.
A.   The industrial user must certify that they have a program in place to
reduce the volume and toxicity of hazardous wastes being generated to the
degree that has been determined to be economically feasible 403.12(p)(4).
B.   Information Required for each Waste:
   1.   Name of hazardous waste (as listed in 261),
   2.   EPA hazardous waste number, and
   3.   Type of discharge (continuous, batch, other-specify).
C.   Additional information required for wastes discharged in quantities above
one hundred (100) kilograms/month (to the extent that the information is known
and readily available to the industry):
   1.   Identification of hazardous constituents in the waste,
   2.   Estimate of mass and concentration of each hazardous constituent
discharged in one (1) month, and
   3.   Estimate of the mass of constituents expected to be discharged during
the following twelve (12) months.
Section VI: Agencies That Must Be Notified Under (403.12(p)).
   1.   Local Sewage Plant Authority (Local Pretreatment Coordinator if
authority has an approved pretreatment program),
   2.   Hazardous Waste Record Officer
      Illinois Environmental Protection Agency
   3.   Mr. David Ullrich, Director
      Waste Management Division 5H-12
      U.S. EPA Region 5
      230 South Dearborn Street
      Chicago, IL 60604
(1960 Code, Ch. 38, Appendix) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996; Am. Ord. 8173-
2018, passed 2-21-2018)
APPENDIX C: ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE PLAN (BELLEVILLE)
1.   GENERAL.
The purpose of the City’s Enforcement Response Plan is to provide guidance for
Treatment Plant staff in all phases of enforcement related to the City’s
Industrial Pretreatment Program. General guidance has been provided by the
City’s Sewer Use Code No. 5677, but specific application of that general
guidance to the range of possible enforcement actions is needed.
Elements of this plan are based on the experience of both treatment plant
personnel and other municipalities in controlling industrial wastewaters. USEPA
guidance manuals and model enforcement plans of other cities were used in the
development of this plan.
2.   INDUSTRIAL PRETREATMENT PROGRAM.
Ordinance 5677 implements the Pretreatment Program as required by the City’s
NPDES wastewater discharge permit as mandated by the Clean Water Act and the
General Pretreatment Regulations. It provides regulations for discharge
prohibitions, categorical discharge standards and specific pollutant
limitations in Division II. It provides for permits for significant industrial
users and reporting requirements in Division VI, Enforcement and Penalties in
Division X. The enforcement philosophy is progressive; that is, problems are
addressed at the lowest level and with the least formality possible consistent
with the specific problem. No enforcement procedure is contingent upon the
completion of any less formal procedure. For particularly severe violations, a
Show Cause Hearing may be scheduled immediately without the need for Notice of
Violation, Review Meeting and other Orders.
Division VI of Ordinance 5677 requires that all significant industrial users
obtain a wastewater discharge permit as a condition of discharge. Permits are
issued for a period of not more than five (5) years, and require installation
and operation of sampling and monitoring facilities, establish compliance
schedules and require submission of periodic reports and notices as needed. The
wastewater discharge permit represents the City’s first means of controlling
the wastewater discharge by significant industrial users since, if permit
requirements are met by the permittee, no further enforcement activity should
be required.
The permit also represents an enforcement device for the City’s use against
significant industrial users violations, since the City, after a Show Cause
Hearing, may direct a revocation of a user’s permit which effectively bars
discharge of industrial process wastewater to the POTW. Chapter 38 does not
provide detailed guidance on the characterization of violations, determination
of significant noncompliance, “the triggering events” that require an analysis
of enforcement remedies available or the process of determining users who are
in significant noncompliance for the purposes of the annual newspaper notice.
These areas are covered in the following sections.
3.   RESPONSIBILITIES.
The Industrial Pretreatment Program is administered by the Director of the
Treatment Plant under the general supervision of the Master Sewer Committee,
the Mayor and the City Council. The Director may delegate certain tasks to
subordinates, particularly the Pretreatment Coordinator and the Pretreatment
Technician. The Director shall maintain complete, accurate records of
activities conducted as part of the Pretreatment Program. Specific
responsibilities are set forth in succeeding sections of this document.
4.   COLLECTION AND EVALUATION OF INFORMATION.
For each industrial user, the Director shall determine what data are required
or needed to determine compliance with applicable pretreatment standards as
well as when and how it can be obtained. The Director shall specify reporting
requirements for each industrial user in its permit as required by USEPA and
shall then track the submission of reports. If information submitted is
deficient or late, the industrial user shall be notified and required to
complete the submission as detailed in the appropriate enforcement response.
The Director shall notify significant industrial users of applicable
pretreatment standards and any RCRA requirements as described in 40 CFR, Part
403.8(f)(2)(iii). By reporting the results of sampling and analysis to
industrial users, the Director will provide feedback to users on compliance
status and inform industrial users of their compliance with the City’s
enforcement requirements and the City’s general responses to instances of
noncompliance.
5.   SAMPLING AND INSPECTION OF INDUSTRIAL USERS.
The Director shall prepare and continually update an inspection plan for field
investigations including sample collection, facility inspections and flow
monitoring. Field investigations shall be used to verify compliance status, to
monitor industrial user self-monitoring activities, to collect samples, to
initiate emergency or remedial action and to gather additional information.
City personnel may conduct routine compliance monitoring or special monitoring
in response to violations, technical problems or support for permit
modifications.
6.   COMPLIANCE SCREENING.
Using all available information, the Director shall conduct an initial
compliance review or screening process to determine and assess compliance with
schedules, reporting requirements and applicable pretreatment standards. Such
screening shall be undertaken at least monthly. Reviews completed under this
Section are designed to identify apparent violations rather than to determine
an appropriate enforcement response to such apparent violations.
During the screening process, the reviewer shall verify that any required
reports are submitted on schedule, that they cover and proper time period,
include all information required in the particular report and are properly
signed. As part of this process, the reviewer will compare the information
supplied with
the requirements in the industrial user’s permit. Any discrepancy shall be
considered to be a violation. To the extent possible, the industrial user will
be required to correct such discrepancies immediately upon their discovery.
7.   ENFORCEMENT EVALUATION.
Violations and discrepancies identified during the compliance screening process
will be reviewed by the Director to evaluate the type of enforcement response
required. The enforcement response guide attached to the plan will be used for
the determination.
8.   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE (SNC).
After completion of the compliance screening, violations will be characterized
and a determination made as to whether the user is in Significant Noncompliance
(SNC) as defined in 40 CFR 403.8(f)(2)(viii). Certain instances of
noncompliance are not of sufficient impact to justify extensive enforcement
actions. However, certain violations or patterns of violations are significant
and must be identified as such. Such SNC may be on an individual or long-term
basis of occurrence. Categorization of industrial users as being in SNC allows
the City to establish priorities for enforcement action and provides a means
for reporting on the significant industrial user performance summary. Instances
of SNC are industrial user violations which meet one or more of the following
criteria:
   a.   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which sixty-six percent (66%) or more of all of the measurements for
same pollutant parameter taken during a six (6) month period exceed (by any
magnitude) a numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including
instantaneous limits for the same pollutant parameter;
   b.   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those in
which thirty-three percent (33%) or more of all of the measurements for each
pollutant parameter taken during a six (6) month period or exceed the product
of a numeric pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous
limits multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC = 1.4 for BOD, TSS, Fats, Oil &
Grease and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
   c.   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement that the
Director determines has caused, alone or in combination with other discharges,
interference or pass through (including endangering the health of POTW
personnel or the general public).
   d.   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment to
human health, welfare or to the environment or has resulted in the Director’s
exercise of its emergency authority under Chapter 38.
   e.   Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in the Industrial User’s Industrial
Wastewater Discharge Permit or in a Compliance Order for starting construction,
completing construction, or attaining final compliance;
   f.   Failure to provide, within thirty (30) days after the due date,
required reports such as baseline monitoring reports, ninety (90) day
compliance reports, periodic self-monitoring reports, and reports on compliance
with compliance schedules.
   g.   Failure to accurately report noncompliance;
   h.   Any other violation or group of violations which may include a
violation of best management practices the Director determines will adversely
affect the operation or implementation of the Industrial Pretreatment Program.
   When an industrial user is in SNC, the City shall (1) report such
information to the IEPA and the USEPA Region V as part of the Pretreatment
Annual Report; (2) list the industrial user in a newspaper of general
circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdiction; and
(3) address the SNC through appropriate enforcement action.
9.   ANNUAL PUBLICATION OF INDUSTRIAL USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
General Pretreatment Regulations require the City to publish, at least
annually, in the largest daily newspaper within the area served by the City’s
POTW, a list of industrial users which were in SNC during the previous twelve
(12) months. The procedures for compiling the list of such industrial users is
as follows:
A.   The Director shall prepare a compliance history from City records for each
individual significant industrial user.
B.   The compliance history so obtained for each industrial user shall be
reviewed to determine if a pattern of non-compliance exists or if the industry
has been or continues to be in SNC. To the extent that an industry meets these
Criteria, it will be placed on the list for publication.
10.   INFORMAL AND FORMAL MEANS OF ENFORCEMENT.
I.   Informal Actions.
   A.   Information Notice; personal contact, telephone call or letter - PC, S,
T
   B.   Compliance Meeting - PC, S
II.   Formal Actions.
   A.   Administrative Action.
      1.   Field Inspection Citation - T, PC, S
      2.   Notice of Violation - S
      3.   Administrative Orders.
         i.   Order to appear.
            a.   Review Meeting - S
            b.   Show Cause Hearing - S, C & A
         ii.   Consent Order - S, C
         iii.   Compliance Order - S, C
         iv.   Cease and Desist Order - S, C
   B.   Emergency Situation.
      1.   Harmful Discharge.
         i.   Danger to Persons - S & A
         ii.   Danger to Environment or Interference with POTW operations - S &
C
   C.   Revocation of Permit - C
   D.   Legal Actions.
      1.   Judicial Remedies - A
      2.   Injunctive Relief - A
III.   Monetary Penalties and Costs.
   A.   Administrative Fines - S
   B.   Civil Penalties - C, A
   C.   Costs of Damages - S, A
IV.   Criminal Prosecution.
   A.   Violations, willful or negligent - A
   B.   Falsifying Information - A
Identification of Personnel:
      T - Pretreatment Technician         C - Master Sewer Committee
      PC - Pretreatment Coordinator      A - City Attorney
      S - Director
11.   DESCRIPTION OF ENFORCEMENT ACTIVITIES.
The categories of enforcement activities are described in the succeeding
paragraphs.
I.   Information Actions.*
   A.   Informal Notice. Informal notice consists of personal contact,
telephone calls or reminder letters to an appropriate official of an industrial
user. The City may use such a call or letter to notify an industrial user of a
minor violation and to seek an explanation, suggest compliance remedies or
notify the violator that subsequent violations may be dealt with more severely.
Such information notice may be used to correct minor inadvertent noncompliance.
   B.   Compliance Meeting. Information Compliance Meeting with the industrial
user to resolve recurring noncompliance. The City may request a compliance
meeting for the purpose of conference, conciliation and persuasion.
   *Information notice is not a prerequisite for a compliance meeting and no
informal procedure is a prerequisite for instituting formal enforcement
procedures.
II.   Formal Actions.
   A.   Administrative Action.
      1.   Field Inspection Citation. Warning Notice of Violation for minor
violations of permit conditions detected through inspections or field
investigations.
      2.   Notice of Violation. Written notice to the industrial user that the
City has observed a violation of pretreatment standards or requirements and
requires the industrial user to submit, within ten (10) days of receiving the
notice, an explanation of the violation and a
         plan for the satisfactory correction and prevent of the violation,
including specific required actions.
      3.   Administrative Orders. Administrative Orders may be issued by the
Director. The Master Sewer Committee may, as a result of a Show Cause Hearing,
direct the Director to issue such Administrative Orders as it deems
appropriate.
         i.   Order to Appear.
            a.   Review Meeting. Mandatory compliance meeting with industrial
user in cases where continued violations occur or where violations in
themselves are either of significant magnitude or duration.
            b.   Show Cause Hearing. The Director may order any industrial user
who causes or allows an unauthorized discharge or violates the City’s
pretreatment program to show cause before the Master Sewer Committee why the
City should not revoke the industrial user’s wastewater discharge permit or
take such other enforcement action as is dictated by the facts of the case.
         ii.   Consent Order. The Director may enter into Consent Orders
establishing an agreement with the industrial user responsible for the
noncompliance within a time period also specified by the order. Consent Orders
have the same force and effect as Compliance Orders.
         iii.   Compliance Order. When the Director finds that a user has
violated or continues to violate the ordinance or a permit or order issued
thereunder, he may issue an order to the industrial user responsible for the
discharge directing that, following a specified time period, sewer service
shall be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or other
related appurtenances have been installed and are properly operated. Orders may
also contain such other requirements as might be reasonably necessary and
appropriate to address the noncompliance, including the installation of
pretreatment technology, additional self-monitoring, and management practices.
         iv.   Cease and Desist Order. The Director may issue an order to cease
and desist all violations and direct the industrial user to comply forthwith or
take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be needed to
properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting
operations and terminating the discharge.
   B.   Emergency Suspension.
      1.   Harmful Discharge.
         i.   Danger to Persons. The Director shall halt or prevent any
discharge of pollutants to the POTW that reasonably appears to present an
imminent endangerment to the health or welfare of persons. When the Director
determines that such an emergency situation exists, he shall issue a verbal
order (followed immediately by a written order) to the user stating the problem
and requiring immediate cessation of the discharge. The Director shall obtain
the concurrence of the City Attorney before initiating any actions.
         ii.   Danger to the Environment or Interference with POTW operations.
The Director shall halt or prevent any discharge to the POTW that presents or
may present an endangerment to the environment or that threatens to interfere
with operation of the POTW. The Director shall issue a written notice to the
discharger stating the nature of the problem and requesting a response. If
satisfactory agreement between the
            Director and the discharger is not reached within seven (7) days,
the Director shall issue to the Master Sewer Committee a notice describing the
problem and an order that the discharge be halted. The committee shall make the
final determination on implementing the order.
   C.   Revocation of Permit. The Master Sewer Committee may direct the
Director to revoke an industrial user’s wastewater discharge permit in
accordance with remedies provided in Chapter 38.
   D.   Legal Actions.
      1.   Judicial Remedies. The City Attorney may commence action for
appropriate legal and/or equitable relief in the Circuit Court of the County,
against any person that discharges sewage, industrial wastes, or other wastes
into the City’s wastewater disposal system contrary to the provisions or the
Sewer Use Ordinance, Federal or State Pretreatment Requirements, or any order
of the City.
      2.   Injunctive Relief. Whenever an industrial user has violated or
continues to violate the provisions of any Code, Ordinance, Federal or State
Pretreatment Requirements, or any order of the City, the City Attorney may
petition the Circuit Court of the County for the issuance of a preliminary or
permanent injunction or both (as may be appropriate) which restrains or compels
the activities on the part of the industrial user.
III.   Monetary Penalties and Costs.
   A.   Administrative Fines. The Director may impose fines in amounts not to
exceed Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00) per violation.
   B.   Civil Penalties. The City may fine in an amount not less than One
Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) nor more than Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000.00)
for each offense, any industrial user who is found to have violated an order of
the Director or Master Sewer Committee or who willfully or negligently failed
to comply with any provision of the Sewer Use Ordinance, and the orders, rules,
regulations and permits issued under the Ordinance. Each day on which a
violation occurs or continues is a separate and distinct offense.
   C.   Costs of Damages. The City shall recover the costs of damages to any of
the City’s wastewater facilities from any person or user causing such damages.
IV.   Criminal Prosecution. The Director may request a criminal investigation
of any person suspected of willful or negligent violations, or suspected of
knowingly falsifying information.
   A.   Violation - Generally. Any person convicted of willful or negligent
violations shall be punished by a fine of not less than One Thousand Dollars
($1,000.00) per violation per day or imprisonment for not more than six (6)
months or both. A second conviction shall be punishable by a fine of not less
than One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) per violation per day or imprisonment for
not more than two (2) years or both.
   B.   Falsifying Information. Any person convicted of knowingly making any
false statements, representation, or certification in any application, record,
report, plant, or other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to
Ordinance, or Wastewater Discharge Permit, or who falsifies, tampers with, or
knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required shall be
punished by a fine of not less than One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00) per
violation per day or imprisonment for not more than six (6) months or both. A
second conviction shall be punishable by a fine of not less than two (2) years
or both.
12.   INDUSTRIAL USER INVENTORY
The Pretreatment Coordinator will bi-annually review and update the Industrial
User Inventory list. Records from Building Permits, Sewer Tap On, New
Construction Plan Review and general observation of the collection system.
13.   Compliance Monitoring
The Industries will be monitored quarterly (2 self monitored and 2 initiated by
the Control Authority.) Also the industries are required to submit bi-annual
Self Monitoring Status Reports. The reports include Pounds per day of
discharge, Equivalent Concentration, type of sample, type of discharge and
total flows. These reports are to be signed and notarized by a Notary Public
with the State of Illinois.
Compliance reports will be reviewed by the Pretreatment Coordinator within 5
days of receipt. If a violation is noted the IU will receive a notice of
violation within 7 days of the violation being detected. Please refer to
Section 16 below for descriptions of types of noncompliance. Upon NOV the IU
will be required to immediately re-sample (using agreed upon testing facility)
and submit results to the control authority. The IU will also be required to
submit within 2 weeks of NOV a response letter to the control authority
outlining the cause of violation, remedy of violation and measures taken to
eliminate future violations. After receipt of letter within 2 weeks the control
authority will conduct an onsite inspection to confirm all necessary remedies
have been put in place. The control authority may require more frequent and
random sampling. The control authority may also require more frequent self
monitoring reports (i.e. monthly) to confirm the IU is in compliance.
14.   Confidential Information
Information and data on an industrial user obtained from reports, surveys,
wastewater discharge permit applications, wastewater discharge permits and
monitoring programs, and from city inspection and sampling activities, shall be
available to the public without restriction, unless the industrial user
specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
city, that the release of such information would divulge information, processes
or methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets under
applicable state law. When requested and demonstrated by the industrial user
furnishing a report that such information should be held confidential, the
portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes
shall not be made available for inspection by the public, but shall be made
available immediately upon request to governmental agencies for uses related to
the NPDES program or pretreatment program, and in enforcement proceedings
involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and
characteristics and other "effluent data" as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 2.302 will
not be recognized as confidential information and will be available to the
public without restriction.
(1960 Code, § 38-14-68) (Ord. 5677, passed 12-16-1996)
15.   Criteria for Proper Enforcement
When determining proper enforcement measures the Control Authority will
consider the magnitude of the violation, duration of the violation, effect of
the violation on the receiving water, effect of the violation on the POTW,
compliance history of the industrial user and good faith of the industrial
user.
16.   Types of Noncompliance and Enforcement
Unauthorized discharge (no permit)
Noncompliance Nature of violation Enforcement Response
Noncompliance             Nature of violation        Enforcement Response
                          IU unaware of requirement: Phone call
                          no harm
                          IU unaware of requirement, AO with fine
1. Unpermitted discharge  harm to POTW               Civil Action
                          Failure to comply          Civil Action
                          continues after notice by  Criminal Investigation
                          the POTW                   Terminate Service
2. Nonpermitted discharge IU has not submitted
(failure to renew)        application within 10 days Phone call
                          of due date
Discharge Limit Violation
                          Isolated, not significant  Phone call
                          Isolated, significant (no  AO to develop spill
                          harm)                      prevention plan and fine
1. Exceedance of local or Isolated, harm to POTW or  show cause order
Federal Standard (Permit  environment                civil action
Limit)                    Recurring, no harm         AO with fine
                                                     AO with fine
                          Recurring significant harm Show cause order
                                                     Civil Action
                                                     Terminate service
Monitoring and Reporting Violations
                          Report improperly signed   Phone call
                          or certified
                          Report is improperly
                          signed                     AO
                          or certified after notice  Show cause order
                          by POTW
                          Isolated, not significant  Phone call
                          (5 days late)
                          Significant (30 days or    AO to submit with fine per
                          more late)                 additional day
                          Reports are always late or AO with fine
1. Reporting Violation    no reports at all          Show cause order
                                                     Civil action
                          Failure to report spill or
                          changed discharge (no      NOV
                          harm)
                          Failure to report spill or AO with fine
                          changed discharge (results Civil Action
                          in harm)
                          Repeated failure to report Show cause order
                          spills                     Terminate service
                          Falsification              Criminal investigation
                                                     Terminate service
                          Failure to monitor
2. Failure to monitor     pollutants as required by  NOV
correctly                 permit
                          Recurring failure to       AO with fine
                          monitor                    Civil action
3. Improper sampling      Evidence of intent         Criminal Investigation
                                                     Terminate service
                          Delay of less than 30 days NOV
                          Delay of 30 days or more   AO to install with fine
4. Failure to install                                for each additional day
monitoring equipment                                 Civil action
                          Recurring violation of AO  Criminal investigation
                                                     Terminate service
                          Missed milestone by less
                          than 30 days, or will not  NOV
                          affect final milestone
                          Missed milestone by more
                          than 30 days or will       AO with fine
                          affect milestone (good
5. Compliance schedules   cause for delay)
(in permit)               Missed milestone by more   Show cause order
                          than 30 days or will       Civil Action
                          affect milestone (no good  Terminate service
                          cause for delay)
                          Recurring violation or     Civil Action
                          violation of scheduled AO  Criminal Investigation
                                                     Terminate service
Other Permit Violations
1. Wastestreams are       Initial violation          AO with fine
diluted in lieu of        Recurring                  Show cause order
treatment                                            Terminate service
2. Failure to mitigate    Does not result in harm    NOV
noncompliance or halt     Does result in harm        AO with fine
production                                           Civil action
3. Failure to properly
operate and maintain      See No. 2 above             
pretreatment facility
Violations Detected During Site Visit
                          Entry denied or consent
1. Entry denial           withdrawn                  Obtain warrant and return
                          Copies of records denied   to IU

                          No harm to POTW or         AO with fine
                          environment
2. Illegal discharge      Discharge causes harm or   Civil action
                          evidence of intent/        Criminal investigation
                          negligence
                          Recurring violation of AO  Terminate service
                          Unintentional sampling at   
                          incorrect location         NOV
                          Unintentionally using      NOV
3. Improper sampling      incorrect sample type
                          Unintentionally using       
                          incorrect sample           NOV
                          collection techniques
                          Inspector finds files       
4. Inadequate record      incomplete to missing (no  NOV
keeping                   evidence of intent)
                          Recurring                  AO with fine
5. Failure to report      Inspection finds           NOV
additional monitoring     additional files
                          Recurring                  AO with fine
 
Timeframes for Reponses
A.   All violations will be identified and documented within five days of
receiving compliance information
B.   Initial enforcement response involving contact with the industrial user
and requesting information and corrective or preventative action(s) will occur
within 15 days of violation detection.
C.   Follow up actions for continuing or reoccurring violations will be taken
within 60 days of the initial enforcement response. For all continuing
violations, the response will include a compliance schedule.
D.   Violations which threaten health, property or environment quality are
considered emergencies and will receive immediate responses such as halting the
discharge or terminating service.
E.   All violations meeting the criteria for significant noncompliance will be
addressed with and enforceable order within 30 days of the identification of
significant noncompliance.
(Ord. 8173-2018, passed 2-21-2018)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   PEDESTRIANS
      
72.   CONDITION OF VEHICLES; EQUIPMENT
      
73.   TRAFFIC RULES AND DRIVING REGULATIONS
      
74.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
75.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
76.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
77.   NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.001   Definitions
   
70.002   Classification of vehicles
   
70.003   Obedience to police
   
70.004   Scene of fire
   
70.005   Ambulances, operation of
   
70.006   Exemptions
   
70.007   Bicycle regulations
   
70.008   Skateboard regulations
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.020   Signs and signals
   
70.021   Traffic-control signal locations
   
70.022   Traffic-control signal legend
   
70.023   Flashing signals
   
70.024   Temporary signs and signals
   
70.025   Pedestrian control signals
   
70.026   Unauthorized signs
   
70.027   Interference with signs or signals
   
70.028   Advertising signs
Through, One-Way, Yield Right-of-Way Streets and Stop Intersections
   
70.040   Through streets
   
70.041   One-way streets or alleys
   
70.042   Stop streets
   
70.043   Yield right-of-way streets
   
70.044   Turns prohibited
   
70.045   No turns
   
70.046   Posting signs
   
70.047   Placement of traffic-control devices
Drivers
   
70.060   Accidents
Impoundment of Motor Vehicles
   
70.075   Redemption of vehicle
   
70.076   Department administrative tow fee waiver
 
   
70.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.001 DEFINITIONS.
   Terms used in this traffic code have the meanings respectively ascribed to
them by the Illinois Vehicle Code, being 65 ILCS 5.
(1960 Code, § 52.101) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970)
§ 70.002 CLASSIFICATION OF VEHICLES.
   For the purposes of this traffic code, motor vehicles shall be divided into
two divisions, to-wit:
   (A)   First Division: vehicles which are designed for the carrying of not
more than seven persons; and
   (B)   Second Division: those vehicles which are designed and used for
pulling or carrying freight and also vehicles designed and used for carrying
more than seven persons.
(1960 Code, § 52.101A) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970)
§ 70.003 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE.
   Members of the Police Department, special police, auxiliary police and
marshals assigned to traffic duty are hereby authorized to direct all traffic
in accordance with the provisions of this traffic code, or in emergencies as
public safety or convenience may require, and it shall be unlawful for any
person to fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order, signal or direction
of a police officer. Except in case of emergency, it shall be unlawful for any
person not authorized by law to direct or attempt to direct traffic.
(1960 Code, § 52.102) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.004 SCENE OF FIRE.
   The Fire Department officer in command, or any firefighter designated by him
or her, may exercise the powers and authority of a police officer in directing
traffic at the scene of any fire and where the Fire Department has responded to
an emergency call for so long as Fire Department equipment is on the scene in
the absence of or in assisting the police.
(1960 Code, § 52.103) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970)
§ 70.005 AMBULANCES, OPERATION OF.
   No person shall operate an ambulance, which shall include any motor vehicle
primarily designed and used for conveyance of sick or injured persons, in a
manner not conforming to a provision of the motor vehicle laws and regulations
of the state or ordinance of the city as such provision applies to motor
vehicles in general, except in compliance with the following conditions.
   (A)   The person operating the ambulance shall be either responding to a
bona fide emergency call or specifically directed by a licensed physician to
disregard traffic laws in operating the ambulance during and for the purpose of
the specific trip or journey that is involved.
   (B)   The ambulance shall be equipped with a siren producing an audible
signal of an intensity of 100 decibels at a distance of 50 feet from said
siren, and with a lamp emitting an oscillating, rotating or flashing red beam
directed in part toward the front of the vehicle and containing a power rating
of at least 100 amps.
   (C)   The aforesaid siren and lamp shall be in full operation at all times
during such trip or journey.
   (D)   Whenever the ambulance is operated at a speed in excess of 40 mph, the
ambulance shall be operated in complete compliance with every other motor
vehicle law and regulation of the state and ordinances of the city in which the
ambulance is operated, relating to the operation of motor vehicles, as such
provision applies to motor vehicles in general, except laws and regulations
pertaining to compliance with official traffic-control devices or to vehicular
operation upon the right half of the roadway.
(1960 Code, § 52.112) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.006 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code regulating the movement or parking
of vehicles shall not apply to the driver of any authorized emergency vehicle
when responding to an emergency call, but such driver when approaching shall
slow down as necessary for safety, but may proceed cautiously past a red or
stop sign or signal. At other times, drivers of authorized emergency vehicles
shall stop in obedience to a stop sign or signal.
   (B)   No driver of any authorized emergency vehicle shall assume any special
privileges, except when such vehicle is operated in response to an emergency
call or in the immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law.
   (C)   The provisions of this traffic code regulating the movement and
parking of vehicles shall not apply to persons, equipment or vehicles while
actually engaged in installing, repairing or otherwise improving streets or
street pavements.
(1960 Code, § 52.113) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.007 BICYCLE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall ride a bicycle on a street with another person on the
handlebars or in a position in front of the operator.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles shall observe all traffic signs and stop at
all stop signs and obey traffic signals and the orders of the traffic officers
and school patrols.
   (C)   No person shall ride a bicycle upon any street abreast of more than
one other person riding a bicycle.
   (D)   Every person riding a bicycle upon any street shall observe all
traffic rules and regulations applicable thereto, and shall turn only at
intersections, signal for all turns, ride at the right-hand side of the street,
pass to the left when passing overtaken vehicles and individuals that are
slower moving and pass vehicles to the right when meeting.
   (E)   No person riding a bicycle on a street shall hold on or hitch such
bicycle to any other vehicle.
   (F)   No person shall ride a bicycle at night without a light on the front
and reflector or lamp on the rear.
   (G)   No person riding a bicycle on the street shall engage in any trick
riding or weaving in and out.
   (H)   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle out of alleys and driveways,
or from behind parked cars, without stopping and looking to see that sidewalks
or streets are clear of traffic.
   (I)   No person shall ride a bicycle on a sidewalk. This section shall not
apply to city police officers on duty.
   (J)   Any person so riding a bicycle in addition to the above regulations
shall be subject to the provisions of this traffic code applicable to drivers
of vehicles, except those parts which have no application to one riding a
bicycle.
(1960 Code, § 52.114) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970; Ord. 5148, passed 11-1-
1993) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.008 SKATEBOARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Persons riding skateboards or rollerblades shall observe all traffic
signs and stop at all stop signs and obey traffic signals and the orders of the
traffic officers and school patrols.
   (B)   No person shall ride a skateboard or rollerblades upon any street
abreast of more than one other person riding a skateboard or rollerblading.
   (C)   Every person riding a skateboard or rollerblading upon any street
shall observe all traffic rules and regulations applicable thereto, and shall
turn only at intersections, and ride or skate at the right-hand side of the
street.
   (D)   No person riding a skateboard or rollerblading on a street shall hold
on or hitch such skateboard or rollerblades to any vehicle.
   (E)   No person riding a skateboard or rollerblading on the street shall
engage in any trick riding or weaving in or out.
   (F)   No person shall ride or propel a skateboard or rollerblade out of
alleys and driveways, or from behind parked cars, without stopping and looking
to see that sidewalks or streets are clear of traffic.
   (G)   No person shall ride a skateboard or rollerblade on a sidewalk in a
territory described as follows: starting from a point at the intersection of
the centerlines of North Oak Street and East “B” Street; thence westerly along
the centerline of “B” Street to its intersection with Richland Creek; thence
southwesterly along the centerline of Richland Creek to its intersection with
the centerline of West Main Street; thence easterly along the centerline of
West Main Street to its intersection with the centerline of South 6th Street;
thence southward along the centerline of South 6th Street to its intersection
with the centerline of West Lincoln Street; thence easterly along the
centerline of Lincoln Street and its easterly projection to its intersection
with the southerly projection of the centerline of South Oak Street; thence
northward along the centerline and projection of the centerline of South Oak
Street to its intersection with the centerline of East Main Street; thence
easterly along the centerline of East Main Street to its intersection with the
centerline of North Oak Street; thence northward along the centerline of North
Oak Street to its intersection with the centerline of East “B” Street; to the
point of beginning.
(1960 Code, § 52.115) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970; Ord. 5657, passed 12-2-
1997) Penalty, see §
70.999
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.020 SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
instructions of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by authority of the
corporate authorities or in accordance with the laws of the state, excepting on
direction of a police officer.
(1960 Code, § 52.104) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.021 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LOCATIONS.
   (A)   The locations described in Ch. 75, Schd. I(A), of this code of
ordinances are hereby designated traffic signal control locations.
   (B)   The locations described in Ch. 75, Schd. I(B), of this code of
ordinances are hereby designated school traffic signal control locations.
   (C)   When traffic signals or school traffic signals are erected and in
operation at any such location, the driver of a vehicle shall obey such signals
as provided in this traffic code.
   (D)   The Superintendent of Streets is hereby empowered to erect and
maintain traffic-control signals in conformity with state law at the locations
described in Ch. 75, Schd. I, of this code of ordinances.
(1960 Code, § 52.104-A) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.022 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   (A)   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
the words “go”, “caution” or “stop”, or exhibiting different colored lights
successively, the following colors only shall be used and said terms and lights
shall indicate as follows.
      (1)   Circular green or the word “go”.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through
or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits either such turn;
but vehicular traffic shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to
pedestrians lawfully within the intersection at the time such signal is
exhibited.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked crosswalk, unless directed otherwise by a
pedestrian signal.
      (2)   Steady yellow or the word “caution”.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the
red indication will be exhibited immediately thereafter or the related green
movement is being terminated, and shall stop before entering the nearest
crosswalk at the intersection, but if such stop cannot be made in safety, a
vehicle may be driven cautiously through the intersection.
         (b)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal, pedestrians
facing such signal are thereby advised that there is insufficient time to cross
the roadway, and no pedestrian shall cross, except upon a green light or go
sign.
      (3)   Steady red or the word “stop”.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering
the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at such other point as may be
indicated by a clearly visible line; if there is no such line, then vehicles
shall stop before entering such crosswalk and shall remain standing until the
green indication is shown, unless otherwise directed by a sign or arrow.
         (b)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway, shall
cross until receiving a green light or go sign or unless and until a separate
“walk” indication is shown.
      (4)   Green turn arrow (alone or with circular green, with steady yellow,
with steady red or with green straight through arrow). Vehicular traffic facing
the signal shall comply with the meaning of the circular green, steady yellow
or straight through arrow indication as if it were shown alone, except that
such vehicular traffic may cautiously enter the intersection to make the
movement indicated by the green turn arrow. Vehicular traffic shall yield
right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other traffic
lawfully using the intersection.
   (B)   In the event that an official traffic-control signal or flashing red
signal is erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the
provisions of this section or of §
70.023 of this chapter shall be applicable, except as to provisions which, by
their nature, can have no application. Any stop required shall be at a sign or
marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the
absence of any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
   (C)   In the event an official traffic-control signal or flashing red signal
is erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions
of this section shall be applicable, except as to provisions which, by their
nature, can have no application. Any stop required shall be at a sign or
marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the
absence of any such sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal.
(1960 Code, § 52.105) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.023 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used, they shall require
obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked or, if
none, then before entering the intersection and the right to proceed shall be
subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
(1960 Code, § 52.106) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.024 TEMPORARY SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   The Chief of Police is hereby empowered to have erected and maintained at
dangerous or other hazardous locations, temporary stop, slow, danger or warning
signs or signals.
(1960 Code, § 52.107) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970)
§ 70.025 PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“don’t walk” are in place, such signals shall indicate as follows.
   (A)   “Walk”. Pedestrian facing such signal may proceed across the roadway
in the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way by the
driver of all vehicles.
   (B)   “Don’t walk”. While the “don’t walk” signal is illuminated, either
steady or flashing, no pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in the
direction of the signal, but a pedestrian who has partly completed his or her
crossing during the “walk” indication shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety
island, if one is provided.
(1960 Code, § 52.108) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.026 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, light, reflector or device which
purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control
device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of
traffic, nor shall any person place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
street any other sign which hides from view or interferes with the movement of
traffic or effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any railroad sign or
signal, and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit, upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising. No tree, bush or foliage of any kind shall be so
placed, maintained, allowed to remain or displayed upon either public or
private property in such a manner as to hide from view or interfere with the
movement of traffic or the effectiveness of any traffic-control devices, sign
or signal.
   (B)   All such unauthorized devices are hereby declared to be nuisances and
may be removed by any police officer or under his or her direction and
supervision.
(1960 Code, § 52.109) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.027 INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNS OR SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, injure, move or interfere
with any official traffic sign or signal.
(1960 Code, § 52.110) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.028 ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to maintain anywhere in the city any sign,
signal, marking or device, other than a traffic sign or signal authorized by
the City Council or the state’s Department of Public Works and Buildings, which
purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control
device or railroad sign or signal, in view of any street or highway, and it
shall be unlawful to place or maintain any sign which hides from view any
lawful traffic-control device.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to maintain or operate in view of any street or
highway any flashing or rotating beacon of light.
(1960 Code, § 52.111) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
THROUGH, ONE-WAY, YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY STREETS AND STOP INTERSECTIONS
§ 70.040 THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   The streets described in Ch. 75, Schd. II(A), of this code of
ordinances are hereby designated through streets and the intersections
described in Ch. 75, Schd. II(C) and (D), of this code of ordinances are hereby
designated four-way stop and school stop intersections as described in such
schedules. The Chief of Police with the aid of the Superintendent of Streets is
hereby directed to erect and maintain stop signs in conformity with state law
at the entrances to the through streets and stop intersections described in
such schedules.
   (B)   (1)   The streets and parts of streets of the city designated by
ordinance as through streets are hereby declared to be through streets.
      (2)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop at the entrance to a through
street and shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered
the intersection or which are approaching so close on a through street as to
constitute an immediate hazard unless directed otherwise by the traffic officer
or a traffic-control signal.
(1960 Code, § 52.201) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970)
§ 70.041 ONE-WAY STREETS OR ALLEYS.
   (A)   The streets described in Ch. 75, Schd. III, of this code of ordinances
are hereby designated one-way streets.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any streets or alleys
designated as one-way streets or alleys by ordinance, in any direction other
than that so designated.
(1960 Code, § 52.202) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.042 STOP STREETS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall stop in obedience to a stop sign at an
intersection where a stop sign is erected pursuant to ordinance, at one or more
entrances thereto, and shall proceed cautiously, yielding to the vehicles not
so obliged to stop which are within the intersection or approaching so close as
to constitute an immediate hazard, unless traffic at such intersection is
controlled by a police officer on duty, in which event the directions of the
police officer shall be complied with.
(1960 Code, § 52.203) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.043 YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   (1)   The intersections described in Ch. 75, Schd. II(E), of this code
of ordinances are hereby designated yield right-of-way intersections.
      (2)   Where yield right-of-way signs are erected, the driver of a vehicle
shall be in obedience to such sign reduce the speed of his vehicle to not more
than 20 mph and shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles which have
entered the intersecting street either from the right or left or which are
approaching so closely on said intersecting street as to constitute an
immediate hazard; but said driver, having so yielded, may proceed at such time
as a safe interval occurs.
   (B)   If a driver is involved in a collision at an intersection or
interferes with the movement of other vehicles after driving past a yield
right-of-way sign, such collision shall be deemed prima facie evidence of the
driver’s failure to yield right-of-way.
(1960 Code, § 52.204) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.044 TURNS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person operating a vehicle traveling south on North Illinois Street
between “A” Street and Public Square shall turn left into 23 Public Square.
   (B)   There shall be no turns allowed on red lights at the intersections
listed in
Ch. 75, Schd. VIII(A), of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   No driver of a vehicle shall make a “U-turn” on any street or at any
intersection of any streets in the city.
(1960 Code, §52.205) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970; Ord. 4828, passed --; Ord.
5820, passed 12-1-1997; Ord. 8302, passed 2-19-2019) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.045 NO TURNS.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to turn left or right
at any place where such turns are prohibited by ordinance. Such prohibition
shall be indicated by appropriate signs.
(1960 Code, § 52.206) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.046 POSTING SIGNS.
   Appropriate signs shall be posted to show all through, stop and yield right-
of-way streets, all one-way streets and alleys and all stop intersections.
(1960 Code, § 52.207) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.047 PLACEMENT OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   When official traffic-control devices are required to be erected by this
traffic code or by law, it shall be the duty of the Chief of Police and the
Superintendent of Streets to cause suitable devices to be erected in such
areas, if not erected by State Department of Public Works and Buildings.
(1960 Code, § 52.208) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970)
DRIVERS
§ 70.060 ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle which has collided with, or been in an
accident with any vehicle, person or property in such a manner as to cause
injury to or damage shall stop immediately and render such assistance as may be
possible, and give his or her true name and residence to the injured person or
any other person requesting the same on behalf of the injured person, or the
owner of the property damaged, and to a police officer, if one is present.
   (B)   The driver of each vehicle concerned in accident involving bodily
injury or death or damage to the property of any one person in excess of $100
shall report such accident to the Police Department in writing on forms
provided for such purpose as soon after the accident as may be practicable, but
in no event less than 24 hours after such accident.
(1960 Code, § 52.702) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 70.075 REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   Before the owner or person entitled to possession of any vehicle
impounded for any traffic violation, misdemeanor criminal offense or warrant
arrest, which requires a custodial arrest, as defined by the state, a fee of
$100 per vehicle shall be payable to the city. A fee of $500, per vehicle,
shall be paid in connection with the custodial or warrant arrest of any driver
of a vehicle for any felony level offense or the following offense(s), as
defined by the state or the United States of America:
         (a)   720 ILCS 550, Cannabis Control Act;
         (b)   720 ILCS 570, Illinois Controlled Substances Act;
         (c)   720 ILCS 600, Drug Paraphernalia Control Act;
         (d)   720 ILCS 602, Ephedra Prohibition Act;
         (e)   720 ILCS 635, Hypodermic Syringes and Needles Act;
         (f)   720 ILCS 646, Methamphetamine Control and Community Protection
Act;
         (g)   720 ILCS 5/12-2(b)(4.1), Aggravated Assault on a Police Officer;
         (h)   720 ILCS 5/31-1(a), Resisting or Obstructing a Peace Officer,
Firefighter, or Correctional Employee;
         (i)   720 ILCS 5/31-4.5, Obstructing Identification;
         (j)   625 ILCS 5/11-204, Fleeing or Attempting to Elude Police
Officer;
         (k)   625 ILCS 5/11-501, Driving Under the Influence;
         (l)   625 ILCS 5/11-503, Reckless Driving;
         (m)   625 ILCS 5/11-506, Street Racing (Drag);
         (n)   625 ILCS 5/6-206.2, Violations Relating to an Ignition Interlock
Device; and
         (o)   625 ILCS 5/6-303, Driving While Driver’s License, Permit or
Privilege to Operate a Motor Vehicle is Suspended or Revoked.
      (2)   A fee of $50 per vehicle shall be paid for any vehicle impounded
for a violation of, and in accordance with, any city ordinance. Said fees shall
be paid at the Police Department prior to the release of the vehicle, and shall
reimburse the Police Department in compensation for the time and resources
spent by the Department regarding the impoundment and release of said vehicles.
The above fees are to be paid by the registered owner or person seeking the
vehicle’s release regardless of whether the owner of said vehicle or any other
authorized person was driving the vehicle at the time of the arrest and
impoundment by the Police Department. For all other vehicles towed by the
Police Department, for any reason other than the above listed offenses, a tow
release will be issued by the Police Department free of charge.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the towing or storage company in possession of
the vehicle to obtain documentation issued by the Police Department confirming
compliance with the foregoing requirements and to retain photocopies of that
documentation in its files for a period of not less than six months following
release of the vehicle. The foregoing information shall be made available to
the authorities of the city for inspection and copying, upon their request, by
the towing or storage company. The towing or storage company is prohibited from
releasing any vehicle they may tow within the city until and unless it obtains
the documentation as aforesaid.
   (C)   The towing or storage company shall be entitled to receive a fee from
the owner or person entitled to possession of any such vehicle prior to the
release of the vehicle. The fee shall be to cover the cost of removing said
vehicle and, in addition thereto, the cost of storage of said vehicle for each
day or fraction thereof that said vehicle shall have remained stored.
   (D)   The foregoing fees shall be in addition to any fee levied or assessed
against the owner or operator of said vehicle by reason of violation of any
ordinance or statute and any arrest which may have resulted from such
violation.
(1960 Code, § 52.10.1) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970; Ord. 7481, passed 4-4-
2011) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.076 DEPARTMENT ADMINISTRATIVE TOW FEE WAIVER.
   The owner or person entitled to possession of any vehicle impounded for
offenses identified in §
70.075 of this chapter may request a waiver of the assessed administrative
department fee for a bona fide financial hardship only once regardless of the
number of vehicles owned or number of times towed under the provisions of this
subchapter to the Patrol or other Division Commander. No waiver shall be
considered or granted for any “forcible felony” arrests as defined by the
state’s Criminal Code. FORCIBLE FELONY means treason, first degree murder and
second degree murder, predatory criminal sexual assault of a child, aggravated
criminal sexual assault, criminal sexual assault, robbery, burglary,
residential burglary, aggravated arson, arson, aggravated kidnapping,
kidnapping, aggravated battery resulting in great bodily harm or permanent
disability or disfigurement and any other felony which involves the use or
threat of physical force or violence against any individual. The Division
Commander shall be responsible for reviewing the waiver request and considering
all relevant information before rendering a decision. If the waiver request is
denied by the Division Commander, the owner or person entitled to possession of
the vehicle may appeal the decision to the Chief of Police. The Chief of Police
will review the request and issue a decision which shall be final.
(1960 Code, § 52.10.2) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970; Ord. 7481, passed 4-4-
2011)
§ 70.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provisions of this
traffic code shall be fined not less than $10, nor more than $500, for each
offense.
(1960 Code, § 52.901)
   (B)   Any person arrested for a violation of any provision of this traffic
code shall be released upon proper bail being furnished as required by law.
(1960 Code, § 52.902)
   (C)    The fact that an automobile which is illegally operated or parked is
registered in the name of a person shall be considered prima facie proof that
such person was in control of the automobile at the time of such violation.
(1960 Code, § 52.903)
(Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970)
CHAPTER 71: PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
71.01   Right-of-way
   
71.02   Pedestrians crossing roadway
   
71.03   Signals
   
71.04   Standing on sidewalk
   
71.05   Pedestrian crossing
   
71.06   Pedestrians walking along roadways
   
71.07   Blind pedestrians, right-of-way
   
71.08   Walking on highways
§ 71.01 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Where traffic-control signals or pedestrian control signals provided
for in §§
70.020 through
70.028 of this code of ordinances are not in place or in operation, the driver
of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping, if need
be, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway or street within any marked crosswalk
or within any unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Whenever stop signals or flashing red signals are in place at an
intersection or a marked crosswalk between intersections, the pedestrian shall
have the right-of-way over drivers of vehicles; and, at such marked places,
drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk and any
pedestrian within or entering the crosswalk at either edge of the roadway shall
have the right-of-way over any vehicle so stopped.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering any crosswalk when
any vehicle proceeding in the same direction is stopped at such crosswalk for
the purpose of permitting a pedestrian to cross.
(1960 Code, § 52.401) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.02 PEDESTRIANS CROSSING ROADWAY.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall stand or loiter in such street or roadway other
than in a safety zone.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall cross any street, except at designated and marked
crosswalks.
(1960 Code, § 52.402) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.03 SIGNALS.
   At intersections where traffic is directed by a police officer or by a stop
and go signal, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to cross the roadway
other than with released traffic, if such crossing interferes with the lawful
movement of traffic.
(1960 Code, § 52.403) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.04 STANDING ON SIDEWALK.
   It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to stand upon any sidewalk, except as
near as reasonably possible to the building line or curb line, if such standing
interferes with the use of said sidewalk by other pedestrians.
(1960 Code, § 52.404) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.05 PEDESTRIAN CROSSING.
   Every driver of a vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with
any pedestrian upon any street or roadway and shall give warning by sounding
the horn when necessary and shall exercise proper precaution upon observing any
child or any confused or incapacitated person upon a street or roadway.
(1960 Code, § 52.405) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.06 PEDESTRIANS WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of the
roadway or its shoulder facing traffic and, upon meeting a vehicle, shall step
off to the left.
   (C)   No person shall solicit a ride from a driver of any motor vehicle.
(1960 Code, § 52.406) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.07 BLIND PEDESTRIANS, RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Any blind person who is carrying in a raised or extended position a cane or
walking stick which is white in color or white tipped with red or who is being
guided by a dog, shall have the right-of-way in crossing any street or highway,
whether or not traffic on such street or highway is controlled by traffic
signals, anything in this traffic code to the contrary notwithstanding. The
driver of every vehicle approaching the place where a blind person, so carrying
such a cane or walking stick or being so guided, is crossing a street or
highway shall bring his or her vehicle to a full stop and before proceeding,
shall take such precautions as may be necessary to avoid injury to the blind
person. The provisions of this section shall not apply to a blind person who is
not carrying such a cane or walking stick or is not guided by a dog, but the
other provisions of this traffic code relating to pedestrians shall be
applicable to such person. However, the failure of a blind person to use or so
carry such a cane or walking stick or to be guided by a guide-dog when walking
on streets, highways or sidewalks, shall not be considered evidence of
contributory negligence.
(1960 Code, § 52.407) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 71.08 WALKING ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   Any person walking along and upon improved highways shall keep on the
left of the paved portion, or on the left shoulder thereof and, upon meeting a
vehicle when walking on such paved portion, shall step off to the left.
   (B)   Where sidewalks are provided, it is unlawful for any pedestrian to
walk along and upon an adjacent roadway, except at a crosswalk.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any pedestrian who is under the influence of
intoxicating liquors to be upon any street or roadway of the city.
(1960 Code, § 52.408) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
CHAPTER 72: CONDITION OF VEHICLES; EQUIPMENT
Section
   
72.01   Clear vision
   
72.02   Gas and smoke
   
72.03   Unnecessary noise
   
72.04   Driving unsafe vehicles prohibited
   
72.05   Spilling loads
   
72.06   Brakes
   
72.07   Horn
   
72.08   Lamps on vehicles owned by firefighters
   
72.09   Lights
   
72.10   Muffler
   
72.11   Width, length and height; projecting loads
   
72.12   Tires
   
72.13   Weight
   
72.14   Weight, limits on public streets
   
72.15   Motorcycles, trailers, lights required
§ 72.01 CLEAR VISION.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which is so loaded or in such a
condition that the operator does not have a clear vision of all parts of the
roadway essential to the safe operation of the vehicle.
(1960 Code, § 52.601) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 72.02 GAS AND SMOKE.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which emits dense smoke or such
an amount of smoke or fumes as to be dangerous to the health of persons or as
to endanger the drivers of other vehicles.
(1960 Code, § 52.602) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 72.03 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle which makes unusually loud or
unnecessary noise.
(1960 Code, § 52.603) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 72.04 DRIVING UNSAFE VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive or move or for the owner to cause or
knowingly permit to be driven or moved on any highway any vehicle which is in
such unsafe condition as to endanger any person or property, or which is in
violation of any provisions of this traffic code or any laws of the state.
(1960 Code, § 52.604) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 72.05 SPILLING LOADS.
   No vehicle shall be so loaded that any part of its load spills or drops on
any street or alley in the municipality.
(1960 Code, § 52.605) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 72.06 BRAKES.
   It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle upon a street unless such
vehicle is equipped with good and sufficient brakes in good working condition,
as required by the state traffic law, or to operate any vehicle which is so
loaded that the operator does not have ready access to the mechanics operating
the brakes of such vehicles.
(1960 Code, § 52.606) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 72.07 HORN.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a good and sufficient
audible signaling device in efficient working condition. Such signaling device
shall be sounded when necessary to give timely warning of the approach of a
vehicle, but such horn or other signaling device shall not be sounded for any
purpose other than as a warning of impending danger.
   (B)   No motor vehicle other than an emergency vehicle shall be equipped
with a siren or gong signaling device.
(1960 Code, § 52.607) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 72.08 LAMPS ON VEHICLES OWNED BY FIREFIGHTERS.
   Any motor vehicle owned or fully operated by a firefighter may be equipped
with not to exceed two lamps which shall emit a blue light without glare, which
lights shall only be used when actually going to a fire.
(1960 Code, § 52.608) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 72.09 LIGHTS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate or park on any street any vehicle not
equipped with adequate lights conforming to the requirements of the state law;
provided that, vehicles may be parked at nighttime without lights on any street
or portion thereof.
(1960 Code, § 52.609) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 72.10 MUFFLER.
   No motor vehicle shall be operated on any street unless such vehicle is
provided with a muffler in efficient actual working condition and the use of a
cutout is prohibited.
(1960 Code, § 52.610) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 72.11 WIDTH, LENGTH AND HEIGHT; PROJECTING LOADS.
   (A)   The maximum length and height of any vehicle and its load shall not
exceed the limits expressed in the Illinois Vehicle Code, being 65 ILCS 5.
   (B)   No First Division vehicle shall be operated on the streets with a load
extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left side of the vehicle, nor
extending more than six inches beyond the line of the fenders on the right side
thereof.
   (C)   No combination of vehicles of the Second Division coupled together
shall consist of more than two units, but such limitation shall not apply to
vehicles operated in daytime when transporting pipes, poles, machinery and
other objects which cannot be readily dismembered, nor to such vehicles
operated at nighttime by a public utility when engaged in emergency repair
work; but such load carried at night shall be clearly marked with sufficient
lights to show the full dimensions of the load.
   (D)   No part of the load of a vehicle shall extend more than three feet in
front of the extreme front portion of the vehicle.
(1960 Code, § 52.611) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 72.12 TIRES.
   It shall be unlawful to operate on any street any motor vehicle which is not
equipped with tires conforming to the requirements of the Illinois Vehicle
Code, being 65 ILCS 5.
(1960 Code, § 52.612) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 72.13 WEIGHT.
   It shall be unlawful to drive on any street any motor vehicle with a weight,
including load, in excess of that permitted by the Illinois Vehicle Code, being
65 ILCS 5, for driving on improved highways or with weight distributed in a
manner not conforming to such law, or in violation of a special weight limits
provided for by ordinance and signposted.
(1960 Code, § 52.613) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 72.14 WEIGHT LIMITS ON PUBLIC STREETS.
   No vehicle shall be operated or allowed to stand upon the streets listed in
Ch. 75, Schd. VI, of this code of ordinances if the vehicle, together with the
load thereon, weighs in excess of designated weight, except when and to the
extent necessary for the receiving or delivery of goods and materials.
(1960 Code, § 52.614) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 72.15 MOTORCYCLES, TRAILERS, LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   During the period from sunset to sunrise, or at any other time when
visibility is so limited as to require the use of lights for safety, every
motorcycle operated on any street or other public place in the city shall carry
and exhibit one lighted lamp commonly known as a driving light, and every motor
vehicle two such lighted lamps showing white lights or lights of a yellow or
amber tint, visible at least 500 feet in the direction toward which each
motorcycle or motor vehicle is proceeding, and each motor vehicle, trailer or
semi-trailer shall also exhibit at least one lighted lamp which shall be so
situated as to throw a red light visible for at least 500 feet in the reverse
direction. Every trailer having a gross weight of 3,000 pounds or less
including the weight of the trailer and maximum load shall be equipped with two
lighted lamps, one on each side of the rear of such trailer which shall be so
situated as to throw a red light visible for at least 500 feet in the reverse
direction.
(1960 Code, § 52.615) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
70.999
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC RULES AND DRIVING REGULATIONS
Section
General Rules for Driving
   
73.01   Required position and method of turning at intersection
   
73.02   Stop before emerging from alley or private driveway
   
73.03   Starting parked vehicle
   
73.04   Limitations on backing
   
73.05   Obstruction to driver’s view or driving mechanism
   
73.06   Driver’s signal; signals and turning; lamps and devices
   
73.07   Driving from alleys, driveways or garages
   
73.08   Vehicle not to be driven on sidewalks
   
73.09   Right-of-way
   
73.10   Vehicle turning left
   
73.11   Driving on right side of roadway
   
73.12   Passing and overtaking vehicles
   
73.13   One-way roadways
   
73.14   Driving on roadways laned for traffic
   
73.15   Emergency vehicles
   
73.16   Speed restrictions
   
73.17   Traffic not to be obstructed
   
73.18   Bicycles and motorcycles; toy vehicles
   
73.19   Unattended vehicles
   
73.20   Moving parked vehicle
   
73.21   Unattended animals
   
73.22   Train signals
   
73.23   Driving in or through funeral or other procession
   
73.24   Backing
   
73.25   Trucks prohibited on certain streets
   
73.26   Limited load streets
   
73.27   School buses
   
73.28   Following too closely
   
73.29   Disregarding traffic orders
   
73.30   Refusal to stop vehicle
   
73.31   Light on motor vehicles
   
73.32   Seat safety belts
   
73.33   Hospital quiet zones
Prohibited Conduct
   
73.45   Careless driving
   
73.46   Clinging to vehicles
   
73.47   Riding on running boards
   
73.48   Disobeying traffic-control devices
   
73.49   Opening door into traffic lane
   
73.50   Drag racing
   
73.51   Alcoholic liquor in motor vehicles
   
73.52   Putting glass and the like on streets
 
   
73.99   Penalty
GENERAL RULES FOR DRIVING
§ 73.01 REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTION.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows.
   (A)   Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practical to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, or as
indicated by traffic markers or signs.
   (B)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
centerline thereof and by passing to the right of such centerline where it
enters the intersection and after entering the intersection the left turn shall
be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the centerline of the
roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made in
that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the intersection,
or as indicated by traffic markers or signs.
   (C)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such
vehicle and after entering the intersection the left turn shall be made so as
to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left lane lawfully
available to traffic moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered,
or as indicated by traffic markers or signs.
   (D)   The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from a
private road or driveway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles
approaching on said highway.
(1960 Code, § 52.301) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 STOP BEFORE EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR PRIVATE DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall
stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or into the
sidewalk area extending across any alleyway or driveway, and shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
(1960 Code, § 52.301A) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 STARTING PARKED VEHICLE.
   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked unless
and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety.
(1960 Code, § 52.302) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(1960 Code, § 52.303) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 OBSTRUCTION TO DRIVER’S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM.
   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there are in
the front seat such number of persons, exceeding three, as to obstruct the view
of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere with the
driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
(1960 Code, § 52.304) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 DRIVER’S SIGNAL; SIGNALS AND TURNING; LAMPS AND DEVICES.
   (A)   Driver’s signal.
      (1)   No driver of a vehicle shall suddenly start, slow down, stop or
attempt to turn without first giving a suitable signal in such a manner as to
apprise others who might be affected by his or her action.
      (2)   No person shall turn a vehicle from a direct course upon a highway
unless and until such movement can be made with reasonable safety and then only
after giving a clearly audible signal by sounding the horn if any pedestrian
may be affected by such movement or after giving an appropriate signal in the
manner hereinafter provided in the event any other vehicle may be affected by
such movement.
      (3)   A signal or intention to turn right or left shall be given during
not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the vehicle before turning.
      (4)   The signals herein required shall be given either by means of the
hand and arm, or by a signal lamp or signal device, but when a vehicle is so
constructed or loaded that a hand and arm signal would not be visible both to
front and rear of such vehicle, then said signals must be given by such a lamp
or device.
      (5)   All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given
from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner and such signals
shall indicate as follows:
         (a)   Left turn: hand and arm extended horizontally;
         (b)   Right turn: hand and arm extended upward; and
         (c)   Stop or decrease of speed: hand and arm extended downward.
(1960 Code, § 52.305)
   (B)   Signals and turning.
      (1)   No person may turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the vehicle
is in the lane next to the direction in which the turn is to be made or turn a
vehicle to enter a private road or driveway, or otherwise turn a vehicle from a
direct course or move right or left upon a roadway unless and until such
movement can be made with reasonable safety. No person may so turn any vehicle
without giving an appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
      (2)   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required must be
given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the
vehicle before turning within a business or residence district, and such signal
must be given continuously during not less than the last 200 feet traveled by
the vehicle before turning outside a business or residence district.
      (3)   No person may stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided in this
traffic code to the driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is
opportunity to give such a signal.
      (4)   The electric turn signal device required in this traffic code must
be used to indicate an intention to turn, change lanes or start from a parallel
parking position, but must not be flashed on one side only on a parked or
disabled vehicle or flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal to operators of
other vehicles approaching from the rear.
(1960 Code, § 52.306)
   (C)   Signal lamps and signal devices.
      (1)   Every vehicle operated in the city shall be equipped with a stop
lamp or lamps on the rear of the vehicle which shall display a red light
visible from a distance of not less than 500 feet to the rear in normal
sunlight, and which shall be actuated upon application of the service (foot)
brake, and which may be, but need not be, incorporated with other rear lamps.
      (2)   Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with an electric turn signal
device which shall indicate the intention of the driver to turn to the right or
to the left in the form of flashing lights located at and showing to the front
and rear of the vehicle on the side of the vehicle toward which the turn is to
be made. The lamps showing to the front shall be mounted on the same level and
as widely spaced laterally as practicable and, when signaling, shall emit a
white or amber light, or any shade of light between white and amber. The lamps
showing to the rear shall be mounted on the same level and as widely spaced
laterally as practicable and, when signaling, shall emit a red light.
      (3)   Every trailer and semi-trailer shall be equipped with an electric
turn signal device which indicates the intention of the driver in the power
unit to turn to the right or to the left in the form of flashing red lights
located at the rear of the vehicle on the side toward which the turn is to be
made and mounted on the same level as widely spaced laterally as practicable.
      (4)   Turn signal lamps must be visible from a distance of not less than
300 feet in normal sunlight.
(1960 Code, § 52.307)
(Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.07 DRIVING FROM ALLEYS, DRIVEWAYS OR GARAGES.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or garage shall
stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk, or across a
sidewalk line projected across such alley, and shall exercise extreme care in
driving upon said sidewalk or across such lines.
(1960 Code, § 52.308) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.08 VEHICLE NOT TO BE DRIVEN ON SIDEWALKS.
   No driver of a vehicle shall drive within any sidewalk area, except at a
permanent or temporary driveway.
(1960 Code, § 52.309) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.09 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Excepting as otherwise herein provided, the driver of a vehicle approaching
an intersection shall yield the right-of-way to a vehicle which has entered the
intersection from a different highway; and when two vehicles are entering an
intersection from different highways at approximately the same time, the driver
of the vehicle on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the
right.
(1960 Code, § 52.310) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.10 VEHICLE TURNING LEFT.
   The driver of a vehicle within an intersection intending to turn to the left
shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite
direction which is within an intersection or so close thereto as to constitute
an immediate hazard, but said driver, having so yielded and having given a
signal when and as required, may make such left turn and the drivers of all
other vehicles approaching the intersection from said opposite direction shall
yield the right-of-way to the vehicle making the left turn.
(1960 Code, § 52.311) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.11 DRIVING ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon the
right half of the roadway, except as follows:
   (A)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
   (B)   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair;
   (C)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under the
rules applicable thereon;
   (D)   Upon a roadway designated and sign posted for one-way traffic; or
   (E)   Whenever there is a single track paved road on one side of the public
highway and two vehicles meet thereon, the driver on whose right is the wider
shoulder shall give the right-of-way on such pavement to the other vehicle.
(1960 Code, § 52.313) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.12 PASSING AND OVERTAKING VEHICLES.
   (A)   Passing vehicles.
      (1)   Drivers of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass
each other to the right and upon roadways having width for not more than one
line of traffic in each direction, each driver shall give to the other at least
one-half of the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
      (2)   Tractor trailer trucks are prohibited from operating on West “F”
Street between North 17th Street and North 21st Street.
(1960 Code, § 52.314)
   (B)   Overtaking vehicles. The following rules shall govern the overtaking
and passing of vehicles proceeding in the same direction, subject to these
limitations, exceptions and special rules hereinafter stated.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall
not again drive to the right side of the roadway until safety clear of
overtaken vehicle.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his or
her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
(1960 Code, § 52.315)
   (C)   Overtaking vehicles on the right.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle which is making or about to make a left turn.
      (2)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and allowing sufficient
clearance, pass another vehicle proceeding in the same direction either upon
the left or upon the right on a roadway with unobstructed pavement of
sufficient width for four or more lines of moving traffic when such movement
can be made in safety. No person shall drive off the pavement or upon the
shoulder of the roadway in overtaking or passing on the right.
      (3)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon
the right on a one-way street or on any street on which traffic is restricted
to one direction of movement where the roadway is free from obstruction and of
sufficient width for two or more lanes of moving vehicles.
(1960 Code, § 52.316)
   (D)   Limitations on overtaking on the left.
      (1)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing
to be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In
every event, the overtaking vehicle must return to the right-hand side of the
roadway before coming within 100 feet of any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction.
      (2)   No vehicle shall, in overtaking and passing another vehicle or at
any other time, be driven to the left side of the roadway under the following
conditions:
         (a)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway where the driver’s view is obstructed within sufficient distance as to
create a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction;
         (b)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any
intersection or railroad grade crossing;
         (c)   When official signs are in place directing that traffic keep to
the right, or a distinctive line also so directs traffic as declared in the
sign manual adopted by the state’s Department of Public Works and Buildings;
and
         (d)   The limitations in divisions (D)(2)(a) and (D)(2)(b) above shall
not apply upon a one-way street, or upon a street with unobstructed pavement or
sufficient width for two or more lanes of moving traffic in each direction when
such movement can be made with safety.
(1960 Code, § 52.317)
(Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970; Ord. 4792, passed - -) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.13 ONE-WAY ROADWAYS.
   Upon a roadway designated and sign posted for one-way traffic, a vehicle
shall be driven only in the direction designated.
(1960 Code, § 52.318) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.14 DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked lanes
for traffic, the following rules in addition to all others consistent herewith
shall apply.
   (A)   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practical entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
   (B)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes, a vehicle shall not
be driven in the center lane, except when overtaking and passing another
vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and such center lane is clear of
traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn or where such
centerline is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the
direction that the vehicle is proceeding and is sign-posted to give notice of
such allocation.
   (C)   Official signs may be erected directing specific traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the center of the roadway and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the directions of such signs.
(1960 Code, § 52.319) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.15 EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Fire Department vehicles; fires.
      (1)   Upon the approach of a Fire Department vehicle, drivers of vehicles
shall comply with the provision of this chapter relating to the approach of
authorized emergency vehicles.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle, other than one
on official business, to follow any fire apparatus in response to a fire alarm
closer than one block or to park any vehicle within the block where fire
apparatus has stopped to answer a fire alarm.
      (3)   It shall be further unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to drive
over an unprotected hose of the Fire Department without the consent of the Fire
Chief or the assistant in command.
(1960 Code, § 52.312)
   (B)   Operation of vehicles on approach of authorized emergency vehicles.
Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle, when the driver
is giving audible sign by siren or bell, the driver of every other vehicle
shall yield the right-of-way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel
to, and as close as possible to, the right-hand edge or curb of the highway
clear of any intersection and shall stop and remain in such position until the
authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
(1960 Code, § 52.320)
   (C)   Lights on emergency vehicles. No oscillating, rotating or flashing
lights are permitted on any motor vehicle, except as follows:
      (1)   Red oscillating, rotating or flashing lights are permitted only on:
         (a)   Local law enforcement vehicles and police vehicles of the state
or federal government;
         (b)   Vehicles of local fire departments and firefighting vehicles of
the state or federal government; and
         (c)   Vehicles which are designed as ambulances and while responding
to an emergency call for the purpose of conveying sick or injured persons.
      (2)   Amber oscillating, rotating or flashing lights are permitted only
on:
         (a)   Second Division vehicles designed for towing or hoisting
disabled vehicles while actually being used for such purposes;
         (b)   Motor vehicles or equipment of the state, local authorities and
contractors while engaged in maintenance or construction operations within the
limits of construction projects;
         (c)   Vehicles or equipment used by engineering or survey crews while
actually engaged in work on a highway;
         (d)   Vehicles of public utilities and municipal departments while
engaged in maintenance or construction operations within the limits of
construction projects;
         (e)   Oversized vehicle or load moving under permit issued by the
Department of Public Works and Buildings of the state;
         (f)   The front and rear of motorized equipment owned and operated by
the state or any political subdivision thereof, which is designed and used for
removal of snow and ice from highways; and
         (g)   Such other vehicles as may be authorized by local authorities.
      (3)   Blue oscillating, rotating or flashing lights are permitted only
on:
         (a)   The front of any motor vehicle owned by or fully operated by a
volunteer firefighter, paid firefighter, part-paid firefighter or call
firefighter while responding to a fire call; and
         (b)   Police Department vehicles in cities having a population of
500,000 or more inhabitants.
(1960 Code, § 52.354)
(Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.16 SPEED RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Speed restrictions.
      (1)   (a)   No person shall drive any vehicle upon any public street at a
speed which:
            1.   Is greater than is reasonable and proper with regard to
traffic conditions and the use of the street or endangers the safety of any
person or property; or
            2.   Is greater than the applicable maximum speed limit established
by law or ordinance.
         (b)   The fact that the speed of the vehicle does not exceed the
applicable maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to
decrease speed when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching
and going around a curve, when approaching a hill crest, when traveling upon
any narrow or winding roadway, or when special hazard exists with respect to
pedestrians or other traffic or by reason of weather or street conditions; and
speed shall be decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person
or vehicle on or entering the street in compliance with legal requirements and
the duty of all persons to use due care.
      (2)   The maximum speed limit for a vehicle of the First Division, unless
some other such limit is established is as follows.
         (a)   Outside of an urban district, the maximum is 65 mph.
         (b)   In an urban district, the maximum is 25 mph; except that, in an
alley the maximum is 15 mph.
      (3)   The maximum speed limit for a vehicle of the Second Division,
unless some other such limit is established, is as follows.
         (a)   If the vehicle is designed and used for pulling or carrying
freight and has a gross weight of 8,000 pounds or less (including the weight of
the vehicle and maximum load), and is equipped with pneumatic tires, the
maximum is 55 mph outside an urban district, 30 mph in an urban district and 15
mph in an alley; but, if such vehicle is equipped with two or more solid tires,
the maximum is ten mph at all times and in all locations.
         (b)   If the vehicle is designed and used for pulling or carrying
freight and has a gross weight of more than 8,000 pounds (including the weight
of the vehicle and maximum load), and is equipped with pneumatic tires, the
maximum is 50 mph outside of an urban district, 30 mph in an urban district and
15 mph in an alley; but, if such vehicle is equipped with two or more solid
tires, the maximum is ten mph at all times and in all locations.
         (c)   If the vehicle is designed and used for carrying more than seven
passengers, and is equipped with pneumatic tires, the maximum is 60 mph.
(1960 Code, § 52.322)
   (B)   Speed limits.
      (1)   When it has been determined upon the basis of an engineering and
traffic investigation that the prima facie speed limit of motor vehicles as
provided by statutory enactment on any street is greater than is reasonable and
safe under the conditions found to exist, the City Council may designate the
speed limit.
      (2)   Those speed limits designated in
Ch. 75, Schd. IV, of this code of ordinances for the areas stated therein are
hereby determined to be reasonable for safe travel under conditions found to be
existing in such areas.
(1960 Code, § 52.323)
   (C)   Minimum speed regulation. No person shall drive a motor vehicle at
such a slow speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of
traffic, except when reduced speed is necessary for safe operation of his or
her vehicle or in compliance with law.
(1960 Code, § 52.323-A)
   (D)   Special speed limit while passing schools.
      (1)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess of 20
mph while passing a school zone or while traveling upon any public thoroughfare
on or across which children pass going to and from school during school days
when school children are present.
      (2)   This division (D) shall not be applicable unless appropriate
official signs are posted upon streets where the school zone is located. Such
signs shall indicate the school zone and the maximum speed limit in effect
during school days when school children are present.
      (3)   Appropriate signs shall be posted to indicate this restriction.
(1960 Code, § 52.324)
      (4)   School zones.
 
100 block of West Harrison
100 block of W Lincoln
200 block of South 1st Street
Commons Parkway from North Greenmount to Autumn Harvest
 
   (E)   General speed regulation. It shall be unlawful to drive any vehicle on
any street or highway within the city under the jurisdiction of the state’s
Department of Public Works and Buildings, or of the county, at a speed
exceeding that lawfully set for such street.
(1960 Code, § 52.327)
(Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970; Ord. 9316-2024, passed 9-16-2024) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.17 TRAFFIC NOT TO BE OBSTRUCTED.
   (A)   No vehicle or train shall be operated or allowed to remain upon any
street in such a manner as to form an unreasonable obstruction to the traffic
thereon and not longer than the amount of time allowed by state statute.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall also apply to railway crossing
gates.
(1960 Code, § 52.328) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.18 BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES; TOY VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for more than one person to ride upon any bicycle
propelled by human power upon any street, or for any person to ride upon any
motorcycle other than upon a seat permanently attached to said vehicle to the
right or rear of the operator.
(1960 Code, § 52.329)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person upon skates, a coaster, sled or
other toy vehicle, to go upon any roadway other than at a crosswalk.
(1960 Code, § 52.334)
(Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.19 UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be left unattended while the motor of such vehicle is
running; and no vehicle shall be left without a driver on any hill or incline
unless the vehicle is secured against moving.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any bridge
or roadway where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic, such
officer is hereby authorized to provide for the removal of such vehicle to the
nearest garage or other place of safety.
(1960 Code, § 52.330) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.20 MOVING PARKED VEHICLE.
   No person other than a police officer, as provided in this traffic code,
shall move a vehicle into any prohibited area or away from a curb such distance
as is unlawful, or start or cause to be started the motor of any motor vehicle,
or shift, change or move the levers, brake, starting device, gears or other
mechanism of a parked motor vehicle to a position other than that in which it
was left by the owner or driver thereof, or attempt to do so.
(1960 Code, § 52.331) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.21 UNATTENDED ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful to leave any horse or other draft animal unattended in
any street without having such animal securely fastened.
(1960 Code, § 52.332) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.22 TRAIN SIGNALS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a railroad grade crossing when a
signal device gives warning of the immediate approach of a train, shall stop
within 50 feet, but not less than ten feet, from the nearest track of such
railroad and shall not proceed until he or she can do so safely.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall stop at and not traverse such grade
crossing when a crossing gate is lowered or when a flagman, or automatic signal
warns of the approach of a train.
   (C)   The driver of any motor vehicle carrying passengers for hire, or any
school bus carrying any school children, or any vehicle carrying explosives or
flammable liquid cargo shall stop such vehicle within 50 feet, but not less
than ten feet, from the nearest rail of the tracks and shall listen and look in
both directions along such track from which a train might come before
proceeding across such tracks at a grade crossing; provided that, no such stop
need be made at any such crossing where a police officers or a traffic-control
signal directs traffic to proceed.
(1960 Code, § 52.336) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.23 DRIVING IN OR THROUGH FUNERAL OR OTHER PROCESSION.
   (A)   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between vehicles comprising a
funeral or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such
vehicles are conspicuously designated as required in this traffic code.
(1960 Code, § 52.337)
   (B)   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to
the right-hand side of the roadway as close as practical and shall follow the
vehicle ahead as close as practical and safe.
(1960 Code, § 52.338)
   (C)   Funeral processions have the right-of-way at intersections when
vehicles comprising such procession have their headlights lighted, subject to
the following conditions and exceptions.
      (1)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way upon the approach of an authorized emergency vehicle giving an
audible or visible signal.
      (2)   Operators of vehicles in a funeral procession shall yield the
right-of-way when directed to do so by a traffic officer.
      (3)   The operator of the leading vehicle in a funeral procession shall
comply with stop signs and traffic-control signals but when the leading vehicle
has proceeded across an intersection in accordance with such signal or after
stopping as required by the stop sign, all vehicles in such procession may
proceed without stopping, regardless of the sign or signal and the leading
vehicle and the vehicles in procession shall proceed with due caution.
      (4)   The operator of a vehicle not in the funeral procession shall not
drive his vehicle in the funeral procession, except when authorized to do so by
a traffic officer or when such vehicle is an authorized emergency vehicle
giving audible or visible signal.
      (5)   Operators of vehicles not a part of a funeral procession may not
form a procession or convoy and have their headlights lighted for the purpose
of securing the right-of-way granted by this traffic code to funeral
processions.
      (6)   The operator of a vehicle not in a funeral procession may overtake
and pass the vehicles in such procession if such overtaking and passing can be
accomplished without causing a traffic hazard or interfering with such
procession.
      (7)   The lead vehicle in the funeral procession may be equipped with a
flashing amber light which may be used only when such vehicle is used as a lead
vehicle in such procession. Vehicles comprising a funeral procession may
utilize funeral pennants or flags or windshield stickers to identify the
individual vehicles in such a procession.
(1960 Code, § 52.339)
(Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.24 BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless movement can be made
with reasonable safety and without interference with other traffic.
(1960 Code, § 52.340) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.25 TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a truck upon any street where truck
operation is prohibited by ordinance and where such signs of prohibition are
posted; except that, a truck may be driven on such street for not more than the
minimum distance necessary for the purpose of making deliveries or picking up
loads.
(1960 Code, § 52.341) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.26 LIMITED LOAD STREETS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any street in the
city when the gross weight on the surface of the road through any axle of such
vehicle exceeds 16,000 pounds.
      (2)   Where lower limits are imposed in Ch. 75, Schd. VI, of this code of
ordinances and signs indicating such limitations are posted, it shall be
unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of such weight on such street, except
for the purpose of making delivery or picking up a load, in which case such
vehicle may be driven on such street for not more than the minimum distance
necessary for the purpose.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for person, firm or corporation to park any motor
vehicle, including a tractor or trailer having a gross weight of more than four
tons or having the width of more than seven feet upon, along or over any street
or thoroughfare within the city, except for any motor vehicle in the process of
loading or unloading, and except for any municipal vehicle owned or used by the
city in the performance of municipal functions.
(1960 Code, § 52.342) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970; Ord. 5600, passed 6-18-
1996) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.27 SCHOOL BUSES.
   The driver of a vehicle on any street or highway upon meeting or overtaking
from either direction any school bus which has stopped on the highway for the
purpose of receiving or discharging any school children shall stop the vehicle
before reaching such school bus when there is in operation on the bus a visual
signal directing that a stop be made; provided that, the driver of a vehicle
upon a street or highway of which the roadway for traffic moving in opposite
directions are separated by a strip of ground at least four feet wide which is
not surfaced or suitable for vehicle traffic, or on a controlled access highway
where pedestrians are not permitted to cross, need not stop his or her vehicle
upon meeting or passing a school bus which is on the opposite roadway.
(1960 Code, § 52.343) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.28 FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   (A)   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more
closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the street.
   (B)   The driver of any motor vehicle of the Second Division or motor
vehicle drawing another vehicle when traveling upon a street outside of a
business or residence district shall not follow within 300 feet of another
motor vehicle of the Second Division or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle.
The provisions of this division (B) shall not be construed to prevent
overtaking and passing, nor shall the same apply upon any lane specifically
designated for use by motor vehicles of the.
   (C)   Motor vehicle being driven upon any street outside of a business or
residence district in a caravan or motorcade to allow sufficient space between
each such vehicle or combination of vehicles so as to enable any other vehicle
to enter and occupy such space without danger. This provision shall not apply
to funeral processions.
(1960 Code, § 52.344) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.29 DISREGARDING TRAFFIC ORDERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully fail or refuse to comply
with any lawful order or direction of any police officer invested by law with
authority to direct, control or regulate traffic.
(1960 Code, § 52.345) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.30 REFUSAL TO STOP VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver or operator of any motor vehicle who
having been given a visual or audible signal by a police officer directing such
driver or operator to bring his or her vehicle to a stop, to willfully fail or
refuse to obey such direction, to increase his or her speed, to extinguish his
or her lights or otherwise flee or attempt to evade the police officer. The
signal given by the police officer may be by hand, voice, siren, red or blue
light.
(1960 Code, § 52.346) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.31 LIGHT ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   During the period from sunset to sunrise, or at any other time when
visibility is so limited as to require the use of lights for safety, every
motorcycle shall carry and exhibit one lighted lamp commonly known as a driving
light and every other motor vehicle two such lighted driving lamps showing
white lights, or lights of a yellow or amber tint, visible at least 500 feet in
the direction toward which each motorcycle or motor vehicle is proceeding.
Parking lamps may be used in addition to but not in lieu of any such driving
lamps. Each motor vehicle, trailer or semi-trailer shall also exhibit at least
two lighted lamps which shall be mounted on the left rear and right rear of the
vehicle so as to throw a red light visible for at least 500 feet in the reverse
direction; except that, a motorcycle need be equipped with only one such lamp.
   (B)   (1)   Either a tail lamp or a separate lamp shall be so constructed
and placed as to illuminate with a white light or rear registration plate when
required and render it clearly legible from a distance of 50 feet to the rear.
      (2)   Any tail lamp or tail lamps, together with any separate lamp or
lamps for illuminating a rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be
lighted whenever the head lamp or auxiliary driving lamps are lighted.
(1960 Code, § 52.347) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.32 SEAT SAFETY BELTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any 1961 or later model motor
vehicle of the First Division that is titled or licensed by the Secretary of
State unless the front seat of such motor vehicle is equipped with two sets of
seat safety belts.
(1960 Code, § 52.352) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.33 HOSPITAL QUIET ZONES.
   (A)   The following areas are designated as hospital quiet zones: one block
from Memorial Hospital in all directions on the following streets: North Park
Drive, Suzanne Court, Park Drive, East Park Drive, West Park Drive, Memorial
Drive.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall drive a vehicle at a speed greater than 15 mph
in the above hospital zone.
      (2)   No person shall operate a vehicle which makes unusually loud or
unnecessary noise in the above established hospital zones.
      (3)   Appropriate signs shall be placed in the above zones indicating
these restrictions.
(1960 Code, § 52.325) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970; Ord. 8955-2021, passed 6-
21-2021) Penalty, see §
73.99
PROHIBITED CONDUCT
§ 73.45 CARELESS DRIVING.
   (A)   Reckless, negligent or careless driving. Any person who drives any
vehicle with a willful or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or
property is guilty of reckless driving.
   (B)   Intentional vehicular damage to private property. Any person who
drives any vehicle with an intentional disregard for the safety of the property
of another and causes damage to the property of another is guilty of
intentional vehicular damage to private property.
(1960 Code, § 52.321) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970; Ord. 3475, passed 1-30-
1978; Ord. 4151, passed 3-4-1985) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.46 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person on any street riding a bicycle,
motorcycle, sled or any toy vehicle to cling to or attach himself or herself or
his or her vehicle to any moving vehicle or wagon.
(1960 Code, § 52.333) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.47 RIDING ON RUNNING BOARDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride upon the fenders, running board,
bumpers, top or outside step of any vehicle.
(1960 Code, § 52.335) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.48 DISOBEYING TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   No driver of a vehicle shall disobey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device unless at the time otherwise directed by a police
officer.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave the roadway and travel
across private property to avoid a traffic-control device.
(1960 Code, § 52.348) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.49 OPENING DOOR INTO TRAFFIC LANE.
   It shall be unlawful to open any door of a motor vehicle on the side
available to moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so and
can be done without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall
any person leave a door open on the side of a motor vehicle available to moving
traffic for a period of time longer than necessary to load or unload
passengers.
(1960 Code, § 52.349) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.50 DRAG RACING.
   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any motor vehicle to participate in
drag racing. DRAG RACING means the act of two or more individuals competing or
racing on any street or highway in the city in a situation in which one of the
motor vehicles is beside or to the rear of a motor vehicle operated by a
competing driver and the one driver attempts to prevent the competing driver
from passing or overtaking him or her, either by acceleration or maneuver, or
one or more individuals competing in a race against time on any street or
highway in the city.
(1960 Code, § 52.350) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.51 ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport, carry, possess or have any
alcoholic liquor in, upon or about any motor vehicle, except in the original
package and with the seal unbroken.
(1960 Code, § 52.351) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.52 PUTTING GLASS AND THE LIKE ON STREETS.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit upon any street any glass bottle,
glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans or any other substance likely to injure any
person, animal or vehicle upon such street.
   (B)   Any person who drops, or permits to be dropped or thrown, upon any
street any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the same
or cause it to be removed, nor shall any person deposit or allow to be
deposited dirt and/or mud upon any street.
   (C)   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a street shall
remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the street from such
vehicle.
(1960 Code, § 52.353) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970; Ord. 4437, passed 8-17-
1987) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.999 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Every person convicted of intentional vehicular damage to private
property, per §
73.45 of this chapter, shall be fined not less than $200, nor more than $500.
(1960 Code, § 52.321) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970; Ord. 3475, passed 1-30-
1978; Ord. 4151, passed 3-4-1985)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
74.01   Parking restrictions
   
74.02   No parking rules
   
74.03   Street cleaning
   
74.04   Towing vehicles
   
74.05   Time limit parking
   
74.06   Parking at curb
   
74.07   Vehicles for sale or lease and peddling from a vehicle
   
74.08   Loading zones
   
74.09   Bus stops and terminals
   
74.10   Taxicab stands
   
74.11   Cab stands, bus stands
   
74.12   Alleys
   
74.13   Parking motor vehicles on private property
   
74.14   Parking prohibited at times on certain streets
   
74.15   Limited parking
   
74.16   Signs; notice
   
74.17   Commercial trucks
   
74.18   Persons with disabilities parking
Parking at Meters and in Other Designated Spaces
   
74.30   Parking generally
   
74.31   Marking places
   
74.32   Issuance of parking permits
   
74.33   Tampering with meters
   
74.34   Parking without paying
   
74.35   Parking prohibited during a snow emergency
   
74.36   Parking of recreational vehicles
   
74.37   Employee parking on parking lot A
   
74.38   Appeal parking citation
 
   
74.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 74.01 PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   The parking restrictions set forth in this chapter apply whether such areas
are posted with signs or not; but, if official signs or markings are located in
such areas, the instructions of the signs and markings shall take precedence
over the terms of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 52.501) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970)
§ 74.02 NO PARKING RULES.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to stand at any time in any of
the following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic-
control device:
   (A)   In any intersection;
   (B)   In a crosswalk;
   (C)   Upon a bridge, viaduct, in any subway or tunnel or the approach
thereto;
   (D)   Within 30 feet of traffic signal, beacon or sign on the approach side;
   (E)   Within 20 feet of any intersection or crosswalk;
   (F)   Any place reducing roadway to usable width of less than 18 feet;
   (G)   Within 15 feet of fire hydrant;
   (H)   Within six feet of a driveway;
   (I)   Within 50 feet of nearest rail or railroad crossing grade;
   (J)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any Fire Department station
and on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any such station within
75 feet of such entrance, when properly signposted or where curb is painted
yellow; except that, parking shall be permitted within 25 feet of fire house on
the east side of 12th Street;
   (K)   On sidewalk or parkway;
   (L)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking or where the curb
is painted yellow;
   (M)   Fire lane;
   (N)   At any city-owned premises, in Residential Districts including Multi-
Family Districts, unless permitted by ordinance; and
   (O)   Within 25 feet in either direction of the Police Department’s speed
monitor trailer.
   (P)   On any roadway prohibited by order of the Chief of Police.
(1960 Code, § 52.502) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970; Ord. 3029, passed 9-7-1971;
Ord. 3049, passed 1-7-1972; Ord. 3344, passed 3-15-1976; Ord. 8863-2020, passed
8-17-2020; Ord. 9042-2022, passed 5-2-2022) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.03 STREET CLEANING.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any public street or portion
thereof in the city at any time when such street is being cleaned or snow
removed. Signs indicating such cleaning or snow removal shall be posted before
such work is done.
(1960 Code, § 52.503) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.04 TOWING VEHICLES.
   The Police Department and all members thereof are hereby authorized to have
removed and towed away any car or other vehicle parked, or any vehicle or
trailer for hauling items including boats, lawn equipment, campers and the
like, which has been parked in the same vicinity on any public street or other
public place for a period of 72 consecutive hours and any vehicle parked on a
roadway that is prohibited by order of the Chief of Police. Cars or trailers
and the like so towed away shall be stored on any city property or in a public
garage or parking lot and shall be restored to the owner or operator thereof
after payment of the expense incurred by the city in removing or storing such
vehicles.
(1960 Code, § 52.504) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970; Ord. 6685, passed 10-18-
2004; Ord. 9042-2022, passed 5-2-2022) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.05 TIME LIMIT PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle for a period of time in excess of
the amount of time designated by ordinance and so posted.
(1960 Code, § 52.505) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.06 PARKING AT CURB.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be parked with the left side of such vehicle next to
the curb, except on one-way streets, and it shall be unlawful to stand or park
any vehicle in a street other than parallel with the curb and with the two
right wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the regularly established curb
line; except that, upon those streets that have been marked for angle parking,
vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the curb indicated by such marks.
   (B)   See exceptions to this regulation in Ch. 76, Schd. VIII.
(1960 Code, § 52.506) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970; Ord. 6385, passed 2-18-
2002) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.07 VEHICLES FOR SALE OR LEASE AND PEDDLING FROM A VEHICLE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street for the
purpose of displaying it for sale or lease, or to park any vehicle upon any
street from which vehicle merchandise is peddled or sold.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, partnership, corporation
or any other legal entity in the business of selling, leasing or renting
automobiles, trucks or other motor vehicles, to allow any automobile, truck or
other motor vehicles owned or possessed by them to be parked on any street in
front of, to the rear of, or adjacent to their place of business for a period
of time longer than 30 minutes.
(1960 Code, § 52.507) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970; Ord. 3179, passed 11-30-
1973) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.08 LOADING ZONES.
   When signs are erected or the area otherwise marked giving notice thereof,
the following areas are designated loading zones in Ch. 76, Schd. IV, of this
code of ordinances and no person shall park a vehicle on such loading zones,
except for loading or unloading merchandise or material.
(1960 Code, § 52.508) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970; Ord. 3344, passed 3-15-
1976) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.09 BUS STOPS AND TERMINALS.
   (A)   The following areas are hereby designated as bus stops or bus
terminals: North Illinois Street, west side, from the south curb line of W. “C”
Street to a point 70 feet south of the curb line.
   (B)   No person other than a bus driver of a bus line designated shall park
in any bus zone or bus terminal; except that, a taxicab driver may stop on the
north side of Main Street, east of the Public Square when there is no
interference with a bus.
   (C)   Whenever it shall be determined by the City Council to be in the best
interest of public safety to establish loading and unloading area for school
buses, or any other vehicles transporting students to the local schools or
other special education classes, such regulations and restrictions may be
imposed on such areas relating to parking and traffic regulation as may be
deemed necessary by the City Council.
The following areas are designated as loading zones for school buses or other
vehicles transporting students: South 23rd Street, west side, from 107 S. 23rd
Street, 190 feet south.
(1960 Code, § 52.509) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970; Ord. 3302, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.10 TAXICAB STANDS.
   The following areas are designated open taxicab stands.
   (A)   All open taxicab stands are for the convenience of the general public
and are reserved exclusively for the use of taxicabs having a certificate of
convenience and necessity from the city. No person shall park any vehicle other
than a taxicab in any open taxicab stand.
   (B)   Taxicabs shall be parked in the taxicab stands by heading them
directly toward the curb at right angles with the curb.
   (C)   Signs designating taxicab stands shall be erected at the expense of
the taxicab company.
(1960 Code, § 52.510) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.11 CAB STANDS, BUS STANDS.
   No vehicle other than a licensed taxicab shall be parked in any area
designated by ordinance as a cab stand; and no vehicle other than a bus shall
be parked in a place so designated as a bus loading zone.
(1960 Code, § 52.511) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.12 ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley, except for the purpose of
loading and unloading merchandise and then in such a manner or under such
conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the roadway
for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to block the driveway
entrance to any abutting property.
(1960 Code, § 52.512) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.13 PARKING MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle on any private property
without the consent of the owner of the property.
(1960 Code, § 52.513) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.14 PARKING PROHIBITED AT TIMES ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected or the area otherwise marked giving notice thereof,
no person shall park a vehicle at any time upon any of the streets or parts of
streets described in Ch. 76, Schd. I, of this code of ordinances.
(1960 Code, § 52.514) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970; Ord. 3344, passed 3-15-
1976) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.15 LIMITED PARKING.
   When signs are erected or the area otherwise marked giving notice thereof,
no person shall park a vehicle upon any of the streets described in Ch. 76,
Schd. II, of this code of ordinances, at the times or for a longer time than
that set forth in the Schedules.
(1960 Code, § 52.515) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970; Ord. 3344, passed 3-15-
1976) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.16 SIGNS; NOTICE.
   Appropriate notice by way of signs or other markings shall be given in all
areas where parking is limited or prohibited indicating such limitations or
prohibitions.
(1960 Code, § 52.516) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970; Ord. 3344, passed 3-15-
1976)
§ 74.17 COMMERCIAL TRUCKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a commercial truck having
a gross weight of more than four tons within 500 feet of any residence in the
city for longer than 30 minutes, except as for the purpose of loading or
unloading.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to park any
motor vehicle having a gross weight of more than four tons or having a width of
more than seven feet or a motor vehicle with the rate capacity of one ton or
more, or a motor vehicle with a length of over 20 feet upon, along or over any
street or thoroughfare within the city, except for any motor vehicle in the
process of loading or unloading and except for any municipal vehicle owned or
used by the city in the performance of municipal functions.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to run any motor, refrigeration compressor or any
other type of mechanical device or any engine within 500 feet of an occupied
residential structure during the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. the following
day. Such motor, refrigeration compressor or any other type of mechanical
device or any engine may not be connected to electricity, water, gas or
sanitary sewer facilities, and at no time shall this equipment be used for
living or housekeeping purposes.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful, in a predominantly residential area, for any
semi-truck or semi-trailer to be stored in any off-street parking area except
when loading or unloading, or unless in an approved loading or unloading area,
or in a motel-hotel lot when its owner or driver is registered as a guest.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful, in a predominantly residential area, to park any
trucks, trailers and motor vehicles having a gross weight in excess of four
tons which is designed, manufactured or used predominantly for commercial
purposes in any residential district, except for the process of loading or
unloading.
   (F)   Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, trucks, trailers
and motor vehicles designed, manufactured or used predominantly for commercial
purposes, including, but not limited to, wreckers, dump trucks, tracked
vehicles, buses, construction vehicles, septic tank trucks, equipment vehicles
and carriers, bottling works, delivery trucks, grain trucks and refrigerated
trucks, are prohibited from parking on public streets in residential districts
unless they are loading, unloading or are being used for the purpose for which
it was built.
(1960 Code, § 52.517) (Ord. 5833, passed 1-20-1998; Ord. 5717, passed 3-17-
1997) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.18 PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall park a car in a parking zone set forth in Ch. 76,
Schd. VII, of this code of ordinances below unless they have a persons with
disabilities parking sticker issued pursuant to 625 ILCS.
(1960 Code, § 52.218)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle which is not
bearing registration plates or decals issued to a persons with disabilities, as
defined in 625 ILCS 5/1-159.1, pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/3-616 or 625 ILCS 5/11-
1301.2, or to a disabled veteran pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/3-609, as evidence that
the vehicle is operated by, or for a persons with disabilities, or a disabled
veteran, in any parking place, including any private or public off-street
parking facility specifically reserved for motor vehicles bearing such
registration plates or decals.
      (2)   The parking privileges for motor vehicles bearing registration
plates or decals issued to a persons with disabilities or a disabled veteran
shall also include motor vehicles registered in another jurisdiction upon which
is displayed a registration plate, special decal or device issued by another
jurisdiction designating the vehicle as operated by, or for a persons with
disabilities.
      (3)   The police may remove or cause to be removed to the nearest garage
or other place of safety any vehicle parked within a stall or space reserved
for use by persons with disabilities or disabled veterans, which does not
display disabled registration plates or a special decal or device as required
under this division (B)(3).
(1960 Code, § 52.518)
(Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970; Ord. 4802, passed - -; Ord. 5726, passed 4-7-
1997) Penalty, see §
74.99
PARKING AT METERS AND IN OTHER DESIGNATED SPACES
§ 74.30 PARKING GENERALLY.
   (A)   Chief of Police’s authority. The Chief of Police, at the direction of
the Mayor, is hereby authorized and directed to promulgate rules and
regulations for on-street parking and for off-street parking in city-owned
lots. Further, he or she shall issue orders for signage and for painting of
lines denoting regulations for parking and for no parking. Rules, regulations
and directions shall be in accordance with state law and the Federal Manual for
Uniform Traffic-Control Devices (MUTCD).
   (B)   Parking meters and other parking spaces. The Chief of Police, at the
direction of the Mayor, is directed to cause parking meters to be installed and
parking spaces, along with where parking is not permitted, to be designated
upon such streets and in off-street areas of the city as he or she shall
select. From time to time, he or she may add to, change or abandon parking
meters and areas. In making changes to parking designations, he or she shall be
guided and governed by location, amount of traffic, the demand for parking
spaces, the congestion of traffic, the use of the street and other pertinent
conditions and demands.
   (C)   Maintenance. The Chief of Police, at the direction of the Mayor, shall
maintain parking meters in good workable condition. He or she further is
authorized to enter into contracts for such parts and maintenance of parking
meters as may be necessary to maintain the same in good operating condition and
to pay for such parts and maintenance from the General Fund with advice and
guidance from the city’s Finance Director. All receipts, funds and revenues
from the operation of the parking meters shall be deposited into the city’s
General Fund.
   (D)   Installation and operation. Parking meters shall be placed immediately
adjacent to the individual parking spaces. Each parking meter shall be placed
or set in such a manner as to show or display a signal that the parking space
adjacent to such meter is or is not legally in use. Each parking meter shall be
installed and set to display, upon the deposit of a $0.25 coin of the United
States, a signal indicating legal parking for a period of time allowed for such
respective amount, and shall continue to operate from the time allotted for
such respective coin or coins. Each meter also shall be so arranged that, upon
the expiration of the allotted time, it will signal that the lawful parking
period has expired.
   (E)   Parking spaces. The Chief of Police shall have lines or markings
painted or placed adjacent to each parking meter for the purpose of designating
the parking space for which the meter is to be used, and each vehicle parked
alongside of or next to any parking meter shall park within the lines or
markings so established.
   (F)   Parking position. When a parking space is parallel with the adjacent
curb or sidewalk, any vehicle parked in such parking space shall be parked so
that the foremost part of such vehicle shall be alongside of and next to the
parking meter. When a parking space is diagonal to the curb or sidewalk, any
vehicle parked in such parking space shall be parked with the foremost part of
such vehicle directed at and next to such meter.
   (G)   Operation of meter. When any vehicle enters a metered parking space,
the operator of said vehicle shall immediately deposit in such parking meter a
$0.25 or coins of the United States, and at once shall put the meter into
operation; the parking space may then be lawfully occupied by the vehicle
during the period of time which has been prescribed for the amount so
deposited. If the vehicle remains parked in any such parking space beyond the
parking time limit allotted for the coin or coins inserted in the meter, the
parking meter shall display a sign or signal showing illegal parking, and in
that event such vehicle shall be considered as parked overtime and beyond the
period of legal parking time and in violation of this section.
   (H)   Parking time. The insertion of coins of the United States as herein
provided into any parking meter shall allow the occupancy by a vehicle of the
parking space in conjunction therewith up to the limit of parking time which
has been prescribed for the part of the street in which parking space is
located and the parking meter shall be so set or adjusted that it shall
indicate the elapsing of said time.
   (I)   Disposition of receipts. The coins to be deposited in parking meters
are levied and assessed as fees to cover the cost of the supervision,
inspections, installation, operation, maintenance, control and use of the
parking meters and also the cost of supervising and regulating the parking of
vehicles in the parking meter zones created hereby.
   (J)   Parking beyond metered time period. It shall be unlawful for any
person or operator to cause, allow, permit or suffer any vehicle to be parked
overtime or beyond the period for which the coin or coins he or she has
inserted in the parking meter entitles the vehicle to occupy said parking
space. It shall be unlawful for any person or operator to permit a vehicle to
remain in any parking space adjacent to any parking meter while the meter is
displaying a signal indicating that the vehicle occupying parking space has
already been parked beyond the period for which the coin inserted in the meter
entitled it to remain in the parking space.
   (K)   Ticketing violations. Any law enforcement officer of the city’s Police
Department shall be authorized to affix to vehicles parked n violation of any
of the provisions of this section a “parking violation notice” that such
vehicle has been so illegally parked and instruct the operator to report to the
Police Department in regard to such violation. Each such person may, within
five business days of the time when such notice was attached to such vehicle,
pay as the penalty for and in full satisfaction of such violation the sum which
is printed on the parking violation notice (parking ticket). The penalty for
non-payment after five business days shall be at a rate of double the
applicable rate for each violation as indicated on the face of the “parking
violation notice” affixed to the vehicle by a law enforcement officer. Five
business days shall be defined as Monday through Friday from 8:00 a.m. until 5:
00 p.m., excluding legal holidays.
   (L)   Hours of operation. The parking meters shall control parking only
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., on Mondays through Fridays,
except legal holidays. When parking meters are not controlling parking as this
section provides, vehicles may be parked without inserting any coin or coins in
the meter, but the parking line adjacent to the meters shall be adhered to in
such parking in the same manner as is required during other times.
   (M)   Off-street parking. No person shall park a vehicle adjacent to any
parking meter or in any gated lot in any of the off-street municipal parking
lots at any time for a period in excess of the time provided via the posted
signage.
   (N)   Parking in designated spaces. When parking meters are controlling
parking in any lot, block or street, it shall be illegal to park except at a
meter. When there are no meters, but parking spaces are denoted by lines and/or
signage, it shall be illegal to park, except as so specified.
   (O)   Penalty. It shall be illegal to park beyond the time limit indicated
on the dial of each parking meter or by the signage. Police officers are
authorized to mark tires of any vehicle parked at a meter or in a designated
space. Any vehicle found to be over the time limit at that meter or in the
space after having been so marked shall be issued a ticket. The amount of the
fee to be assessed for the various violations hereunder shall be as set forth
on the parking violation notice.
(1960 Code, § 52.801) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970; Ord. 7483, passed 4-18-
2011) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.31 MARKING PLACES.
   Suitable markings shall be painted or placed upon the curb or street
adjacent to each parking meter for the purpose of designating the parking space
and the angle at which vehicles are parked to the curb. Each vehicle parking
within any parking meter zone shall park within the line or markings so
established. It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle across any such line or
marking or to park said vehicle in such a position that the same shall not be
entirely within the area designated by such line or markings.
(1960 Code, § 52.803) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970; Ord. 7483, passed 4-18-
2011) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.32 ISSUANCE OF PARKING PERMITS.
   The Chief of Police shall be authorized to issue permits at the cost of $144
per year or $12 per month to allow parking at ten-hour meters on the street and
in parking lots, excluding both City Hall lots: “A” and North Second Street;
and “A” and Jackson Street. When the person has so purchased and so displayed
the permit, he or she shall not have to place any coins in said parking meters.
(1960 Code, § 52.804) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970; Ord. 7483, passed 4-18-
2011)
§ 74.33 TAMPERING WITH METERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the Mayor or Chief of
Police to deface, injure, tamper with, open or willfully break, destroy or
impair the usefulness of any parking meter installed under the provisions of
this chapter. It shall be unlawful to deposit any slug, device or metallic or
other substitute for a coin in any parking meter.
(1960 Code, § 52.805) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970; Ord. 7483, passed 4-18-
2011) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.34 PARKING WITHOUT PAYING.
   It shall be unlawful to park in any municipal parking lot, where a fee is
required, without paying such fee. It shall also be unlawful to operate,
without paying, or attempt to operate without paying, any mechanical device,
such as a gate, which controls traffic either entering or leaving a municipal
parking lot.
(1960 Code, § 52.806) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970; Ord. 7483, passed 4-18-
2011)
§ 74.35 PARKING PROHIBITED DURING A SNOW EMERGENCY.
   An emergency is automatically declared to exist within the city whenever
there is an accumulation of snow and ice of two inches or more; at which time a
parking prohibition shall automatically become effective throughout the city in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, or allow any parked or
unattended vehicle, or any vehicle to remain on any designated snow route set
forth in Ch. 75, Schd. VII, of this code of ordinances until the streets have
been cleared of snow.
   (B)   A vehicle that is parked and/or unattended when there is an
accumulation of snow or ice of two inches or more shall be prima facie evidence
of violation of this section by the person in whose name said vehicle is
registered.
   (C)   Officers of the Police Department are hereby authorized to ticket,
pursuant to this section, any vehicle parked and/or unattended in violation of
this section, and if the Superintendent of Streets or Chief of Police deems it
necessary to effectuate snow removal operations, they shall have the vehicle
removed.
   (D)   When the parking prohibition of this section becomes effective upon
the occurrence of certain weather conditions, it shall take precedence over
provisions of law normally in effect; except that, it shall not take precedence
over provisions of law relating to traffic accidents, emergency travel of
authorized emergency vehicles, or emergency vehicles, or emergency traffic
direction by a police officer.
(1960 Code, § 52.808) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970; Ord. 7483, passed 4-18-
2011) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.36 PARKING OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      OVERNIGHT PARKING. Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m.
      RECREATION VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle or trailer designed and used as a
travel trailer, camper, motor home, tent, trailer, boat, boat trailer,
snowmobile, snowmobile trailer, camping trailer or for any other similar
purpose.
      YARD, FRONT. A yard which is bounded by the sides of the residence, front
lot line, and the front of the residence.
      YARD, SIDE. A yard which is bounded by the rear of the residence, front
of the residence and side lot line.
      YARD, REAR. A yard which is bounded by the sides of the residence, rear
lot line and the rear of the residence.
   (B)   Storage. In an area zoned for single-family residential purposes, a
recreational vehicle may be stored in a garage. Storage outside of the garage,
in the front yard or side yard of a residence, shall only be allowed in the
driveway and the vehicle must be stored ten feet from the curb line. Outside
storage shall also be allowed in the rear yard if the rear yard is not adjacent
to a street. Outside storage shall not be allowed in the side yard. No
recreational vehicle shall be used for living, sleeping or housekeeping in a
single-family residential zoning district, except for the temporary sleeping of
guests or residents not to exceed seven nights in a 30-day period.
   (C)   Parking on the street. It shall be unlawful to park any recreational
vehicle on a city street unless it is connected to a motor vehicle and for the
purpose of loading and unloading of personal property for a period not to
exceed 48 hours.
   (D)   Overnight parking. Overnight parking on city-owned property is
prohibited, including but not limited to city parks.
   (E)   Commercial parking. No recreational vehicle shall be used for living,
sleeping or housekeeping in a commercial zoning district, except for the
temporary sleeping of guests or residents not to exceed seven nights in a 30-
day period.
   (F)   Sewage. Recreational vehicles parked or stored in the city shall have
a fully-enclosed sanitary system within the recreational vehicle and shall not
have fixed connections to sanitary sewer facilities.
   (G)   Tents. Tent camping is prohibited within a commercial zoning district.
   (H)   Towing a vehicle. If the owner of a recreational vehicle is violating
this section and fails to move said recreational vehicle after seven days from
the issuance of a notice from the Police Department, said vehicle shall be
subject to removal and towing by an authorized tow service. The said
recreational vehicle shall be stored by the tow service in a secure area until
all penalties, fines and storage costs permitted by state statute or city
ordinance have been satisfied by payment.
   (I)   Vehicle registration. All recreational vehicles that are permitted to
be parked under this chapter must have current registration, title and
insurance.
(1960 Code, § 52.809) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970; Ord. 7483, passed 4-18-
2011; Ord. 8968-2021, passed 7-19-2021) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.37 EMPLOYEE PARKING ON PARKING LOT A.
   Parking Lot A is a free parking lot. It is bordered by North High, North
Jackson and East “A” Streets. Parking in Lot A shall be restricted to members
of the general public who are there to conduct business and/or to visit the
area of “downtown”. Individuals who work in the downtown area are prohibited
from parking in Lot A Monday through Friday between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and
5:00 p.m. Any person issued a “parking violation notice” (parking ticket) for
violating this section shall pay as the penalty for full satisfaction of such
violation the sum which is printed on the parking violation notice (parking
ticket). The penalty for non-payment after five business days shall be at a
rate of double the applicable rate for each violation as indicated on the face
of the “parking violation notice” affixed to the vehicle by a law enforcement
officer. Five business days shall be defined as Monday through Friday from 8:00
a.m. until 5:00 p.m., excluding legal holidays.
(1960 Code, § 52.810) (Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970; Ord. 7483, passed 4-18-
2011) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.38 APPEAL PARKING CITATION.
   (A)   Any person contesting a parking citation issued under this chapter may
request an administrative hearing within ten days of the citation being issued.
The request must be in writing and delivered or mailed to the Office of the
Chief of Police. The Chief of Police or his/her designee may dismiss the
citation, return any fines or penalties paid after an informal review of the
matter or forward the citation to the Traffic Committee for a formal hearing.
   (B)   An appeal under this section shall constitute a stay of penalties
until a final decision has been rendered.
   (C)   The administrative hearing shall be held according to the following
requirements:
      (1)   The administrative hearing body shall be the aldermanic Traffic
Committee.
      (2)   Formal or technical rules of evidence shall not apply.
      (3)   The Traffic Committee shall be empowered to administer oaths and to
secure by subpoena both the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the
production of relevant reports, documents or other papers.
      (4)   Persons appearing at a hearing may be represented by counsel at
their expense.
      (5)   At the conclusion of the administrative hearing, the Traffic
Committee shall issue a written decision either sustaining or overruling the
parking citation.
      (6)   All final decisions of the administrative hearing officer shall be
subject to review under the provisions of the Administrative Review Law.
(Ord. 8208-2018, passed 6-18-2018) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person accused of a violation of an ordinance prohibiting
parking of a vehicle may settle the claim against them for such illegal parking
by paying the sum as indicated on the face of the “parking violation notice”
(parking ticket) affixed to the vehicle by a law enforcement officer, provided
that if such violation is paid within five business days from the date of the
violation. Any violation(s) not settled after five business days shall be
deemed to be in “default”. The penalty for non-payment after five business days
shall be at a rate of double the applicable rate for each violation as
indicated on the face of the “parking violation notice” (parking ticket)
affixed to the vehicle by a law enforcement officer. Five business days shall
be defined as Monday through Friday from 8:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m., excluding
legal holidays; provided further that, the above penalties shall constitute
minimum fines for violations enumerated and shall not prohibit any court of law
from assessing a fine up to $500 for said violation.
      (2)   If, after the expiration of the said five business day period
herein designated, the Chief of Police notifies the person accused of the said
violation, and said person fails to make payment as requested, and the vehicle
owned by said person is found to be illegally parked while payment is still due
and owing as a result of said pending violation(s), then the Chief of Police
shall be authorized to remove and tow away or have removed and towed away by a
commercial towing service, said illegally parked vehicle. Vehicles so towed
away for illegal parking shall be stored in a safe place and shall be restored
to the owner of such vehicle and upon the payment of Police Department tow
release fees; reasonable charges for such removal and storage by the owner or
operator of any such vehicle and the payment of all penalties due under this
section.
(1960 Code, § 52.806)
   (B)   (1)   Any person found guilty of wrongfully parking in a persons with
disabilities parking space, per §
74.18(A) of this chapter, shall be fined not less than $250, nor more than
$500, and shall pay any costs and charges connected with the removal or storage
of the motor vehicle.
(1960 Code, § 52.219)
      (2)   Any person found guilty of wrongfully parking in a persons with
disabilities parking space, per §
74.18(B), shall be fined $100, in addition to any costs or charges connected
with the removal or storage of the motor vehicle.
(1960 Code, § 52.218)
   (C)   The penalty for violating §
74.35 of this chapter shall be $50 per violation and, if it becomes necessary
for the Police to have a vehicle removed and relocated, the violator shall not
be deemed to have complied with §
74.35 of this chapter and shall remain liable for the fine provided, Police
Department tow release fees, plus all costs resulting from the removal,
relocation and storage of said vehicle.
(1960 Code, § 52.808)
(Ord. 2928, passed 1-20-1970; Ord. 4802, passed - -; Ord. 5726, passed 4-7-
1997; Ord. 6945, passed 1-2-2007; Ord. 7483, passed 4-18-2011)
CHAPTER 75: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Traffic-control signal locations
   
II.   Through streets, stop and yield intersections
   
III.   One-way streets and alleys
   
IV.   Specific speed limits
   
V.   Prohibited truck routes
   
VI.   Load limits
   
VII.   Designated snow routes
   
VIII.   Turning movements
SCHEDULE I. TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LOCATIONS.
   (A)   General. In accordance with §
70.021 of this traffic code, the following locations are designated traffic
signal control locations:
Street Location
Street         Location
3rd Street     At W. Main Street (D)
74th Street    At Foley Drive (A)
E. Main Street At Church Street (D)
E. Main Street At Douglas Street (D)
High Street    At “A” Street (D)
High Street    At E. Main Street (D)
High Street    At Washington Street (D)
Ill. Rte. 13   At 74th Street (A)
Ill. Rte. 13   At Westfield Plaza (D)
Ill. Rte. 13   At N. Belt West (A)
Ill. Rte. 13   At State Street Road (A)
Ill. Rte. 13   At Ill. Rte. 158 (A)
Ill. Rte. 15   At 74th Street (A)
Ill. Rte. 159  At Ill. Rte. 13 (A)
Ill. Rte. 159  At Lincoln Street (C)
Ill. Rte. 159  At Washington Street (C)
Ill. Rte. 159  At “A” Street (C)
Ill. Rte. 159  At “C” Street (C)
Ill. Rte. 159  At Lebanon Avenue (C)
Ill. Rte. 159  At “F” Street (C)
Ill. Rte. 159  At Douglas Avenue (E)
Ill. Rte. 161  At Carson Road (C)
Ill. Rte. 161  At 57th Street (B)
Ill. Rte. 161  At Royal Heights Road (B)
Ill. Rte. 161  At 17th Street (A)
Ill. Rte. 161  At Lebanon Avenue (C)
Ill. Rte. 161  At “B” Street (C)
Ill. Rte. 161  At Carlyle Road (B)
Ill. Rte. 161  At West Boulevard (A)
Ill. Rte. 161  At K-Mart (D)
Ill. Rte. 177  At Greenmount Road (A)
N. Belt West   At 17th Street (E)
N. Belt West   At Canterbury (A)
N. Belt West   At Royal Heights Road (A)
N. Belt West   At 42nd Street (D)
N. Belt West   At W. Main Street (A)
N. Belt West   At 59th Street (A)
Shiloh Road    At Old Collinsville Road (A)
W. Main Street At 57th Street (A)
W. Main Street At 59th Street (A)
W. Main Street At 70th Street (A)
W. Main Street At Ill. Rte. 157 (A)
W. Main Street At 1st Street (D)
W. Main Street At 6th Street (D)
W. Main Street At 17th Street (D)
W. Main Street At 22nd Street (D)
W. Main Street At 37th Street (D)
W. Main Street At 62nd Street (D)
W. Main Street At 95th Street (D)
West Boulevard At Old Collinsville Road (A)
West Boulevard At Lebanon Avenue (A)
NOTES TO TABLE:
Maintenance Responsibility
(A) = State 100% - City 0%
(B) = State 75% - City 25%
(C) = State 50% - City 50%
(D) = State 0% - City 100%
(E) = Other
 
(1960 Code, Ch. 52, Schd. A)
   (B)   Pedestrian and school traffic signals. In accordance with §
70.021 of this traffic code, the following locations are designated pedestrian
and school traffic signal control locations:
Street Location
Street             Location
Carlyle Road       Between Garden Boulevard and Missouri Avenue
Lebanon Avenue     Between Koerner Street and Sherman Street
N. 2nd Street      Between W. “C” Street and W. “D” Street
N. Belt            At Buckingham Road
Royal Heights Road Between North Street and S. Park Drive
S. Charles Street  Between Monroe Street and E. Garfield Street
Sherman Street     Between N. Charles Street and LaSalle Street
W. Main Street     At 28th Street
W. Main Street     Between 2nd and 3rd Street
W. Main Street     Between 17th Street and 18th Street
W. Main Street     Between 27th Street and 28th Street
W. Main Street     Between 48th Street and 49th Street
W. Main Street     Between 53rd Street and 54th Street
W. Main Street     Between 74th Street and 75th Street
W. Main Street     Between 88th Street and 89th Street
 
(1960 Code, Ch. 52, Schd. A-1) (Ord. 8885-2020, passed 10-19-2020; Ord. 9330-
2024, passed 11-4-2024)
SCHEDULE II. THROUGH STREETS, STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Through streets, stop intersections. In accordance with §
70.040 of this traffic code, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering any
of the following designated through streets and stop intersections unless
otherwise directed by a police officer or traffic-control signal.
      (1)   Through street/location of stops.
Through Street Location of Stops Ord. No. Date Passed
Through Street                  Location of Stops                                                         Ord.  Date
                                                                                                          No.   Passed
“A” Street                  At N. 2nd Street                                                          3647
“A” Street                  At N. 3rd Street                                                          3647
“A” Street Coupler          At N. 1st Street (South Bd.)                                              3647
“A” Street Coupler          At Oak Street (South Bd.)                                                 3647
“A” Street Coupler          At West Main Street (West Bd.)
“A” Street Coupler          At N. 4th Street (North Bd.)
“B” Street                  At W. Schilling Street                                                    3994
“B” Street                  At Glencoe Drive                                                          3994
“F” Street                  At 1st Street (South Bd.)
74th Street                     At Comwest Parkway (West)                                                 6458  9-3-
                                                                                                                2002
Abend Street                    At Adams                                                                  7416  7-19-
                                                                                                                2010
Abend Street                    At Garfield Street
Abend Street                    At Monroe Street (Both)                                                   4566
Bel Aire Street                 At Wabash Avenue
Berwin Green                    At Huntmaster Drive                                                       6724  4-4-
                                                                                                                2005
Brentmor Drive                  At Longview Drive                                                         4366
Brittany Lane                   At Brentmoor Drive                                                        3327
Brookmeadow Drive               At Brookmont Drive (South)                                                6449  8-5-
                                                                                                                2002
Brookmeadow Drive               At Brookrun Drive                                                         6769  8-15-
                                                                                                                2005
Brookmeadow Drive               At Eastbrook Drive (South)                                                6449  8-5-
                                                                                                                2002
Brookrun Drive                  At Brookmanor                                                             6769  8-15-
                                                                                                                2005
Brookrun Drive                  At Brookmont Drive (North)                                                6449  8-5-
                                                                                                                2002
Brookrun Drive                  At Eastbrook Drive (North)                                                6449  8-5-
                                                                                                                2002
Buckingham Road                 At Mariknoll Drive                                                        2996
Buckingham Road                 At Dale Allen Drive                                                       2996
Busch Boulevard                 At Bevo Ct. (North)                                                       6371  1-7-
                                                                                                                2002
Cedar Grove Drive               Longridge Circle                                                          8429- 3-2-
                                                                                                          2020  2020
Centerville Avenue              At W. Lincoln Street
Centerville Avenue              At W. Lincoln Street (Both)
Centerville Avenue              At Lincoln Street (South)                                                 4085
Chaucer Drive                   At Queensway Drive                                                        4140
Chestnut Drive                  At Meadowbrook Ln. (East Bd.)                                             5699  2-17-
                                                                                                                1997
Clearview Drive                 At Brittany Lane                                                          5699  2-17-
                                                                                                                1997
Clearview Drive                 At Rosewood Drive                                                         3327
Clearview Drive                 At Chevy Chase                                                            3405
Clearview Drive                 At Westfield                                                              6590  11-3-
                                                                                                                2003
Cleveland Avenue                At S. 6th Street (Both)                                                   3149
Cleveland Avenue                At S. 1st Street                                                          3895
Columbus Drive                  At W. Belle Street                                                        3384
Commons Parkway                 At Pine Valley Drive                                                      7903  11-2-
                                                                                                                2015
Commons Parkway                 At Wintercreek Drive/Turning Leaf Circle                                  7903  11-2-
                                                                                                                2015
Devonshire Drive                At Vicksburg Drive                                                        4114
Dewey Street                    At Orchard Street                                                         3320
E. “A” Street               At Michigan Avenue
E. “A” Street and W. “A”Except at N. High Street, N. Jackson Street, N. 17th Street, Iowa Avenue
                                and Pennsylvania Avenue
E. “C” Street and W. “C”Except at N. High Street and N. Jackson Street
E. Main Street and W. Main      Mascoutah Avenue
Street
E. McKinley Street              At Annex Street (North Bd.)                                               5768  8-4-
                                                                                                                1997
E. McKinley Street              At Caroline Street (North Bd.)                                            5768  8-4-
                                                                                                                1997
E. McKinley Street              At S. Douglas Avenue
E. McKinley Street              At Forest Avenue
E. McKinley Street              At Garden Boulevard
E. McKinley Street              At Park Avenue
E. McKinley Street              At S. Pennsylvania
E. McKinley Street              At Portland
E. McKinley Street              At Wabash Avenue
E. McKinley Street              Missouri Avenue
E. McKinley Street              Virginia Avenue
E. Monroe Street                Forest Avenue                                                             3305
E. Monroe Street                Park Avenue                                                               3340
E. Van Buren                    At S. Church Street                                                       7327  11-2-
                                                                                                                2009
E. Washington Street            At S. Church Street                                                       5445  8-7-
                                                                                                                1995
E. Washington Street            At S. Charles Street                                                      5594  - -
                                                                                                                1996
E. Washington Street and W.     From 3rd Street to Mascoutah Avenue except at S. Charles Street, S.
Washington Street               Jackson Street, and S. 10th Street
East “C” Street             At N. Church Street (Both)                                                5159
East “C” Street             At Hillcrest                                                              3527
East Adams Street               At Freeburg Avenue
East Adams Street               At Survey Street                                                          4403
East Adams Street               At Douglas Alley                                                          7218  1-5-
                                                                                                                2009
Fairway Drive                   At Arnold Palmer Drive                                                    6920  10-2-
                                                                                                                2006
Fairway Drive                   At Fourlakes Drive                                                        6777  10-3-
                                                                                                                2005
Fairway Drive                   At Slammer Drive                                                          6777  10-3-
                                                                                                                2005
Fairway Drive                   At Tigers Way                                                             6777  10-3-
                                                                                                                2005
Forest Avenue                   At E. McKinley Street
Fourlakes Drive                 At Slammer Drive                                                          6777  10-3-
                                                                                                                2005
Fox Valley Ln.                  At Huntmaster Drive                                                       6724  4-4-
                                                                                                                2005
Fox Valley Ln.                  At Wexford Green                                                          6724  4-4-
                                                                                                                2005
Frank Scott Parkway West        At Dalton Drive                                                           6467  10-7-
                                                                                                                2002
Freeburg Avenue                 From S. Charles Street to south city limits
Freemont Street                 At N. Church Street                                                       3320
Frontage Road                   At Maple Hill Ln.                                                         7232  3-2-
                                                                                                                2009
Garden Boulevard                At Prairie Avenue (Both)                                                  5905  9-8-
                                                                                                                1998
Garnette                        At Beykirch Street                                                        3810
Gettysburg                      At Fourscore                                                              7084
Golf Course Drive               At Double Eagle Circle                                                    6769  8-15-
                                                                                                                2005
Golf Course Drive               At Double Eagle Ct.                                                       6467  10-7-
                                                                                                                2002
Golf Course Drive               At Eighteenth Fairway Drive                                               5372  2-6-
                                                                                                                1995
Golf Course Drive               and Sixteenth Green Ct.                                                   5372  2-6-
                                                                                                                1995
Golf Course Drive (at the exit  Across From Eighteenth Fairway Drive                                      5372  2-6-
of the Swimming Pool)                                                                                           1995
Golf Course Drive (at the exit  Across From Eighteenth Fairway Drive                                      5372  2-6-
of the Golf Course)                                                                                             1995
Golf Course Drive               On Mammoth Lake Lane                                                      8040- 4-3-
                                                                                                          2017  2017
Golf Course Drive               On Lake Superior Lane                                                     8040- 4-3-
                                                                                                          2017  2017
Gray Street                     At N. 46th Street (Both)                                                  4173
Gray Street                     At N. 45th Street                                                         5746  6-16-
                                                                                                                1997
Green Mount Ln.                 At Tower Plaza Drive                                                      7347  1-4-
                                                                                                                2010
Hecker Street                   At Scheel Street                                                          3021
Highland Avenue                 At Monroe Street
Hillcrest Drive                 At East “D” Street                                                    3734
IL Rte. 13                      Busch Boulevard (West)                                                    6371  1-7-
                                                                                                                2002
Illinois Central Gulf RR        At S. Charles Street (Both)                                               4154
Jack Nicklaus Drive             At Ben Hogan Ct.                                                          6777  10-3-
                                                                                                                2005
Jackson Street                  At “C” Street (Both)                                                  6224  11-6-
                                                                                                                2000
Jay Street                      At N. 1st Street                                                          6669  9-7-
                                                                                                                2004
Kimberlin Lane                  At Clearwater Drive                                                       5372  2-6-
                                                                                                                1995
Lake Forest Drive               At Chestnut Drive (North Bd.)                                             5768  8-4-
                                                                                                                1997
LaSalle Street                  At Hecker Street                                                          3845
LaSalle Street                  At Arthur Street                                                          3027
Lebanon Avenue                  Except at Douglas Street
Lebanon Avenue                  At Central Plaza Drive (East Bd.)                                         5793  10-6-
                                                                                                                1997
Lebanon Avenue                  At Dublin Boulevard                                                       6715  3-7-
                                                                                                                2005
Lincoln Street                  At S. Church Street                                                       3665
Lucinda Avenue                  At N. Church Street
Lucinda Avenue                  At LaSalle Street
Lucinda Avenue                  At Scheel Street
Lucinda Avenue                  At Muren                                                                  2992
Maple Drive                     At West Hampton Trace                                                     7011  8-6-
                                                                                                                2007
Mariknoll Drive                 At Lancelot Place                                                         3320
Mariknoll Drive                 At Dale Allen Drive                                                       3320
Marlo Drive                     At Forest Street                                                          3814
Memorial Drive                  N. 39th Street                                                            3118
Memorial Drive                  N. 43rd Street                                                            3118
Memorial Drive                  E. Park Drive                                                             3134
Mitchell Ln.                    Winchester Drive                                                          7566  2-6-
                                                                                                                2012
Muren Boulevard                 Delaware Avenue
N. 101st Street                 At Olympia Street (North)                                                 6371  1-7-
                                                                                                                2002
N. 11th Street                  At West “C” Street                                                    3484
N. 12th Street                  At West “E” Street                                                    3685
N. 17th Street                  At “A” Street
N. 18th Street                  At West “A” Street (Both)                                             4673
N. 1st Street                   At West “D” Street
N. 1st Street                   At West “E” Street
N. 26th Street                  At West “A” Street
N. 28th Street                  At Sheridan Avenue                                                        3243
N. 2nd Street                   At West “E” Street                                                    3649
N. 2nd Street                   At West “H” Street
N. 2nd Street                   At West “I” Street                                                    3089
N. 2nd Street                   At West “J” Street
N. 37th Street                  At West “A” Street                                                    3296
N. 41st Street                  At Shirley Drive                                                          5707  3-17-
                                                                                                                1997
N. 43rd Street                  At Berrywood                                                              7416  7-19-
                                                                                                                2010
N. 43rd Street                  At Short Street (East Bd.)                                                5282  7-18-
                                                                                                                1994
N. 44th Street                  At Southern R. R. Crossing                                                5501  1-16-
                                                                                                                1996
N. 47th Street                  At Bier Street                                                            3457
N. 49th Street                  At Bier Street                                                            3320
N. 4th Street Rear              At West “C” Street                                                    5467  10-2-
                                                                                                                1995
N. 5th Street                   At West “D” Street                                                    3810
N. 5th Street                   At West “F” Street
N. 6th Street                   At Richland Office exit at the bike trail                                 6502  1-21-
                                                                                                                2003
N. 72nd Street                  At West “A” Street                                                    3844
N. 72nd Street                  At Lakewood Drive (South)                                                 6852  4-3-
                                                                                                                2006
N. 98th Street                  At Baltimore Street (South)                                               6371  1-7-
                                                                                                                2002
N. 98th Street                  At Olympia Street (South)                                                 6371  1-7-
                                                                                                                2002
N. Charles Street               At Arthur Street
N. Charles Street               At Benton Street (Both)                                                   6377  2-4-
                                                                                                                2002
N. Charles Street               At “D” Street (East)                                                  6332  10-1-
                                                                                                                2001
N. Charles Street               At Delaware Avenue
N. Charles Street               At Freemont Street (South)                                                6255
N. Charles Street               At Hecker Street
N. Charles Street               At Scheel Street                                                          4100
N. Church Street                At E. Adams Street
N. Church Street                At Arthur Street
N. Church Street                At Benton Street (Both)                                                   6377  2-4-
                                                                                                                2002
N. Church Street                At Bristow Avenue
N. Church Street                At Clay Street                                                            3376
N. Church Street                At East “D” Street
N. Church Street                At Dewey Street                                                           4085
N. Church Street                At Arthur Street                                                          7839  1-6-
                                                                                                                2015
N. Douglas Avenue               At East “A” Street (West Bd.)
N. Douglas Avenue               At East “C” Street
N. Douglas Avenue               At N. Charles Street
N. Douglas Avenue               At East “D” Street
N. Douglas Avenue               At Grand Avenue (South Corner)
N. Douglas Avenue               At N. Oak (North Bd.)
N. Douglas Avenue               At Sycamore Street (Both)
N. Douglas Avenue               At Walnut Street                                                          3370
N. First Street and S. First    Except at W. “C” Street, W. Lincoln Street, W. Main Street, W. Monroe
Street                          Street, and W. Washington Street
N. High Street and S. High      Except at E. Main Street, E. Washington Street, and Lebanon Avenue
Street
N. Illinois Street and S.        
Illinois Street
N. Jackson Street and S.        Except at E. Main Street
Jackson Street
N. Oak Street                   E. “D” Street                                                         3155
N. Park Drive                   Susann Court                                                              4879
Nicholas Drive                  Bobby Jones Court                                                         6651  5-17-
                                                                                                                2004
Oak Street                      “A” Street (West Bd.)                                                 3647
Old Collinsville Road           Central Plaza Drive (West Bd.)                                            5788
Olive Street                    Douglas Avenue (South)                                                    3563
Otto Street                     S. 29th Street
Page Street                     Delaware Street (Both)                                                    5112
Park Drive & Bier Street        N. 49th Street
Pennsylvania Avenue             Olive Street (Both)                                                       5112
Plum Hill Road                  Nicholas Drive                                                            6651  5-17-
                                                                                                                2004
Portland Avenue                 Prairie Avenue                                                            4451
Pro Tour Drive                  Eleventh Fairway Drive                                                    5372  2-6-
                                                                                                                1995
Raab Avenue                     S. 15th Street                                                            4995
Raab Avenue                     S. 16th Street                                                            4995
Reunion Boulevard               Harmony Ridge Drive                                                       6837  3-6-
                                                                                                                2006
Reunion Boulevard               Ivy Chase Ln.                                                             6837  3-6-
                                                                                                                2006
Reunion Boulevard               Liberty Torch Ct.                                                         6714  - -
                                                                                                                2005
Reunion Boulevard               Reserve Walk Way                                                          6714  - -
                                                                                                                2005
Reunion Boulevard               Rivermeade Ln.                                                            6714  - -
                                                                                                                2005
Reunion Boulevard               Woodsong Way East                                                         6837  3-6-
                                                                                                                2006
Reunion Boulevard               Woodsong Way West                                                         6837  3-6-
                                                                                                                2006
Roland Avenue                   S. 31st Street                                                            4437
Rose Marie Drive                E. Haven Drive                                                            6486  12-2-
                                                                                                                2002
Route 177                       Fox Valley Ln.                                                            6724  4-4-
                                                                                                                2005
Route 177                       Misty Hollow Drive                                                        6724  4-4-
                                                                                                                2005
Rte. 158                        At Meadowlark Drive                                                       5905  9-8-
                                                                                                                1998
S. 10th Street                  At Harrison Street                                                        7511  8-1-
                                                                                                                2011
S. 10th Street                  At West Monroe Street
S. 10th Street                  At West Washington Street
S. 10th Street                  At West Lincoln Street                                                    3109
S. 11th Street                  At West Lincoln Street
S. 11th Street                  At Raab Avenue (West Bd.)                                                 4007
S. 13th Street                  At West Lincoln Street
S. 15th Street                  At Franklin Avenue                                                        4081
S. 15th Street                  At Raap Avenue (Both)                                                     5155
S. 16th Street                  At Bunsen                                                                 9250- 2-20-
                                                                                                          2024  2024
S. 16th Street                  At Franklin Avenue                                                        4081
S. 17th Street                  At Franklin Street                                                        3168
S. 20th Street                  At Madison                                                                9306- 8-19-
                                                                                                          2024  2024
S. 20th Street                  At Roosevelt Avenue                                                       3246
S. 22nd Street                  At W. Washington                                                          6508  2-3-
                                                                                                                2003
S. 23rd Street                  At W. Washington (Both)
S. 3rd Street                   At West Garfield Street                                                   3043
S. 53rd Street                  At Southern most alley off S. 53rd Street                                 4772
S. 64th Street                  At W. Washington Street (West)                                            3148
S. 74th Street                  At Sheffeld Drive                                                         4398
S. Charles Street               From E. Main Street to Freeburg Avenue
S. Charles Street               At Grant Street                                                           4338
S. Church Street                At E. Garfield Street
S. Church Street                At Hecker Street
S. Church Street                At E. Lincoln Street                                                      3109
S. Church Street                At Van Buren Street                                                       3320
S. Church Street                At Grant Street                                                           3320
S. Douglas Avenue               At Prairie Avenue                                                         6774  9-19-
                                                                                                                2005
S. Missouri Avenue              Prairie Avenue                                                            3305
S. Park Drive                   N. 44th Street                                                            7713  9-3-
                                                                                                                2013
S. Park Drive                   Susan Court                                                               5905  9-8-
                                                                                                                1998
Sandwedge Drive                 Erica Renee Ct.                                                           7208  12-15-
                                                                                                                2008
Sandwedge Drive                 E. Haven Drive (Both)                                                     6255
Sandwedge Drive                 Threewood Drive                                                           6308
Scheel Street                   Arthur Street
Scheel Street                   Benton Street                                                             4085
Scheel Street                   Bristow Street                                                            6145  6-5-
                                                                                                                2000
Scheel Street                   N. Charles Street (South)                                                 6332  10-1-
                                                                                                                2001
Scheel Street                   Sycamore Street (West)                                                    6332  10-1-
                                                                                                                2001
Schilling Street                Scheel Street (East Bd.)                                                  3890
Schleuter- Germain Road         Obstweg Road                                                              8363- 8-19-
                                                                                                          2019  2019
Sheridan Street                 N. 29th Street (East Bd.)                                                 3887
Sherman Street (North Belt)     Scheel Street                                                             4828
Southgate Drive                 Mitchell Lane
Southgate Drive                 Rosewood (SE Corner)
Southgate Drive                 Willow Creek Drive                                                        5768  8-4-
                                                                                                                1997
Southwind Drive                 Shannon Ln.                                                               6715  3-7-
                                                                                                                2005
State Street                    Forest Gate Drive                                                         4072
State Street                    S. 7th Street                                                             3955
State Street                    Blair Avenue (Both)                                                       4255
State Street                    Street Clair Avenue (Both)                                                4255
Stevens Street                  Sheridan Street (North Bd.)
Summit Street                   At N. 36th Street
Summit Street                   At N. 37th Street
Summit Street                   At N. 38th Street
Summit Street                   At N. 39th Street
Summit Street                   At N. 40th Street
Summit Street                   At N. 41st Street
Summit Street                   At N. 42nd Street
Sycamore Street                 At Walnut Street
Taft Street                     At Fairwood Drive                                                         6964  2-5-
                                                                                                                2007
Turkey Hill Ln.                 Canyon Creek                                                              6774  9-19-
                                                                                                                2005
Union Avenue                    At 10th Street
Union Avenue                    At S. 13th Street                                                         4879
Union Avenue                    At Blair Avenue                                                           8982- 8-16-
                                                                                                          2021  2021
Vernier Avenue                  At N. 32nd Street                                                         4427
Vicksburg Drive                 At Saratoga Drive (North)                                                 4570
W. “A” Street               At N. 21st Street                                                         4032
W. “A” Street               At N. 21st Street (Both)                                                  5198
W. “C” Street               At N. 4th Street Rear                                                     5463
West “E” Street             At North 1st Street                                                       7965- 6-28-
                                                                                                          2016  2016
W. “E” Street               At N. 6th Street
W. “E” Street               At N. 12th Street                                                         4614
W. “E” Street               At Catawba Avenue
W. “F” Street               At N. 3rd Street
W. “F” Street               At N. 5th Street
W. Belle Street                 At Foster Street
W. Garfield                     At S. 2nd Street                                                          3043
W. Main Street                  At 14th Street
W. Main Street                  At 16th Street                                                            4614
W. Main Street                  At N. 50th Street                                                         6803  12-5-
                                                                                                                2005
W. Main Street                  At Mt. Carmel Cemetery Entrance
W. Monroe Street                2nd Street (South Bd.)
W. Monroe Street                Bornman Street
Wabash Avenue                   At Arabelle Drive                                                         3405
Wabash Avenue                   At Prairie Avenue                                                         3744
Wabash Avenue                   At Rose Dell Drive                                                        3405
Washington Street               At S. 6th Street                                                          3647
Washington Street               At S. Jackson Street                                                      3647
Werner Road                     At Southgate
West “B” Street             At N. 1st Street
West “C” Street             At Kretschmer                                                             4410
West “C” Street             At N. 4th Street Rear                                                     5463
West “D” Street             At 2nd Street (Both)                                                      5159
West “D” Street             At N. 3rd Street                                                          5793  10-6-
                                                                                                                1997
West “D” Street             At N. 7th Street
West “D” Street             At N. 13th Street
West “E” Street             At 8th Street                                                             3314
West Belle Valley Drive         At Marsh Drive (West Bd.)                                                 7176  9-2-
                                                                                                                2008
Westhaven Drive                 At Westhaven Place Ln. (North Bd.)                                        5793  10-6-
                                                                                                                1997
Westhaven School Road           At Celebration Park Circle                                                6714  - -
                                                                                                                2005
Westhaven School Road           At Reserve Walk Way                                                       6714  - -
                                                                                                                2005
Westhaven School Road           At Richmond Springs Ln.                                                   6714  - -
                                                                                                                2005
Wexford Green                   At Misty Hollow Drive                                                     6724  4-4-
                                                                                                                2005
Woodbury Drive                  At Winchester
 
      (2)   Through street/stop street.
 
Through Street or Alley Stop Street                     Ord. No.  Date Passed
E. Main Street          Alley (South Bd.) (at corner of
                        E. Main & Carlyle Avenue)
Ill. Central Railroad   S. 16th Street                  3387
L & N Railroad Tracks   N. Church Street                3434
North 33rd Street       West “A” Street (East)      7956-2016 6-6-2016
Southern Railroad       S. 44th Street                  3384
Tanewood Ct.            Persimmon Ridge                 8936-2021 4-19-2021
 
      (3)   Special situations.
         (a)   No through traffic shall be allowed on the alley south of W.
Main Street between S. 12th and 13th Street.
         (b)   No through truck traffic shall be allowed on Commons Parkway at
North Green Mount.
         (c)   No through truck traffic shall be allowed on Green Mount Commons
Drive at the rear of the retail shopping center.
         (d)   No left turn shall be allowed on Green Mount Commons at the rear
of the retail shopping center.
(1960 Code, Ch. 52, Schd. B)
   (B)   Stop and yield intersections (varied).
 
Street - Direction          Street - Direction           Ord. No.   Date Passed
“E” Street (West Bd.)   At N. 6th Street (North Bd.) 4688
E Adams                     At Wabash Avenue             9355- 2024 11-4-2024
S. Park Drive (Stop - West) At N. 39th Street (South -   5814       12-1-1997
                            Yield)
 
(1960 Code, Ch. 52, Schd. B-1)
   (C)   Four-way, three-way and two-way stop intersections. In accordance with
§
70.040 of this traffic code, drivers of all vehicles shall stop as indicated
before entering the following designated four-way and three-way stop
intersections unless otherwise directed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal:
      (1)   Four-way stop intersections.
Intersection Ord. No. Date Passed
Intersection                                         Ord. No.   Date Passed
8th Street and “C” Street                        5274       7-5-1994
8th Street and “D” Street                        5274       7-5-1994
11th Street and W. “A” Street                    3647
Abend Street and Garfield Street                     4777
Affleck Street and Street Clair Avenue               7623       9-4-2012
Ben Louis (Both) and Rugby Drive                     5357       12-5-1994
Bornman and W. Adams Street                          6224       11-6-2000
Brentmoor Drive and Ladue Road                       5934       12- -1998
Brittany Lane and Brentmore Drive                    3744
Chevy Chase and Southgate Drive                      7470       2-7-2011
Coolidge Drive and Lakeshore Drive                   6724       4-4-2005
Commons Parkway and Cedar Grove Drive/Autumn Harvest 7903       11-2-2015
Drive
Cross Drive and John Henry Street                    5788
Denvershire Drive and Vicksburg Drive                5501       1-16-1996
Dewey Street and Commercial Street                   5928       11-2-1998
Dewey Street and Orchard Street                      5501       1-16-1996
Douglas Avenue and Scheel Street                     7296       8-3-2009
Dublin Boulevard and Galway Drive                    6852       4-3-2006
Dublin Boulevard and Shannon Ln.                     6715       3-7-2005
E. “A” Street and Florida Avenue                 5399       4-3-1995
E. “A” Street and Pennsylvania Avenue            5678       1-6-1997
E. “B” Street and N. Charles Street              7476       3-7-2011
E. “B” Street and Church Street                  3604
E. “B” Street and Douglas Avenue
E. “C” Street and Church Street                  5198
E. Grant Street and Freeburg Avenue                  7883       8-3-2015
E. Lincoln Street and S. Charles Street              3968
E. Main Street and Church Street                     7084
E. Main Street and Jackson Street                    7084
E. Monroe Street and Forest Avenue                   3511
E. Monroe Street and S. High Street                  3583
E. Park Drive and N. Park Drive                      5803       11-3-1997
Fairview Avenue and S. 21st Street                   6323       9-4-2001
Forest Avenue and E. McKinley Street                 4619
Foster Avenue and Laurette Ln.                       5324       10-3-1994
Garden Boulevard and McKinley Drive                  3246
Huff Street and State Street
Iowa Avenue and E. “A” Street                    3405
Jay Avenue and Foster Street                         4287
Koerner Street and N. Church Street                  5726       4-7-1997
Lake Forest Drive and Springwood Drive               5814       12-1-1997
Laurette Lane and Canterbury Drive                   3465
Lebanon Avenue and Douglas Avenue
Lincoln Street and S. Church Street                  4593
Lincoln Street and S. Jackson Street                 3452
Lucinda Avenue and E. “A” Street                 8116-2017  10-16-2017
Lucinda Avenue and E. “B” Street
Mariknoll and Devonshire Drive                       3159
Mascoutah Avenue and Abend Street                    3665
Mascoutah Avenue and East Monroe Street              9204- 2023 10-16-2023
Mascoutah Avenue and Lincoln Street                  3665
McClintock Avenue and Garden Boulevard               8344       6-17-2019
McClintock Avenue and S. Pennsylvania Avenue         3597
Missouri Avenue and E. McKinley Avenue               5395       3-20-1995
Missouri Avenue and Prairie Street                   5324       10-3-1994
Missouri Avenue and Wabash Avenue                    5395       3-20-1995
Muren Boulevard and Delaware Avenue                  4512
N. 11th Street and W. “D” Street                 4547
N. 12th Street and W. “A” Street                 6418       5-6-2002
N. 12th Street and W. “E” Street                 3784
N. 14th Street and W. “A” Street                 6418       5-6-2002
N. 2nd Street and West “D” Street                5198
N. 2nd Street and West “C” Street
N. 37th Street and Summit Avenue                     3583
N. 3rd Street and West “C” Street                5372       2-6-1995
N. 49th Street and Bier Street                       3630
N. 5th Street and West “H” Street                5752
N. 7th Street and West “C” Street                3073
North 70th Street and West “A” Street            7956-2016  6-6-2016
North 9th Street and West “E” Street             7995-2016  11-21-2016
N. Charles Street and Lucinda Avenue
N. Charles Street and Delaware Avenue                4453
N. Charles Street and Bristow Street                 5463
N. Church Street and Hecker Street                   4057
N. Church Street and E. “C” Street
N. High Street and E. “B” Street                 3168
N. High Street and E. “C” Street                 4918
Olive Street and Pennsylvania Avenue                 5273       6-20-1994
Orchard Street and Dewey Street                      5501       1-16-1996
Prairie Avenue and S. Pennsylvania Avenue            5445       8-7-1995
Raab Avenue and S. 13th Street                       4114
Roan Hill Drive and Canyon Creek Drive               7559       1-3-2012
S. 2nd Street and Harrison Street                    3111
S. 2nd Street and W. Lincoln Street
S. 6th Street and West Cleveland Avenue              4338
S. 15th Street and Raab Street                       5198
S. 17th Street and Raab Avenue                       3159
S. 20th Street and Roosevelt Avenue                  7889       8-17-2016
S. 29th Street and Godfrey Street                    4437
S. 33rd Street and Roland Avenue                     6418       5-6-2002
S. Charles Street and E. Garfield Street             9222- 2023 11-20-2023
S. Church Street and E. Van Buren Street             7327       11-2-2009
S. Church Street and E. McKinley Street              5905       9-8-1998
S. High Street and Van Buren Street                  5159
S. High Street and E. Lincoln Street                 2992
S. High Street and E. Adams Street
S. Jackson Street and E. Garfield Street             6620       2-2-2004
S. Jackson Street and E. Monroe Street               4148
S. Jackson Street and E. McKinley Street             3362
S. Jackson Street and E. Adams                       6476       11-4-2002
Sheridan Avenue and Alexander Street                 5274       7-5-1994
Sheridan Avenue and Stevens Street                   3475
Springdale and Rosewood Drive                        7267       6-15-2009
Street Clair Avenue and Union Avenue                 7613       8-6-2012
State Street and Cleveland Avenue
Stevens Street and Foster Street                     4312
Summit Street and N. 39th Street                     6126       5-2-2000
Union Avenue and S. 13th Street                      5011
Union Avenue and S. 11th Street                      4007
Union Avenue and S. 8th Street                       4380
Vernier Avenue and N. 31st Street                    5445       8-7-1995
Vernier Avenue and N. 32nd Street                    5984       5-17-1999
Virginia Avenue and Prairie Avenue                   5341       11-21-1994
W. “B” Street and N. 2nd Street                  7176       9-2-2008
W. “G” Street and N. 2nd Street
W. Garfield Street (Both) and S. 1st Street (South)  5752
W. Main Street and 2nd Street                        7084
W. Monroe Street and S. 8th Street                   4533
Wabash Avenue and Bel-Aire Drive                     3810
Wabash Avenue and Maiden Lane                        4566
Wabash Avenue and McClintock Avenue                  5395       3-20-1995
Walnut Street and E. “D” Street
Werner Road and Blueridge Drive                      5699       2-17-1997
Westhaven Meadows Drive and Westhampton Terrace      7232       3-2-2009
 
      (2)   Three-way stop intersections.
Intersection Ord. No. Date Passed
Intersection                                             Ord. No.   Date Passed
10th Fairway and Golf Course Drive                       7039       11-5-2007
48th Street (Both) and Bier Street (East Bd.)
Arnold Palmer Drive and Fairway Drive                    7176       9-2-2008
Arnold Palmer Drive and Jack Nicklaus Drive              7067       1-7-2008
Belleville Crossing and Belleville West Parkway          7637       10-15-2012
Ben Louis (Both) and Rugby Drive (North Bd.)             5351       12-5-1994
Brookmeadow Dr. (Both) and Brookglen Drive (South Bd.)   6449       8-5-2002
Cedar Grove Dr. and Sparrow Pt.                          8430- 2020 3-2-2020
Church Street (Both) and E. Washington Street (East Bd.) 5445       8-7-1995
Commons Parkway and Pine Valley                          9099-2022  11-21-2022
Dale-Allen Drive (East Bd.) and Chaucer Drive (Both)
Devonshire Drive (South Bd.) and Mariknoll Street (Both)
E. “A” Street and N. Charles                         7129       5-5-2008
Foley Drive and Mitchell Ln. (Both)
Forest Avenue (Both) and Washington Street (3647) (East
Bd.)
Golf Course Drive (Both) and Pro Tour Drive (South Bd.)  5372       2-6-1995
Koerner Street (South Bd.) and N. Charles Street (Both)  4593
Lorenz Ln. (North Bd.) and Lake Forest Drive (Both)      5273       6-20-1994
Mariknoll Drive (Both) and Buckingham Road (North Bd.)   3457
Marlo Drive (Both) and Foster Drive (East Bd.)           3844
Mascoutah Avenue and East Monroe Street                  9204- 2023 10-16-2023
Mascoutah Avenue (Both) and E. Washington Street (East   5445       8-7-1995
Bd.)
McKinley Street (Both) and Ann Street (North Bd.)        5445       8-7-1995
Meadowlark Ln. and Four Seasons Drive                    6979       4-2-2007
Mt. Pleasant Road (West Bd.) and Old Dutch Hollow Road   4118
(Both)
Muren Boulevard (Both) and Hillcrest Drive (North Bd.)   5884       6-15-1998
N. 2nd Street (Both) and W. A Street (West)              7782       6-2-2014
N. 37th Street (Both) and Columbus Drive (West Bd.)      3155
N. 82nd Street and Sherwood Forest                       6057
N. Church Street and Arthur Street                       7839       1-6-2015
Orchard Drive (Both) and Apple Tree Ln. (South Bd.)      6268
Orchard Drive (Both) and Belle Crest Drive (South Bd.)   6238       12-4-2000
Pro Tour Drive (Both) and Tenth Fairway Drive (West Bd.) 5445       8-7-1995
Pro Tour Drive and Fairway Drive                         6837       3-6-2006
Reunion and Liberty Torch                                7720       10-7-2013
Ridgecrest Drive and Westridge Drive                     6908       8-7-2006
S. 10th Street (Both) and W. Monroe Street               5852       3-16-1998
S. 11th Street (Both) and Raab Avenue (East Bd.)         6214       10-2-2000
S. 1st Street (Southbd.) and W. Lincoln Street (Both)    4287
S. 20th Street (Both) and Fairview Avenue (South Bd.)    6323       9-4-2001
S. 2nd Street (Both) and W. Washington Street (East Bd.) 7656       1-7-2013
S. Church Street and E. Adams Street                     7832       12-15-2014
S. Park Street (Both) and 41st Street (North Bd.)        5282       7-18-1994
S. Park Drive and N. 44th Street                         7713       9-3-2013
Scheel Street (East Bd.) and Lucinda Avenue (Both)       4777
Sheridan Avenue (North) and Columbus Drive (Both)        4194
Springdale and Brentmoor Drive                           7267       6-15-2009
Springwood Drive (South) and Lake Forest Drive (Both)    5219       2-7-1994
State Street Road and Lake Shore Drive                   7208       12-15-2008
Stevens Street (Both) and Terry lane (South)             7725       11-4-2013
Tampico Drive and Limerick Ln.                           7176       9-2-2008
Union Avenue (West) and S. 14th Street (Both)            5965       4-5-1999
W. Adams and S. 18th Street                              7312       10-5-2009
W. “E” Street and North 1st Street                   7985- 2016 9-6-2016
W. Garfield Street and S. 1st Street                     5752
W. Harrison Street (Both) and S. 3rd Street (West Bd.)   3358
W. Harrison Street (Both) and S. 1st Street (South Bd.)  3859
Washington Street (East) and Mascoutah Avenue (Both)     5445       8-7-1995
Washington Street (East) and S. Jackson Street (Both)    3452
Westhaven Place and Westhaven Ln.                        7327       11-2-2009
Westhaven Place Ln. (North Bd.) and Westhaven Drive      5793       10-6-1997
(Both)
Westhaven School Road and Reunion Boulevard              6714       - -2005
Winchester Drive (Both) and Carr Drive (South Bd.)       5616       9-3-1996
 
      (3)   Two-way stop intersections.
 
Intersection                             Ord. No.   Date Passed
Lincoln Street to Centreville Ave.       9279- 2024 5-20-2024
North Florida and East B Street          9136-2023  3-20-2023
Rear of 3006 W. Main Street              8888-2020  11-16-2020
S. 1st Street and W. Washington Street   7875       7-6-2015
S. Charles Street and E. Garfield Street 9222- 2023 11-20-2023
W. Lincoln Street and S. 8th Street      7896       10-5-2015
 
(1960 Code, Ch. 52, Schd. C-1)
   (D)   School stop intersections.
      (1)   In accordance with §
70.040 of this traffic code, the following intersections are designated school
stop intersections and drivers of vehicles approaching such intersections shall
stop during the hours indicated, unless otherwise directed by a police officer
or traffic-control signal:
   7:30 a.m. to 9:00 a.m.
   11:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.
   3:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.
School Stop Intersection
School              Stop Intersection
Abraham Lincoln     North Belt, Royal Heights Road and N. 37th Street
                    8600 W. Main Street
                    Bunsen Douglas Avenue and Sycamore Street
Blessed Sacrament   N. Oak Street and E. “D” Street
                    Walnut Street and E. “D” Street
                    Walnut Street and Sycamore Street
Cathedral           Harrison Street and S. 3rd Street
                    W. Lincoln and S. 3rd Street
                    S. High Street and E. Lincoln Street
Central Junior High S. Illinois Street and Harrison Street
                    S. Illinois Street and Lincoln Street
                    N. 46th Street and W. Main Street
Dewey               N. 47th Street and Bier Street
                    N. 48th Street and Bier Street
                    W. Main Street and 48th Street
Douglas             E. Main Street and Iowa Avenue
Harmony             W. Main Street and 75th Street
                    S. 11th Street and Union Avenue
                    Raab Avenue and S. 12th Street
Henry Raab          Raab Avenue and S. 13th Street
                    Union Avenue and S. 11th Street
                    Union Avenue and S. 13th Street
Humboldt            W. “C” Street and N. 8th Street
Jefferson           N. Charles Street and Lucinda Avenue
Junior High         Lincoln Street and Illinois Street
Roosevelt           Huff Street, Cleveland Avenue and State Street
St. Henry’s       53rd Street and W. Main Street
St. Mary’s        1716 W. Main Street
St. Teresa’s      Koerner Street and N. Church Street
                    S. 27th Street, S. 29th Street and W. Main Street
                    S. 28th Street and W. Main Street
Union               W. Main Street and 27th Street
                    W. Main Street near S. 28th Street
                    (pedestrian-activated school crossing signal)
                    Mascoutah Avenue and E. Garfield Street
Washington          S. Abend Street and E. Garfield Street
                    S. Charles Street and E. Garfield Street
 
      (2)   School stop signs; temporary. Jefferson School shall be able to
place a temporary stop sign on Lucinda and on LaSalle upon the following
conditions.
         (a)   The sign shall be in place no more than one hour before school
and no more than one hour after school.
         (b)   It shall be the responsibility of Jefferson School to place and
remove the sign.
(1960 Code, Ch. 52, Schd. C-2)
   (E)   Yield right-of-way intersections. In accordance with §
70.043 of this traffic code, drivers of vehicles shall yield the right-of-way
before entering the following designated intersections:
Right-of-Way Street Yield Street - (Direction) Ord. No. Date Passed
Right-of-Way Street     Yield Street - (Direction)      Ord. No.  Date Passed
Arabelle Drive          Nocturne Crt.                   4451
Arabelle Drive          Radiance Street (South)         5198
Arabelle Drive          Floridora (South)               5227      3-7-1994
Arabelle Drive          Peace Street (South)            5198
Blue Ridge Drive        Westfield Drive (Both)          4205
Blue Ridge Drive        Rosewood Drive (Both)           4326
Brentmoor Drive         Longview Drive (Both)           4299
Brittany Ln.            Sheraton Drive (Both)           5814      12-1-1997
Brookmeadow Drive       Brookhaven Drive (North side of 6769      8-15-2005
                        lake)
Carlyle Avenue          McClintock Avenue (East)        5092
Cedar Grove Drive       Greenleaf Circle                7903      11-2-2015
Celebration Park Circle Southwest corner facing west    7445      11-15-2010
Chaucer Drive           Bedford Drive (Both)            5089
Commercial              Dewey Street
Commons Parkway         Chestnut Grove Drive/Sparrow    7903      11-2-2015
                        Point Lane
Concord Drive           S. 97th Street                  5803      11-3-1997
Concord Drive           S. 98th Street                  5803      11-3-1997
Concord Drive           Glenvue Drive                   5803      11-3-1997
Dale Allen Drive        Chaucer
Delaware Avenue         Belle Street                    3722
Delaware Avenue         Scheel Street (Both)
Delaware Avenue         E. “C” Street               3043
Delaware Avenue         E. “D” Street               3962
Dublin Boulevard        Ring of Kerry                   6715      3-7-2005
E. “A” Street       Delmar Street                   4925A
E. “D” Street       N. Pennsylvania Avenue          4925A
E. “E” Street       N. Jackson Street (Both)        5324      10-3-1994
E. McKinley             Park Avenue (East Bd.)
E. Monroe Street        S. Jackson Street
E. Monroe Street        Survey Street                   5570      5-6-1996
Easthaven Drive         Sandwedge Drive                 5752
Empire Drive            Amann Drive (South)             5019
Erica Renee Drive       Sandwedge Drive                 5752
Forest Avenue           Garfield Street                 3470
Forest Avenue           Patterson Crt.                  4625
Gettysburg              High Forest                     6171      8-7-2000
Grant Street            Abend Street (North Bd.)        4276
Industrial Drive        Center Plaza                    6674      10-4-2004
Industrial Drive        Marsh Drive (Both)              5019
Kansas Avenue           E. “C” Street               4687
Lake Forest Drive       John Henry Street (South Bd.)   4148
LaSalle Street          Hecker Street                   3457
LaSalle Street          Dewey Street (Both)             5087
Lincoln Street          S. High Street
Longview Drive          Sheraton Drive                  5570      5-6-1996
Marsh Drive             Premier Drive (South)           5019
Mitchell Lane           Foley Drive (Both)              4524
N. 20th Street          W. “A” Street               7653      12-3-2012
N. 2nd Street           W. “A” Street
N. 2nd Street           W. “D” Street               3049
N. 30th Street          Vernier Street                  3927
N. 35th Street          “A” Street                  3327
N. 42nd Street          Jessie Street                   4697
N. 42nd Street          Oak Lane                        8249-2018 9-17-2018
N. 45th Street          Ammel Street                    3744
N. 5th Street           “D” Street
N. 5th Street           “H” Street
N. 6th Street           W. “D” Street               4925A
N. 8th Street           W. “A” Street (Both)
N. 66th Street          Grocery Store Parking Lot Exit  5515      2-19-1996
N. 70th Street          W. “B” Street               3707
N. 70th Street          W. “C” Street               3707
N. 72nd Street          W. “A” Street               3004
N. 82nd Street          Sherwood Forest                 4817
N. 82nd Street          “A” Street                  5274      7-5-1994
N. Charles Street       Clay Street                     4774
N. Charles Street       Benton Street
N. Charles Street       Dewey Street
N. Church Street        Benton Street
N. Church Street        Dewey Street
N. Church Street        Fremont Street
N. Church Street        Hecker Street
Orchard                 Dewey
Otto Street             Sahlender Street (Both)         7037      10-1-2007
Pennsylvania Avenue     E. “C” Street               3981
Portland Avenue         Olive Street
Rosewood Drive          Springdale Drive (Both)         6214      10-2-2000
S. 12th Street          W. Lincoln Street (Both)        5678      1-6-1997
S. 14th Street          State Street
S. 14th Street          Union Avenue
S. 17th Street          Bunsen Street                   3283
S. 18th Street          Bunsen Street (Both)            5088
S. 19th Street          Bunsen Street                   7265      6-2-2009
S. 1st Street           W. Garfield Street (Both)
S. 21st Street          Fairview Avenue                 4914
S. 21st Street          Meadows Avenue                  3760
S. 22nd Street          Meadow Drive                    4944
S. 52nd Street          Ruth Street (Both)              4312
S. 8th Street           Harrison Street                 7511      8-1-2011
S. 9th Street           W. Harrison Street              3109
S. Charles Street       E. Grant Street                 3017
S. Church Street        12th Street (South)             3434
S. Park Drive           N. 44th Street
S. Park Drive           N. 39th Street (Both)           5594      - -1996
S. Periwinkle Lane      On Periwinkle Ln. (South Bd.)   4553
Sahlender Street        Godfrey Street (South Bd.)      7037      10-1-2007
Sahlender Street        Mary Irene Street (South Bd.)   7037      10-1-2007
Scheel Street           Muren Street (West Bd.)         6351      12-3-2001
Sheraton Drive          Brentmoor Drive                 5678      1-6-1997
Sheridan Street         Stevens Street                  3021
Sheridan Street         Lisa Lane                       4403
Shirley Drive           N. 41st Street                  5707      3-17-1997
Springdale Drive        Willow Creek Road (Both)        4312
State Street            Street Clair Avenue
State Street            Blair Avenue
State Street            13th Street (Both)              5159
Threewood Drive         Sandwedge Drive                 5752
Union Avenue            12th Street
Vernier Avenue          N. 33rd Street                  6653      6-7-2004
Vicksburg Drive         Denvershire Drive (South Bd. -  5341      11-21-1994
                        North leg)
Virginia Avenue         Prairie Avenue                  3302
W. “A” Street       21st Street
W. “A” Street       N. 34th Street                  3457
W. Adams Street         Borman Avenue (North Bd.)       4016
W. Lincoln Street       S. 7th Street
W. Monroe Street        S. 3rd Street
Willow Creek Drive      Clearview (East Bd.)            6590      11-3-2003
Willow Creek Drive      Southgate Drive                 5768      8-4-1997
 
(1960 Code, Ch. 52, Schd. C-3) (Ord. 7950, passed 5-2-2016; Ord. 7956-2016,
passed 6-6-2016; Ord. 7965-2016, passed 6-27-2016; Ord. 8345, passed 6-17-2019;
Ord. 9250-2024, passed 2-20-2024; Ord. 9279-2024, passed 5-20-2024; Ord. 9306-
2024, passed 8-19-2024)
SCHEDULE III. ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   In accordance with §
70.041 of this traffic code, traffic shall move only in the direction indicated
upon the following streets and alleys:
Street (Direction) Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street (Direction) Location                                                                  Ord.  Date
                                                                                             No.   Passed
                  On an alley between W. “A” Street and N. 1st Street, traffic shall enter
                   the alley on W. “A” Street and proceed South and West to N. 1st Street
                   Alley North of Lebanon Avenue between Arthur Street and the Belleville
                  Swimming Pool parking lot shall be one way Eastbound at all times except  4999
                   for the period of time from the first Sunday in June until the first
                   Monday in September of each year when said alley shall be two way
                   On the alley at the rear of 8500 W. Main Street, traffic shall enter off
                  of S. 85th Street and proceed in a northwesterly direction only to S.
                   86th Street
                  S. 14th Street, southbound, from Illinois Central Gulf Railroad track to  3498
                   Lincoln Street
                   On the alley which lies south of the 300 block of E. Main Street and
                  extends from S. Church Street to S. Charles Street, traffic shall move    4833
                   one way in a westerly direction
                  Alley (North Bd.) from a point beginning at the north curb line of the E. 5586  5-20-
                   Main/Carlyle Intersection to 100 ft. north of said point                        1996
                  First alley (West Bd.) north of W. Washington Street from S. 22nd Street  5814  12-1-
                   to S. 23rd Street                                                               1997
                  Alley between S. 16th and 17th one way northbound from S. Belt West to    7499  6-6-
                   Franklin Avenue                                                                 2011
                  Alley between S. Douglas Avenue and Portland Avenue to become one-way,    7464  12-6-
                   north bound, from E. McKinley Street to Olive Street                            2010
                  Alley between S. Douglas Avenue and Portland Avenue to become one-way,    7464  12-6-
                   south bound, from E. McKinley to McClintock Avenue                              2010
“A” Street     From Oak Street to W. Main Street
(Westbd.)
Abend St. (North)  From Mascoutah Ave. to Garfield Street                                    8882- 10-19-
                                                                                             2020  2020
E. “E” Street  From N. Illinois Street to N. High Street
(Eastbd.)
LaSalle Street     From Lucinda Avenue to Arthur Street                                      4140
(Westbd.)
Lincoln Circle     Entire Street                                                             6418  5-6-
(Eastbd.)                                                                                          2002
lst Street         From “F” Street to Monroe Street
(Southbd.)
N. 16th Street     From W. “A” Street to W. “E” Street                               5746  6-16-
(Northbd.)                                                                                         1997
N. 45th Street     From W. Main Street to North Belt West
(Northbd.)
N. 49th Street     From W. Main Street to Bier Street
(Northbd.)
N. 4th Street      From W. Main Street to W. “A” Street
(Southbd.)
West “E” StreetFrom Rt. 159 to North 2nd Street                                          7965- 6-27-
                                                                                             2016  2016
W. “E” Street  From N. 16th Street to N. 15th Street                                     5746  6-16-
(Eastbd.)                                                                                          1997
W. “E” Street  From N. Illinois Street to N. 2nd Street                                  3148
(Westbd.)
W. Washington      From W. Main Street to Forest Avenue
Street (Eastbd.)
W. Washington      From S. 22nd Street to S. 23rd Street                                     4222
Street (Westbd.)
 
(1960 Code, Ch. 52, Schd. D)
SCHEDULE IV. SPECIFIC SPEED LIMITS.
   In accordance with §
73.16 of this traffic code, the following are determined to be designated speed
limits for reasonable and safe travel under conditions found to be existing
upon the specified thoroughfares:
   (A)   Fifteen mph.
 
Street          Location                             Ord. No. Date Passed
Prospect Street From N. Belt East to Freemont Street 3452
 
   (B)   Twenty mph.
Street Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street      Location                                                Ord.  Date
                                                                    No.   Passed
           Greenmount Manor Subdivision                            7539  11-7-
                                                                          2011
18th Street From Rte. 13 to Arnold Field.                           5112
Brentmoor   From Longview Drive to Pinecrest Circle                 7004  7-2-
Drive                                                                     2007
Cleveland   From the east property line of S. 5th Street to the
Avenue      west property line of S. 3rd Street (Projected)
(South)
E. “A”  From Douglas Avenue to the City Limits line             3302
Street
Forest      From McKinley Street to Monroe Street
Avenue
Forest Hill From Lebanon Avenue to Arthur Street                    3111
Drive
Garden      From Ill. Rte. 177 to McClintock                        5324  10-3-
Boulevard                                                                 1994
Granvue     From Signs to be installed along the easterly side of
Drive       the northerly 1,000 ft. of Granvue Drive
Maiden Lane From Wabash Avenue to Bel-Aire Drive
N. 30th     From W. Main Street to Sheridan Avenue                  7161  8-4-
Street                                                                    2008
Periwinkle  From Beginning to end                                   4485
Circle
Persimmon   Entire distance                                         7694  7-1-
Ridge Drive                                                               2013
S. 54th     From W. Main Street to Foley Drive                      6449  8-5-
Street                                                                    2002
W. Main     In front of St. Henry’s Grade School and Althoff High 4533
Street      School
Wabash      From Ill. Rte. 177 to Ill. Rte. 13.                     4566
Avenue
Westchester 7401 Westchester Dr. from S. 74th St. to Sheffield Dr.  9100- 11-21-
Drive                                                               2022  2022
Woodcrest   From Lebanon Road to the end of the street              4222
Drive
 
   (C)   Twenty-five mph.
Street Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street     Location                                                              Ord.  Date
                                                                                 No.   Passed
          Center Plaza                                                          4291
“A” StrFrom Oak Street to W. Main Street                                     3691
29th       Entire length                                                         3935
Street
Coolridge                                                                       3801
Drive
Cynthia                                                                         3801
Drive
E.
Washington From S. Illinois to Forest Avenue                                     3691
Street
Empire                                                                          4291
Drive
Garden     From Carlyle Avenue to Mascoutah Avenue                               4287
Boulevard
Industrial                                                                      4291
Drive
Lake
Forest     From State Street to John Henry Street                                4566
Drive
Lakeshore                                                                       3801
Drive
Marsh                                                                           4291
Drive
N. 37th    From Summit Avenue to Columbus Drive                                  4512
Street
N. 43rd    From Shirley Drive to N. Belt West                                    4697
Street
N. Charles From E. “E” Street to Sycamore Street                             4673
Street
           From E. “B” Street to Douglas Avenue, both sides at the following
N. Church  locations:
Street     Between “B” Street and “C” Street
           Near the intersection of “E” Street
           150 ft. south of the curve
N. Douglas From E. Main Street to Lebanon Avenue                                 3405
Avenue
Orchard    From West Boulevard to Carlyle Avenue                                 4410;
Drive                                                                            4124
Orchard    From North Belt Line to Freemont Street                               3067
Street
Premier                                                                         4291
Drive
Raab       From 11th Street to 19th Street                                       4455
Avenue
S. 16th    From S. Belt West to South City Limits                                3895
Street
Union      From Centreville Avenue to 14th Street                                4455
Avenue
W. Main    From S. 7th Street to 30th Street
Street
W. Main    From 41st Street to 50th Street
Street
W. Main    From Public Square to 30th Street, excepting existing school zone     7725  11-4-
Street                                                                                 2013
W.
Washington From Main Street to S. Illinois Street                                3691
Street
W. Wood    From N. 17th Street to a point 725 ft. west                           4673
Drive
 
   (D)   Thirty mph.
 
Street         Location                                 Ord. No. Date Passed
W. Main Street From Public Square to 7th Street, except 3314
               for existing school zones
 
   (E)   Thirty-five mph.
 
Street         Location                                    Ord. No. Date Passed
W. Main Street From 28th Street to the city limits, except 3314
               for existing school zones
 
   (F)   Forty mph.
 
Street      Location        Ord. No. Date Passed
Amann Drive Entire distance 5225     2-21-1994
 
   (G)   Forty-five mph.
 
Street         Location                               Ord. No. Date Passed
N. 57th Street From W. Main Street to Illinois Street 3089
               Route 161
 
(1960 Code, Ch. 52, Schd. H)
SCHEDULE V. PROHIBITED TRUCK ROUTES.
   In accordance with §
73.25 of this traffic code, trucks are prohibited on the following streets:
Street Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street             Location                               Ord. No.  Date Passed
14th Street        From South of the loading dock for the 6406      4-1-2002
                   remainder of S. 14th Street
Abend Street       From Mascoutah Avenue to Rte. 13
Carbon Street      From W. Main Street to S. 95th Street  7037      10-1-2007
E. Monroe Street   From E. Main Street to Mascoutah       4533
                   Avenue
Garden Boulevard   From McClintock Street to Mascoutah    5225      2-21-1994
                   Avenue
Grand Avenue       From E. Main Street to N. Douglas      4398
                   Street
Kil Mar Woods      Entire length                          8193-2018 4-16-2018
McKinley Street    From Mascoutah Avenue to McClintock    4398
                   Avenue
Orchard Drive      From West Boulevard To Sherman Street  6238      12-4-2000
                   (Rte. 161)
Patterson Court    Entire length                          6406      4-1-2002
Perriwinkle Circle Entire length                          5274      7-5-1994
S. 9th Street      From Main Street to Monroe Street      6164      7-3-2000
S. 11th Street     From West Main to South Belt West      8275-2018 11-19-2018
S. Virginia        From Garden Boulevard to McClintock    5341      11-21-1994
State Street       From S. 11th Street to S. 14th Street  5324      10-3-1994
 
(1960 Code, Ch. 52, Schd. J)
SCHEDULE VI. LOAD LIMITS.
   In accordance with the provisions of 625 ILCS and §§
72.14 and
73.26 of this traffic code, the following load limits are established:
Street - Limit Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street - Limit               Location                      Ord. No. Date Passed
Allsup Road (8,000 lbs.)     From Ill. Rt. 15 to Town Hall 5468     10-2-1995
                             Road
Beth Ann Drive (9,500 lbs.)  Entire Distance               4276
Denvershire (9,500 lbs.)     Entire Distance               5395     3-20-1995
Douglas Avenue (30,000 lbs.) From Illinois Street to       4437
                             Lebanon Avenue
Garden Boulevard (8,000      From Garden Boulevard to      4889
lbs.)                        McClintock Drive
McClintock Avenue (8,000     From Carlyle Avenue to        2978
lbs.)                        Mascoutah Road
N. 39th Street (8,000        From Main Street to N. Belt
pounds)                      West
N. 43rd Street (16,000       Entire Street                 2963
pounds)
Old Dutch Hollow Road (6,000 From Winslow Road to the city 4245
pounds)                      limits
Sheridan Street              From 27th to 28th Streets     4118
State Street Road (36,000    From Belt Line to City Limits 3967
pounds)
Wabash Avenue (30,000 lbs.)  From Rte. 177 to Rte. 13      5313     9-19-1994
Washington Street (8,000     From 16th to 17th Streets
pounds)
 
(1960 Code, Ch. 52, Schd. L, P)
SCHEDULE VII. DESIGNATED SNOW ROUTES.
Street From To
Street                From                 To
Centreville Avenue    Rte. 13              W. Washington Street
Dapron Road           N. 57th Street       W. Park Drive
E. “A” Street     Rte. 159             Oak Street
E. Lincoln Street     Rte. 159             Mascoutah Avenue
E. Main Street        Rte. 159             Rte. 161
E. Park Drive         W. Park Drive        Memorial Drive
E. Washington Street  Rte. 159             Forest Avenue
Forest Avenue         E. Washington Street E. Main Street
Harrison Street       Rte. 159             S. 3rd Street
Lebanon Avenue        Rte. 159             Old Collinsville Road
Mascoutah Avenue      E. Main Street       McClintock Avenue
McClintock Avenue     Mascoutah Avenue     Carlyle Avenue
Memorial Drive        E. Park Drive        Royal Heights Road
N. 17th Street (East) W. Main Street       “H” Street
N. 17th Street (West) W. Main Street       N. 28th Street
N. 28th Street        W. Main Street       N. 17th Street
N. 37th Street                             
N. 42nd Street                             
N. 44th Street                             
N. 48th Street        W. Main Street       W. Park Drive
N. Douglas Avenue     Rte. 159             E. Main Street
N. Pennsylvania       E. “B” Street    E. “C” Street
Oak Street            E. “A” Street    E. Main Street
Rte. 159              Rte. 13              “J” Street
S. 17th Street        W. Main Street       Rte. 13
S. 29th Street                             
W. “A” Street     Rte. 159             W. Main Street
W. Main Street        Rte. 159             Rte. 157
W. Park Drive         N. 48th Street       E. Park Drive
W. Washington Street  Rte. 159             W. Main Street
 
(1960 Code, Ch. 52, Schd. Q) (Ord. 5192, passed - -; Am. Ord. 9385-2025, passed
5-19-2025)
SCHEDULE VIII. TURNING MOVEMENTS.
   (A)   General. In accordance with the provisions of §
70.044 of this traffic code, the following are hereby declared to be “no right
turns on RED” streets or intersections:
 
Street                Street with Restricted Turns  Ord. No. Date Passed
                      (Direction)
N. 37th Street (Both) At W. Main Street (Both)      5616     9-3-1996
W. Main Street        At N. 28th Street (South Bd.) 4016
 
(1960 Code, Ch. 52, Schd. R)
   (B)   U-turns. In accordance with the provisions of §
70.044 of this traffic code, at the following intersections, “U” turns shall be
prohibited:
 
Street         Street                  Ord. No. Date Passed
N. Belt West   At Friendly Drive       4570
W. Main Street At W. Washington Street 4410
W. Main Street At S. 6th Street        4437
 
(1960 Code, Ch. 52, Schd. U)
CHAPTER 76: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   No parking zones
   
II.   No parking at specified times; limited parking
   
III.   Special hourly parking
   
IV.   Loading zones
   
V.   Parking meter zones
   
VI.   Off-street parking zones
   
VII.   Persons with disabilities parking
   
VIII.   Angle parking areas
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING AREAS.
   In accordance with §
74.14 of this traffic code, no person shall park a vehicle at any time at any
of the following places:
Street (Side) Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street (Side)                         Location                                                                             Ord.  Date
                                                                                                                           No.   Passed
“A” Street (Both)                 From N. Illinois Street to Walnut Street                                             4995
“A” Street (Both)                 400 block                                                                            3978
“A” Street (South)                From Illinois Street to 2nd Street                                                   3647;
                                                                                                                           4995
1841 E. Belle Street (North)          From a distance of 43 ft.                                                            3131
70th Street (Both)                    From a point 75 ft. north of the centerline of W. Main Street south to W. Main       3867
                                      Street
78th Street (Both)                    Entire Street                                                                        3692
Abend Street (East)                   From 35 ft. south of Mascoutah Avenue
Abend Street (West)                   From 30 ft. from the south curb line of Lincoln Street
Abraham Court                         East of Abraham Ct. for 70 ft. on the south side of Gettysburg                       9098- 11-21-
                                                                                                                           2022  2022
Ann Street (West)                     From Grant Street north 80 ft.                                                       4264
Annex Street (West)                   From 100 ft. from northwest corner of Annex/ McKinley to end of street               7676A 4-15-
                                                                                                                                 2013
Arabelle Drive (North)                From Damask Court to Vogue Drive                                                     7497  6-6-
                                                                                                                                 2011
Belle Valley Industrial Park (Both)                                                                                       6672A 8-16-
                                                                                                                                 2004
Belleville Crossing (Both)            Entire Street                                                                        7518  9-6-
                                                                                                                                 2011
Bellevue Park (West)                  West side of the drive through the park which connects N. 49th Street with W. Park
                                      Drive
Bellevue Park Drive (North)           From Front of new apartment buildings
Bellevue Place (North)                From Park Drive to E. Park Drive                                                     5463
Ben Louis Drive (North)               From the driveway at 46 Ben Louis Drive 150 ft. in a westerly direction to the       5928  11-2-
                                      existing right-of-way                                                                      1998
Ben Louis Drive (South)               From the driveway at 49 Ben Louis Drive 185 ft. in a westerly direction              5928  11-2-
                                                                                                                                 1998
Bier Street (Both)                    From 47th to 48th Street                                                             3258
Bier Street (South)                   From 47th Street to 48th Street                                                      3262
Bristow Street (Northeast)            From Church Street to a point 173 northwest                                          4817
                                      From a distance 144 ft. from the north curb line of Lebanon Avenue at its                  11-21-
Bristow Street (Southwest)            intersection with southerly curb line of Bristow Street to a point 190 ft. from the  5341  1994
                                      same intersecting curb lines
Canterbury Drive (East)               From South curb line of N. Belt West to a point 215 ft. south of said point          5699  2-17-
                                                                                                                                 1997
Canterbury Drive (West)               From Belle Avenue to Laurette Lane
Carbon Street (Southwest)             From a point 344 ft. southeast of 95th Street to a point 409 ft. southeast of 95th
                                      Street
Carlyle Avenue (Both)                 From Garden Avenue to Sherman Street                                                 4057;
                                                                                                                           4271
Carlyle Avenue (North)                From 10 ft. east of south curb line of Carlyle Avenue, to 170 ft. east
Carlyle Avenue (South)                From E. Main Street 170 ft. east                                                     4171
Catawba Avenue (East)                 From W. “E” Street, 225 ft. north
Cathedral Lane (East)                 From Harrison Street to W. Monroe Street
Cathedral Lane (West)                 From W. Monroe Street to Garfield Street                                             5594  - -
                                                                                                                                 1996
Center Plaza, (Both)                  From State Route 177 to Industrial Drive                                             3208
Centreville Avenue                    No truck parking between Mobile Station Driveways at 321 Centreville Avenue          3141
Centreville Avenue (East)             From Lincoln Street to Dintleman Avenue                                              3250
Centreville Avenue (North)            From State Street, 100 ft. northeast
Centreville Avenue (South)            From State Street, 25 ft. northeast
Centreville Avenue (South)            From Monroe Street to the railroad tracks
Centreville Avenue (West)             From Monroe Street to Dintleman Avenue                                               3250
Centreville Avenue (West)             From Monroe Street to a point 50 ft. north                                           3434
Centreville Avenue (West)             From W. Lincoln Street to W. Monroe Street                                           5999  7-6-
                                                                                                                                 1999
Church Street                         West side of the 100 block of North Church Street 64 feet north of intersection East 9206- 10-16-
                                      A Street and North Church Street to a point 100 feet from intersection               2023  202 3
Clayton Court (North)                 From 74th Street to Bogey Drive                                                      4032
Cleveland Avenue (South)              From State Street to S. 6th Street
Cleveland Avenue (South)              From S. Illinois Street to the easterly end of the bridge across Richland Creek
Courthouse (Southwest quadrant)       No parking contiguous street side                                                    3141
Dalton Drive (Both)                   From Centerline of Frank Scott Parkway West going 148 ft. east (No parking here to   7296  8-3-
                                      corner)                                                                                    2009
Dapron Drive (Both)                   From N. Park Drive to N. 57th Street                                                 3358
Delaware Avenue (Both)                From Muren Street and “D” Street
Delmar Avenue (West)                  From a point 50 ft. south of south curb line of “C” Street to a point 190 ft. sou5852  3-16-
                                                                                                                                 1998
Devonshire Drive (West)               From Guardrail to a point 52 ft. south of said guardrail                             5515  2-19-
                                                                                                                                 1996
Dewey Street (South)                  From Lebanon Avenue west 30 ft.                                                      5603  7-15-
                                                                                                                                 1996
Donna Drive (Both)                    From Rear entrance of the fire station to the intersection of N. 17th Street         4625;
                                                                                                                           4636
Douglas Avenue (Both)                 From N. Illinois Street to Lebanon Avenue                                            4337
Douglas Avenue (South)                From E. Main Street east to “No Parking to Corner” sign
E. “A” Street                     From the alley running north and south between E. “A” and E. “B” Street      6869  5-1-
                                                                                                                                 2006
E. “A” Street                     1300 East A Street on east side of Florida from East A Street extending to a point   9260- 3-18-
                                      75 feet south                                                                        2024  2024
E. “A” Street (Both)              From No parking here to corner 140 ft. from Sherman                                  6724  4-4-
                                                                                                                                 2005
E. “A” Street (South)             From a point 110 ft. east of the east curb line of N. Pennsylvania Avenue to a point 3314
                                      140 ft. east of the curb line
E. “A” Street (South)             From Oak Street to Walnut Street                                                     3647
E. “B” Street                     In front of Unity Church at the corner of E. “B” Street and Michigan Street
E. “B” Street                     From the alley running north and south between E. “A” Street and E. “B” Stree6869  5-1-
                                                                                                                                 2006
E. “B” Street (Both)              From East and west curb of Charles Street, 60 ft. west
E. “B” Street (Both)              From Sherman Street (Ill. Rt. 161) to West Boulevard                                 3855
E. “B” Street (Both)              From N. Oak Street to a point 50 ft. west                                            4085
E. “B” Street (Both)              From Walnut Street west curb line to a point 25 ft. west of same                     3127
E. “B” Street (North)             From 50 ft. east; 50 ft. west from N. Church Street
E. “B” Street (North)             From N. Belt East to a point 75 ft. east                                             3302
E. “B” Street (North)             From N. Oak Street to a point 50 ft. east                                            4085
E. “B” Street (North)             From Jackson Street to 60 ft. east
E. “B” Street (North)             From Delaware to Rte. 161. The triangle located in the intersection of 5th and “F3290
                                      Streets
E. “B” Street (South)             From N. Charles Street to Douglas Avenue
E. “B” Street (South)             From the alley west of Douglas Street to a point 31 ft. west of said alley           5514  2-5-
                                                                                                                                 1996
E. “B” Street (South)             From the alley west of Iowa Avenue to the L&N Railroad tracks                        3452
E. “B” Street (South)             The 300 block
E. “B” Street (South)             From the east right-of-way line of the Metro Link right-of-way and proceeding 375    5904  9-8-
                                      ft. to the east to the western property line at 1220 E. “B” Street                     1998
E. “B” Street (South)             From Delaware Avenue to N. Belt East                                                 3744
E. “B” Street (South)             From a point 172 ft. east of the east curb line of N. Jackson Street, to a point 219 4792
                                      ft. east
E. “B” Street (South)             From N. Jackson Street to a point 175 ft. east                                       3484
E. “B” Street (South)             From East side of 308 E. “B” Street driveway
E. “B” Street (South)             From the alley west of Douglas to a point 31 ft. west of said alley                  5514  2-5-
                                                                                                                                 1996
E. “C” Street (North)             From the west curb line of Douglas Avenue, to a point 146 ft. of said curb line      3381
E. “C” Street (North)             From N. High Street to N. Jackson Street                                             4889
E. “C” Street (North)             From N. Illinois Street east 30 ft.
E. “C” Street (South)             From N. Jackson to N. Charles Street
E. “C” Street (South)             From Delmar Avenue to Douglas Avenue                                                 3283
E. “D” Street (North)             30 ft. from Illinois Street
E. “D” Street (North)             From Walnut Street, 300 ft. east
E. “D” Street (South)             From Walnut Street, 50 ft. east                                                      3109
E. “D” Street (South)             From 15 ft. east of N. Illinois, Street to 55 ft. east                               4338
E. “D” Street (South)             From a point 50 ft. west of Oak Street to corner of Oak Street
E. Adams Street                       100 block of East Adams on south side of the street between alley and South Jackson  9249- 2-20-
                                                                                                                           2024  2024
E. Adams Street (North)               From S. Illinois Street to a point 75 ft. east                                       3168
E. Adams Street (North)               From 61 ft. west of Survey Street                                                    5905  9-8-
                                                                                                                                 1998
E. Grant Street (North)               From Ann Street to a point 53 ft. west                                               4547
E. Lincoln Street                     From Abend and S. Charles Street, 15 ft. from the alley on both sides                3583
E. Lincoln Street (South)             From the south property line of the alley located between S. Church Street and S.    3118
                                      Charles Street for a distance of 30 ft.
E. Lincoln Street (South)             From a point 17 ft. west of the alley, between Jackson and Church Street, and a      4326
                                      point 42 ft. west of the alley
E. Main Street (Both)                 From 3rd Street to Charles Street, except at areas designated by parking meters or   3127
                                      other signs designating permissible parking areas
E. Main Street (Both)                 From High Street, 50 ft. east and west
E. Main Street (Both)                 From Spruce Drive to a point 195 ft. east                                            5028
E. Main Street (Both)                 From Sherman Street to Spruce Street                                                 4471
E. Main Street (North)                From the west curb line of N. Pennsylvania to a point 159 ft. from said curb line    5768  8-4-
                                                                                                                                 1997
E. Main Street (North)                From Douglas Avenue east to first alley
E. Main Street (North)                From a point 165 ft. west of N. Oak Street to a point 232 ft. west of N. Oak Street  6518  3-3-
                                                                                                                                 2003
E. Main Street (North)                From Missouri Avenue to the first alley west of Missouri Avenue
E. Main Street (North)                From Oak Street to M.E. Church
E. Main Street (North)                From Virginia Avenue to 144 ft. west                                                 5850  3-2-
                                                                                                                                 1998
E. Main Street (North)                From a point beginning at the west curbline of Virginia Avenue to a point 65 ft.     5586  5-20-
                                      west of said point                                                                         1996
E. Main Street (North)                From Virginia Avenue east 160 ft.                                                    5086
E. Main Street (South)                From Forest Avenue to a point 37 ft. east                                            4981
E. Main Street (South)                From Oak Street to Forest Avenue                                                     3141
E. Main Street (South)                From Lobby entrance of Imperial Motel, 35 ft. east
E. Main Street (South)                From Virginia Avenue to Carlyle Avenue
E. Main Street (South)                From a point beginning at the west curbline of Virginia Avenue to a point 65 ft.     5586  5-20-
                                      west of said point                                                                         1996
                                      One sign to be placed along the easterly curb line of Douglas Avenue at a distance
E. Main Street and Douglas Avenue     of 25 ft. southerly from the southerly curb line of East Main Street; another sign
intersection, (southeast quadrant)    to be placed along the curb line of Monroe Street at a distance of 25 ft. easterly
                                      from the east line of Douglas Avenue
E. McKinley Street (Both)             From Prairie Avenue to the Treatment Plant                                           4427
E. McKinley Street (East)             From 50 ft. from northeast curb line of Mascoutah Avenue, to corner                  3067
E. Monroe Street (South)              From S. Illinois Street to S. High Street                                            6308
E. Park Drive (Both)                  In the 300 and 400 block                                                             3370;
                                                                                                                           3352
E. Park Drive (West)                  From Memorial Drive to N. Park Drive                                                 3552
E. Van Buren Street (North)           From a point 20 ft. east of Caroline Street                                          5603  7-15-
                                                                                                                                 1996
E. Washington Street (North)          From Mascoutah Avenue to Forest Avenue
E. Washington Street (North)          From a point 109 ft. west of Jackson Street, to a point 143 ft. west of the same     3265
E. Washington Street (South)          From Mascoutah Avenue to 40 ft. east of the east curb line                           3203
E. Washington Street (South)          From Charles Street to Mascoutah Avenue                                              4222
Emma Street (West)                    From Cleveland north 87 ft. - no parking here to corner                              7445  11-15-
                                                                                                                                 2010
Empire Drive (Both)                   From Industrial Drive to end to street                                               3208
Fairway Drive                         From Golf Course Drive                                                               6869  5-1-
                                                                                                                                 2006
Florida Avenue (East)                 From E. “B” Street to a point 71 ft. south                                       4485
Foley Drive (C.H. 42) (Both)          From a point 300 ft. southerly of the centerline of W. Main Street, northerly to W.  3867
                                      Main Street
Forest Avenue (West)                  From E. Monroe Street to E. Adams Street                                             7327  11-2-
                                                                                                                                 2009
Freeburg Avenue                       From S. Belt Line to E. McKinley Street
Freeburg Avenue (East)                From E. Grant Street north 25 ft.                                                    4524
Freeburg Avenue (East)                From a point 160 ft. south of Grant Street to a point 225 ft. south                  4684
Freeburg Avenue (East)                From the edge of the building at the truck dock for 100 ft. going south              7549  12-5-
                                                                                                                                 2011
Freeburg Avenue (West)                From Monroe Street to Adams Street                                                   3265
Friendly Drive (West)                 From N. Belt West to first intersection south                                        4100
Fulton Street (South)                 From Mascoutah Avenue, 150 ft. west
Garden Boulevard (West)               From S. Missouri Avenue south 100 ft.                                                5037
Garfield Street (North)               From a point 134 west of S. Church Street to a point 170 ft. west                    4848
Garfield Street (South)               From S. Charles Street to Abend Street                                               4451
Gatewood Court, (South & West)        From S. 59th Street to the southerly property line of apartment parking lot
George Street (Northwest)             From the north curb line of E. Adams to a point 140 ft. northeast of said curb line  4999
Gettysburg Drive (Both)               From Southwest curb line of Gettysburg and Fourscore 195 ft. in a southeasterly      5928  11-2-
                                      direction from the driveway of 38 Fourscore 180 ft. in a northwestwardly direction         1998
Gettysburg Road (Both)                From Frank Scott Parkway West east to the first intersection                         6803  12-5-
                                                                                                                                 2005
Glenview (West)                       From 65 ft. from W. Main Street going south                                          6563  9-2-
                                                                                                                                 2003
Haggard Street (Both)                 From Wabash Place to Haggard Street                                                  3168
Hecker Street (Both)                  From Alley between Lebanon Avenue and Lee Street northwest to end of Hecker Street
Hecker Street (Northeast)             From Lebanon Avenue, 100 ft. north-westerly
Hecker Street (West)                  From Lebanon Avenue to the alley
Hickman Drive (North)                 From Jackson Street, 100 ft. east
High Street (East)                    From “A” Street to Washington Street
Highforest Drive (East)               From Memorial Drive to Presidents Way                                                4999
Huff Street (Northwest)               From Union Avenue to a point 178 ft. northwest of said intersection                  4861
Huff Street (Southeast)               From State Street southwest 187 ft.                                                  4995
Ill. Rte. 13 (Both)                   From 108 ft. west of 7th Street to 119 ft. east of 10th Street                       4922
Ill. Rte. 161 (Both)                  From Western city limits to Eastern city limits                                      4823
Ill. Rte. 161 (FAP Route 805)         From Both sides from the City’s West City Limits East to the City’s East City Lim5454
Illinois Rt. 13 (Both)                From 74th Street to F.A.U. 9257                                                      4457
Illinois Rt. 161 (Both)               From Northwesterly City limits to easterly City limits                               4838;
                                                                                                                           5454
Illinois Rt. 177                      No parking or stopping on the shoulder between Premier and Green Mount Road          7357  2-16-
                                                                                                                                 2010
Illinois Street (Both)                From “B” Street to Washington Street                                             3149
Industrial Drive                                                                                                          3694
Iowa Avenue (Both)                    From “B” Street to a point 60 ft. south                                          4366
Ivanhoe Court (West)                  From Sign to be installed 50 ft. north of the north edge of the N. Belt pavement and 3038
                                      a second sign installed 200 ft. from same pavement edge
Jackson Street (Both)                 From E. Main Street, 25 ft. north and south
Jackson Street (West)                 From E. “D” Street north 30 ft.                                                  5077
Juanita Place (West)                  From 30 ft. from south curb line of driveway for #9 Juanita Place to 60 ft. south of 7603  6-4-
                                      same curb line                                                                             2012
Kil-Mar Drive (West)                  Where Kil-Mar Drive crosses the parking lot
Koerner Street (South)                From N. Charles Street to the alley                                                  4451
Koerner Street (West)                 From Lebanon Avenue 100 ft. north
Kretschmer Street (West)              From W. “D” Street to W. “C” Street                                          4398
Laderman Park, Main Road, (Both)      3563
Lakeshore Drive (North)               From State Street to a point 600 ft. east                                            3801
LaSalle Street (West)                 From Sherman Street north 75 ft.
Lebanon Avenue                        From Alley east of N. Illinois Street, to the east curb line of N. Illinois Street   3118
Lebanon Avenue (Both)                 From Sherman Avenue to City limits                                                   4427
Lebanon Avenue (South)                From Koerner Street 50 ft. east
Lebanon Avenue (South)                From a point 200 ft. east to the east line of Koerner Street to a point 340 ft. east 3495
                                      of the curb line
Lebanon Avenue (South)                From Koerner Street 50 ft. east                                                      6255
Lebanon Avenue (South)                From a point 200 ft. east to the east line of Koerner Street to a point 340 ft. east 6255
                                      of the curb line
Lebanon Avenue (South)                From 50 ft. west of Sherman Street to 50 ft. west                                    6255
Lee Street (East)                     From Koerner Street 50 ft. east
Lincoln Street (North)                From S. Illinois Street to a point 100 ft. east                                      3296
Lincoln Street (North)                From Church Street to a point 50 ft. west
Lincoln Street (South)                From S. 1st Street to a point 120 ft. west                                           3694
Lincoln Street (South)                From Illinois Street to a point 250 ft. east
Lincoln Street (South)                From S. 3rd Street to a point 20 ft. east                                            3018
Lincoln Street (South)                From a point 15 ft. east of S. 16th Street to a point 70 ft. east
Llewelyn Road (Both)                  From Dutch Hollow Road to L&N Railroad tracks                                        4562
Logan Street (Northwest)              From State Street curb northeast 99 ft.                                              5028
Lucinda Avenue (East)                 From Scheel Street to Charles Street                                                 4222
Mallard Drive (East)                  From the south curb line of West Boulevard to a point 575 ft. south of said curb     5678  1-6-
                                      line                                                                                       1997
Marlo Drive (Both)                    From N. 17th Street to a point 500 ft. west                                          4173
Marsh Drive                                                                                                               3694
Marsh Drive (North)                   From Here to corner for 30 ft. going east from Cool Valley Drive                     6756  7-18-
                                                                                                                                 2005
Mascoutah Avenue (East)               From 148 ft. south of E. Washington Street and 66 ft. north of Mascoutah Avenue      6714  - -
                                                                                                                                 2005
Mascoutah Avenue (East)               From E. Main Street and Washington Street
Mascoutah Avenue (East)               From Garfield Street north to driveway (60 ft.)                                      6599  12-1-
                                                                                                                                 2003
Mascoutah Avenue (North)              From the northerly curb line of E. McKinley Street north 25 ft.
Mascoutah Avenue (South)              From McKinley Street to McClintock Avenue                                            4610
Mascoutah Avenue (South)              Where the jog exists at the intersection of Lincoln and Abend Streets
Mascoutah Road (Both)                 From McClintock Avenue to Green Mount Road                                           4603
Mascoutah Road (West)                 From McKinley Street to McClintock Avenue                                            5228  3-7-
                                                                                                                                 1994
McClintock Avenue (South)             From Missouri Avenue to Mascoutah Avenue
McKinley Street (South)               From S. Illinois Street, 90 ft. east
                                      1 sign 5 ft. west of the west edge of the parking lot driveway of the Memorial
Memorial Drive (North)                Hospital Convalescent Center; a second sign 5 ft. west of the west edge of the       3148
                                      service driveway of the aforesaid center; and the third sign 5 ft. east of the curb
                                      line of Oak Shadow Drive
Memorial Drive (North)                At Hospital service entrance as designated by signs 50 ft. apart                     3134
Michigan Avenue and E. “A” Street From Michigan Avenue to 25 ft. east on the north side of E. “A” Street and from  3083
intersection                          Michigan Avenue to 25 ft. west on the south side of E. “A” Street
Mitchell Lane (Both)                  Signs to be located on the southwesterly side of the office building of the Shrine
                                      of Our Lady of the Snows
Monroe Street (North)                 From S. Charles Street to Abend Street                                               4451
Mt. Pleasant (Both)                   From 57th Street to Dutch Hollow Road                                                5313  9-19-
                                                                                                                                 1994
Muren Boulevard (West)                From Sherman Street east 133 ft.                                                     4673
N. 11th Street (East)                 From Main Street north 50 ft.                                                        3203
N. 12th Street (West)                 From W. Main Street and W. “A” Street
N. 13th Street (East)                 From Main Street to a point 30 ft. north of Main Street                              3691
N. 14th Street (East)                 From W. “A” Street to Southern Railroad Tracks
N. 14th Street (East)                 From W. Main Street 30 ft. north
N. 14th Street (East)                 From South curb line of W. “A” Street to a point 125 ft. south of said curb line 3418
N. 14th Street (West)                 From W. Main Street W. “A” Street
N. 15th Street (East)                 From “A” Street to “E” Street
N. 15th Street (West)                 From “E” Street south 50 ft.                                                     3258
N. 16th Street (East)                 From W. “A” Street to W. “E” Street                                          5445  8-7-
                                                                                                                                 1995
N. 17th Street (East)                 From W. Main Street to alley
N. 17th Street (West)                 From W. Main Street, 50 ft. north
N. 18th Street                        From a point 75 ft. north of the north curbline of W. Main Street, to a point of 110 4750
                                      ft. north of said curbline
N. 18th Street (West)                 From a point 131 ft. north to 175 ft. north of W. Main Street                        5028
N. 18th Street (West)                 From W. Main Street North 51 ft.                                                     5048
N. 1st Street (Both)                  From 30 ft. north from the north curb line of W. Main Street                         4823
N. 1st Street (East)                  From Municipal parking lot located between N. Illinois Street and N. 1st Street      3111
N. 1st Street (West)                  From 15 ft. north of W. “A” Street to 90 ft. north of the north curb line
N. 1st Street (West)                  From the northeast property line of Street Paul’s Church, 75 ft. south
N. 1st Street (West)                  From the corner of W. “D” Street to a point 50 ft. south of said corner except   3691
                                      Sundays
                                      From 2 signs with legend, “No Parking Between Signs”, 1 sign to be located 10 ft.
N. 20th Street (East)                 north of the north curb line of W. Main Street, and another sign 50 ft. north of the
                                      north curb line of W. Main Street
N. 20th Street (West)                 From W. Main Street to the first alley north of W. Main Street
N. 23rd Street (East)                 From W. Main Street and W. “A” Street
N. 24th Street (West)                 From W. Main Street to the first alley north
N. 28th Street (Both)                 From W. Main Street to 17th Street                                                   3718
N. 29th Street (West)                 From W. Main Street to Verne Avenue                                                  4222
N. 2nd Street (Both)                  From Railroad tracks to “F” Street                                               6363  12-17-
                                                                                                                                 2001
N. 2nd Street (Both)                  From 50 ft. north of the bridge and 80 ft. south of the bridge                       5958  3-1-
                                                                                                                                 1999
N. 2nd Street (West)                  From W. “A” Street south curb line, south 45 ft.                                 4140
N. 2nd Street (West)                  Monday through Saturday at 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. from a point 63 ft. north of curb   7567  2-6-
                                      line on W. Main Street to a point 106 ft. north of curb line of W. Main Street             2012
N. 32nd Street (West)                 From Main Street to the first alley north of Main Street                             3895
N. 32nd Street (West)                 From Putnam Avenue to a point 100 ft. south of Putnam Avenue                         3630
N. 34th Street (East)                 From W. Main Street to first alley north                                             3258
N. 34th Street (East)                 From W. “A” Street and Vernier Avenue                                            4904
N. 34th Street (East)                 From Alley to W. “A” Street                                                      6502  1-21-
                                                                                                                                 2003
N. 34th Street (West)                 From the south line of the alley north of W. Main Street to a point 48 ft. south of  3428
                                      the alley line
N. 35th Street (Both)                 From W. Main Street to W. “A” Street                                             5984  5-17-
                                                                                                                                 1999
N. 35th Street (West)                 From W. Main Street east 60 ft.                                                      5603  7-15-
                                                                                                                                 1996
N. 36th Street (East)                 From W. Main Street to Lisa Lane
N. 37th Street                        Southwest quadrant of the intersection with Columbus Drive
N. 37th Street (East)                 From N. Belt west to a point 220 ft. south                                           4684
N. 37th Street (West)                 From Main Street to the alley north of Main Street                                   3295
N. 37th Street                        From Summit Avenue to Columbus Drive; anytime on both sides of the street            9382- 5-19-
                                                                                                                           2025  2025
N. 38th Street (East)                 From W. Main Street to first alley north                                             3155
N. 38th Street (West)                 From W. Main Street to a point 48 ft. northeast                                      4673
N. 39th Street (West)                 From N. Belt West north 815 ft.                                                      3505
N. 39th Street (West)                 From Point 115 ft. north of N. Belt West to a point 815 ft. north                    3505
N. 3rd Street (East)                  From W. “C” Street and W. “D” Street
N. 3rd Street (East)                  From “A” Street to a point 170 ft. north                                         3630
N. 3rd Street (East)                  From W. Main Street 25 ft. north
N. 3rd Street (West)                  From most northerly switch track of the Southern Railroad in a northerly direction
                                      for a distance of 300 ft.
N. 3rd Street (West)                  From the north curb line of W. “B” Street, extended to a point 30 ft. north of sa3845
                                      curb line
N. 3rd Street (West)                  From W. Main Street to 170 ft. north of W. “A” Street’s north curb line        3376
N. 3rd Street (West)                  From the north curb line of W. “C” Street to a point 170 ft. north of said curb l3370
N. 40th Street (Both)                 From N. Belt West to North Street                                                    3835
N. 40th Street (East)                 From 100 ft. from the northerly edge of the pavement of the N. Belt Line
N. 40th Street (East)                 From W. Main Street to first alley north                                             3208
N. 41st Street (Both)                 From W. Main Street to a point 50 ft. north of the curb line                         4140
N. 42nd Street (Both)                 From 50 ft. from the northerly curb line of W. Main Street
N. 42nd Street (East)                 From North Belt West south 127 ft.                                                   4925A
N. 44th Street (Both)                 From W. Main Street to N. Belt Line
N. 44th Street (North)                From 50 ft. from the near edge of the N. Belt Line pavement
N. 45th Street (Both)                 From W. Main Street to N. Belt Line
N. 48th Street (East)                 From W. Main Street to S. Park Drive
N. 48th Street (East)                 From the north curb line of W. Main Street 50 ft. north
N. 48th Street (East)                 From W. Main Street to Walter Street                                                 3099
N. 48th Street (East)                 From W. Main Street to the first alley north                                         3037
N. 48th Street (West)                 From North curb line of the east/west section of N. 48th Street to a point 49 ft.    5570  5-6-
                                      south, (the first driveway)                                                                1996
N. 4th Street (Both)                  From W. Main Street to W. “A” Street                                             6521  4-7-
                                                                                                                                 2003
N. 4th Street (Both)                  From W. “C” Street to the end of the block south of W. “C” Street            3168
N. 57th Street (East)                 From Main Street, 450 ft. north
N. 57th Street (West)                 From Main Street, 350 ft. north
N. 5th Street (West)                  From W. “C” Street north 40 ft.
N. 5th Street (West)                  From W. “F” Street to W. “E” Street                                          3073
N. 60th Street (East)                 From 50 ft. north of W. “B” Street, north 65 ft.
N. 66th Street (East)                 From W. Main Street to Notre Dame Hills                                              3637
N. 6th Street (Both)                  From W. Main Street to Rotary Park                                                   5958  3-1-
                                                                                                                                 1999
N. 6th Street (East)                  From W. “C” Street to a point 100 ft. north                                      3358
N. 6th Street (West)                  From the corner of W. “C” Street south 126 ft.                                   6521  4-7-
                                                                                                                                 2003
North 70th Street (Both)              From West “A” Street 30 feet north and south                                     7956- 6-6-
                                                                                                                           2016  2016
N. 72nd Street (East)                 From W. Main Street to first alley north                                             3155
N. 74th Street (Both)                 From W. Main Street to “A” Street                                                6617  1-20-
                                                                                                                                 2004
N. 75th Street (West)                 From a distance of 30 ft. North W. Main Street to the corner                         4772
N. 78th Street (South)                From East curb line of W. Main Street 50 ft. east
N. 78th Street (West)                 From Entire N. 78th Street                                                           7603  6-4-
                                                                                                                                 2012
N. 79th Street (Both)                 Entire Street                                                                        7502  7-5-
                                                                                                                                 2011
N. 89th Street (West)                 From Main Street to Access Road                                                      5984  5-17-
                                                                                                                                 1999
N. 8th Street (West)                  From “A” Street to W. “E” Street
N. 95th Street (East)                 From 140 ft. from the north curb line of W. Main Street
N. 96th Street (East)                 From W. Main Street 150 ft. to alley
N. Cape Court (East)                  From Gettysburg Drive, 150 ft. south                                                 4040
N. Charles Street (East)              From E. Main Street, 150 ft. north
N. Charles Street (East)              From E. “B” Street to E. “E” Street, signs to have legend, “No Truck Parking at Any
                                      Time”
N. Charles Street (East)              917 N. Charles Street entire distance                                                6435  7-1-
                                                                                                                                 2002
N. Charles Street (East)              From E. “B” Street, north 50 ft.                                                 4032
N. Charles Street (East)              From N. Douglas to a point 152 ft. west                                              4547
N. Charles Street (East)              From White Street to Bristow Street                                                  5793  10-6-
                                                                                                                                 1997
N. Charles Street (North)             From N. Douglas Street to a point 112 ft. west                                       4553
N. Charles Street (West)              From E. “A” Street to a point 75 ft. north                                       3771
N. Charles Street (West)              From Alley in the 200 block between “B” and “C” Streets to “C” Street
N. Charles Street (West)              From E. Main Street, 25 ft. north
N. Charles Street (West)              At Lutheran School
N. Charles Street (West)              From E. “A” Street, 150 ft. south
N. Charles Street (West)              From “A” Street to a point 50 ft. south                                          3722
N. Charles Street (West)              From E. “C” Street and E. “D” Street, signs with legend, “No Truck Parking in This
                                      Block”
N. Church Street (Both)               From 30 ft. east and west of intersection with E. “B” Street
N. Church Street (East)               Along curve from 606-608 N. Church Street                                            9049- 5-16-
                                                                                                                           2022  2022
N. Church Street (East)               From N. Douglas to the first alley north                                             4205
N. Church Street (East)               From the L&N Railroad tracks to a point 150 ft. south                                3434
N. Church Street (East)               From in front of 10 N. Church Street                                                 3141
N. Church Street (West)               From E. Main Street, 50 ft. north
N. Church Street (West)               From 549-607 N. Church Street                                                        9049- 5-16-
                                                                                                                           2022  2022
N. Church Street (West)               From 600 Lebanon Avenue rear to Metro Link                                           6332  10-1-
                                                                                                                                 2001
N. Church Street (West)               From the L&N Railroad tracks to the alley north of the railroad                      3434
N. Church Street (West)               From Sherman Street 68 ft. south                                                     6126  5-2-
                                                                                                                                 2000
N. Church Street (North)              From Lucinda Avenue to Sherman Street                                                7987- 10-3-
                                                                                                                           2016  2016
N. Douglas Avenue (East)              From the north curbline of Scheel Street to a point 157 ft. north of said curbline   5594  - -
                                                                                                                                 1996
N. Douglas Avenue (West)              From E. Main Street to Lebanon Avenue                                                3552
N. High Street (East)                 From Curb line of E. “C” Street, 85 ft. south                                    4245
N. High Street (West)                 From the driveway at the south side of the Moose Hall and the northerly driveway of
                                      the Midwest Home Savings and Loan Association
N. Illinois Street (Both)             From a point 280 ft. south of the Southern Railroad’s intersection with the center 4173
                                      of Illinois Street
N. Illinois Street (Both)             From “F” Street, 50 ft. in all directions                                        3722
N. Illinois Street (East)             From “E” Street, 50 to 60 ft. south
N. Illinois Street (East)             From E. “C” Street to a point 62 ft. north                                       3302
N. Jackson Street (Southwest)         From a point 75 ft. from south curb line of Lebanon Avenue, 100 ft.
N. Jackson Street (East)              From a point 20 ft. south of the centerline of Hickman Drive to a point 85 ft. south 4245
N. Jackson Street (West)              From the most southerly entrance of City Lot “A” to a point 52 ft. south of said 5699  2-17-
                                      entrance                                                                                   1997
N. Park Drive                         From Memorial Hospital driveway to a point 30 ft. south
N. Park Drive (Both)                  From Susan Ct. to N. 43rd Street                                                     3352
N. Park Drive (East)                  From 10 ft. south of E. Park Drive to 30 ft. south
N. Park Drive (North)                 From Dapron Drive to the Service Drive of Memorial Hospital, 270 ft.                 3942
N. Virginia Avenue (East)             From E. Main Street to a point 40 ft. north                                          4403
North Street (North)                  From Royal Heights Road to N. 39th Street                                            3258
Notre Dame Hills (Both)                                                                                                   7182  10-6-
                                                                                                                                 2008
Oak Knoll (West)                      From the curb line of Main Street, to a point 60 ft. north of the curb line          3630
Oak Ln. (Both)                        From a point 274 ft. west of the West curb line of N. 42nd Street to a point 690 ft. 5026
                                      west of said curb line
Oak Street (Both)                     From Main Street to “A” Street                                                   3647
Old Caseyville Road (Both)            N. Belt West to Highway 161                                                          5884  6-15-
                                                                                                                                 1998
Old Collinsville Road (Both)          From Shiloh Road to right-of-way of the Norfolk & Southern R.R.                      4728
Orchard Drive (Both)                  From N. Belt East to West Boulevard                                                  3059
Orchard Street (South)                From N. Belt East to end of National Store property                                  4398
                                                                                                                                 2-6-
Park Avenue (West)                    From Garfield Street to E. Adams Street                                              5372; 1995;
                                                                                                                           5768  8-4-
                                                                                                                                 1997
Park Drive (Both)                     From Bellevue Street to N. Park Drive                                                3352
Pennsylvania Avenue (East)            From 50 ft. from the intersection of E. “C” Street and 50 ft. from the intersecti5159
                                      of E. “D” Street
Pleasant Hill Park, Main Road (Both)  Entire Road                                                                          3563
Premier Drive (Both)                  Entire Road                                                                          3694
Premier Drive (West)                  From Route 177 (Mascoutah Avenue) to Marsh Drive                                     6770  9-6-
                                                                                                                                 2005
Pro Tour Drive (South)                From the eastern edge of 2540 Pro Tour Drive to a point 400 ft. east                 8960- 7-6-
                                                                                                                           2021  2021
Public Square (4 quadrants)           Except in the driveway to the southwestern quadrant                                  3784
Raab Avenue (North)                   At the alley between S. 15th Street and S. 16th Street from 5 ft. west to 25 ft.
                                      west of north curb line of alley
Rodenmeyer Street (Both)              From E. Adams Street to E. Grant Street                                              8937- 4-19-
                                                                                                                           2021  2021
Royal Heights Road (East)             From Illinois Rte. 161 to a point 500 ft. south of Memorial Drive and from N. Belt   4684
                                      West north 160 ft.
                                                                                                                           4684  - -;
Royal Heights Road (West)             From Illinois Rte. 161 to a point 150 ft. south of Memorial Drive                    5439  7-3-
                                                                                                                                 1995
                                                                                                                           4684; - -;
Royal Heights Road (West)             From N. Belt West, north 440 ft.                                                     5439  7-3-
                                                                                                                                 1995
Ruth Street (West)                    From N. Belt west to a point 159 ft. north                                           4636
S. 10th Street (East)                 From W. Monroe to Union Avenue                                                       7511  8-1-
                                                                                                                                 2011
S. 10th Street (East)                 From W. Main Street to the first alley south                                         3258
S. 10th Street (East)                 From W. Monroe Street south 95 ft.. (406 S. 10th Street)                             5884  6-15-
                                                                                                                                 1998
S. 10th Street (West)                 From Harrison Street south to the walk at 315 S. 10th Street                         5884  6-15-
                                                                                                                                 1998
S. 10th Street (West)                 At 407 S. 10th Street                                                                5905  9-8-
                                                                                                                                 1998
S. 11th Street (East)                 From W. Main Street to a point 50 ft. south                                          3089
S. 11th Street (East)                 From W. Main Street to W. Lincoln                                                    6756  7-18-
                                                                                                                                 2005
S. 11th Street (West)                 From W. Main Street to alley
S. 12th Street (Both)                 Entire Length                                                                        5274  7-5-
                                                                                                                                 1994
S. 13th Street (Southeast)            From Lincoln Street and State Street                                                 4817
S. 13th Street (West)                 From South curb line of Union Avenue 50 ft. south
S. 13th Street (West)                 From W. Main Street to alley
S. 14th Street (East)                 From W. Main Street 30 ft. south
S. 14th Street (East)                 From Illinois Central Railroad crossing, 125 ft. north
S. 14th Street (West)                 From Raab Avenue to a point 50 ft. north of Union Avenue
S. 14th Street (West)                 From W. Main Street to W. Washington Street
S. 14th Street (West)                 From Lincoln Street to 204 S. 14th Street                                            6024  8-16-
                                                                                                                                 1999
S. 15th Street (Both)                 From W. Main Street to the alley adjacent to the Illinois Central Railroad Tracks.
S. 16th Street (East)                 From 200 S. 16th Street
S. 16th Street (East)                 From a point 445 ft. north of Raab Avenue extending south to the South Belt West     4861
S. 16th Street (West)                 From South Belt West to a point 66 ft. north                                         5965  4-5-
                                                                                                                                 1999
S. 16th Street (West)                 From Illinois Central Railroad to a point 230 ft. south from the south right-of-way
                                      line of railroad
S. 17th Street (Both)                 From W. Main Street to Bunsen Avenue                                                 7470  2-7-
                                                                                                                                 2011
S. 17th Street (East)                 From W. Main Street to a point 200 ft. south of the Illinois Central Gulf Railroad   3537
                                      Tracks
S. 17th Street (East)                 From W. Main Street to Illinois Central Gulf Railroad tracks                         4398
S. 17th Street (West)                 From W. Main Street to alley
S. 18th Street                        From a distance of 150 ft. in a northerly direction to the intersection with W.
                                      Adams Street (located along ball park)
S. 18th Street (East)                 From S. Belt West to W. Adams Street                                                 5439  7-3-
                                                                                                                                 1995
S. 18th Street (East)                 From South curb line of W. Main Street to a point 76 ft. south then to 131 south     5852  3-16-
                                      (sign) No Parking on School Days                                                           1998
S. 18th Street (West)                 From Arnold Field to the curve where S. 18th Street intersects with S. 19th Street   5439  7-3-
                                      (West) and from S. Belt West to Roosevelt                                                  1995
S. 19th Street (West)                 From the Illinois Central Railroad Tracks to W. Main Street                          4755
S. 19th Street (West)                 From sign to be 20 ft. beyond the Raab Avenue intersection
S. 1st Street (Both)                  From Washington Street to Lincoln Street                                             4291
S. 1st Street (East)                  From Harrison Street and W. Washington Street
S. 1st Street (East)                  From 25 ft. north and south of Meyer Pants Factory
S. 1st Street (East)                  From Main Street to Washington Street                                                3320
S. 20th Street (East)                 From the south curb line of W. Main Street to a point 185 ft. south of said curb
                                      line
S. 20th Street (East)                 From South Belt West to Roosevelt Avenue                                             4933
S. 20th Street (West)                 From Northbound Illinois Central Railroad tracks and South Belt line
S. 22nd Street (Both)                 From W. Main Street to the Illinois Central Gulf Railroad
S. 22nd Street (East)                 From S. Belt West south 100 ft.                                                      4276
S. 22nd Street (East)                 From a distance of 165 ft. north from dead end
S. 23rd Street (East)                 From W. Main Street to S. Belt Line                                                  3168
S. 23rd Street (East)                 From Fairview Avenue to end of S. 23rd Street                                        3258
S. 23rd Street (West)                 From W. Washington Street 100 ft. north and south
S. 27th Street (Both)                 From W. Main Street to south entrance of Union School parking lot                    6099  4-3-
                                                                                                                                 2000
S. 29th Street (East)                 From W. Main Street to Fredricks Street
S. 29th Street (North)                From S. 27th Street, west 200 ft.                                                    3924
S. 2nd Street (East)                  From W. Main Street south 40 ft.                                                     5341  11-21-
                                                                                                                                 1994
S. 2nd Street (West)                  Between Harrison and Garfield Streets (temporary only, during construction at Street 6458  9-3-
                                      Elizabeth’s Hospital)                                                                    2002
S. 2nd Street (West)                  From W. Washington Street to a point 104 ft. north                                   4484
S. 30th Street (East)                 From W. Main Street, south 100 ft.                                                   3935
S. 3rd Street (Both)                  From W. Main Street to W. Lincoln Street                                             3111
S. 3rd Street (Both)                  From Cleveland Avenue north 80 ft.                                                   4007
S. 3rd Street (East)                  From Lincoln Street south to sign
S. 3rd Street (East)                  From Washington Street to a point 47 ft. north                                       3185
S. 3rd Street (East)                  From a point 42 ft. south of south curbline of W. Lincoln Street to a point 84 ft.   5482  11-6-
                                      south of said curbline                                                                     1995
S. 3rd Street (West)                  From W. Main Street south 45 ft.
S. 3rd Street (West)                  From 700 Block for a distance of the Items Factory Building
S. 3rd Street (West)                  From W. Lincoln to W. Monroe Street                                                  4427
South 38th Street (East)              From West Main Street 186 feet south                                                 8104- 9-18-
                                                                                                                           2017  2017
S. 44th Street (East)                 From 330 ft. from the southerly curb line of W. Main Street                          3083
S. 44th Street (West)                 From W. Main Street to W. Washington Street                                          3043
S. 50th Street (South alley)          From W. Washington Street to W. Main Street
S. 52nd Street (Both)                 From W. Main Street to the first alley south of W. Main Street
S. 56th Street (Both)                 From W. Main Street to the first alley south                                         3208
S. 62nd Street (West)                 From W. Main Street to a point 40 ft. south and from a point 102 ft. south to W.     4786
                                      Washington Street
S. 64th Street (Both)                 From W. Main Street, southerly to the north line of the abandoned railroad right-of- 3073
                                      way
S. 6th Street                         Including 916 and 918 S. 6th Street
S. 6th Street (Both)                  From Main Street to Washington Street                                                3685
S. 6th Street (East)                  From Cleveland Avenue to the north end of South Side Park
S. 6th Street (West)                  From Cleveland Street to a point 200 ft. north                                       3230
S. 72nd Street (Both)                 From W. Main Street south to dead end
S. 74th Street (Both)                 From Foley Drive to W. Main Street                                                   6617  1-20-
                                                                                                                                 2004
S. 77th Street (Both)                                                                                                     3692
S. 77th Street (West)                 From W. Main Street to the first alley south of W. Main Street
S. 79th Street (Both)                 Entire Street                                                                        7502  7-5-
                                                                                                                                 2011
S. 7th Street (Both)                  From Lincoln Street north to dead end                                                6418  5-6-
                                                                                                                                 2002
S. 81st Street (East)                 From W. Washington north to 38 Juanita Place                                         3693
S. 81st Street (East)                 From W. Main Street to W. Washington Street (in Juanita Place)                       3083
S. 85th Street (Both)                 From W. Main Street
S. 86th Street (West)                 From Main Street to the dead end                                                     5888  7-6-
                                                                                                                                 1998
S. 88th Street (East)                 From Main Street, 150 ft. to alley
S. 8th Street (East)                  From W. Main Street to a point 200 ft. south                                         4619
South 8th Street (East)               From West Main Street south to end of City Police Department property                7956- 6-6-
                                                                                                                           2016  2016
S. 95th Street (East)                 From Carbon Street to Signal Hill Park Lane                                          5468  10-2-
                                                                                                                                 1995
S. 95th Street (West)                 From W. Main Street to the bridge                                                    4410
S. 97th Street (East)                 From W. Main Street 50 ft. to alley
S. 97th Street (West)                 From W. Main Street 20 ft. south
S. 97th Street (West)                 From Main Street south 150 ft.                                                       3942
S. 98th Street (Both)                 From 15 ft. south of W. Main Street to 165 ft. south                                 3002
S. 9th Street (Both)                  From South curb line of Main Street to the point 100 ft. south of said curb line     3814
S. Charles Street (Both)              From E. Main Street, 25 ft. south
S. Charles Street (East)              From the south curb line of Washington Street to a point 50 ft. south
S. Charles Street (East)              From S. Belt East to a point 36 ft. north                                            4471
S. Charles Street (West)              From E. Washington Street to E. McKinley Street
S. Charles Street (West)              From McKinley Street, 80 ft. south of south curb                                     4245
S. Church Street (East)               From E. Washington Street to E. Lincoln Street                                       3302
S. Church Street (West)               From Washington Street to Lincoln Street                                             3290
S. Church Street (West)               From 100 ft. south of E. Main Street to 145 ft. south of south curb line             3139
S. Delaware St. (East)                From E. Main Street to end of block                                                  8948- 5-17-
                                                                                                                           2021  2021
S. High Street (East)                 From a distance of 44 ft. south of E. Lincoln                                        6714  - -
                                                                                                                                 2005
S. High Street (East)                 From a distance of 75 ft. south of E. Lincoln Street
S. High Street (West)                 From E. Main Street to 100 ft. south                                                 3109
S. High Street (West)                 From 10 ft. south of the driveway cut and 30 ft. north of the driveway cut at the    7084
                                      exit of the YMCA parking lot
S. High Street (West)                 At intersection with E. Washington Street
S. Illinois Street                    At 219 S. Illinois                                                                   3049
S. Illinois Street (Both)             From S. Belt (Ill. Rt. 158) to the Rt. 15 overpass                                   4173
S. Illinois Street (East)             From Town House Motel to a point 210 ft. north of said point                         5445  8-7-
                                                                                                                                 1995
S. Illinois Street (East)             From North curb line of E. Washington Street to a point 117 ft. from said curb line  5707  3-17-
                                                                                                                                 1997
S. Illinois Street (East)             From Lincoln Street to a point 508 ft. south                                         6590  11-3-
                                                                                                                                 2003
S. Illinois Street (East)             From Adams Street, to a point 200 ft. south                                          3118
S. Illinois Street (East)             From a point beginning 159 ft. from the north curb line of E. Washington Street to a 5707  3-17-
                                      point 205 ft. from said curb line                                                          1997
S. Illinois Street (Ill. Rt. 159)     From Van Buren Street, south to a point 310 ft. south of the centerline of South     4023
(West)                                Belt (Ill. Rts. 13 and 158)
S. Illinois Street (Ill. Rt. 159)     From a point 250 ft. north to a point 310 ft. south of the centerline of S. Belt     4023
(East)                                (Ill. Rts. 13 and 158)
S. Illinois Street (West)             From W. Garfield Street, south 157 ft.                                               4553
S. Illinois Street (West)             From 90 ft. north of east entrance to 66 ft. 8 in. south of entrance                 5958  3-1-
                                                                                                                                 1999
S. Illinois Street (West)             From Cleveland Avenue, 50 ft. south                                                  3149
S. Jackson Street                     In front of Atkinson Nursing Home (ambulance entrance) for a distance of 40 ft.
S. Jackson Street (Both)              From Monroe Street north and south 50 ft. for the length of curb lines               4148
S. Jackson Street (East)              From E. Main south 30 ft.
S. Jackson Street (West)              From Washington Street to a point 100 ft. south
S. McKinley Drive (Both)              From Lafayette Boulevard to Prairie Avenue                                           6486  12-2-
                                                                                                                                 2002
S. Oak Street (East)                  From the south curb line of Main Street to a Point 130 ft. south of the curb line    3744
S. Virginia Avenue (East)             From First block between E. Main Street and Olive Street
S. Woodcrest Drive (Both)             From Lebanon Road to a point 100 ft. south                                           4562
Sheffield Drive (Both)                Entire Length                                                                        5949  2-1-
                                                                                                                                 1999
Sheridan Avenue (Both)                From N. 28th Street to a point 50 ft. north                                          4655
Sheridan Avenue (West)                From Haney Drive to Scott Avenue
Sherman Street (Rte. 161) (Both)      From North City Limits to East City Limits                                           4673A
South Belt (Ill. Rts. 13 & 158)       From Illinois Central Gulf Railroad west to a point 315 ft. west of the centerline   4023
(Both)                                of S. Illinois Street (Ill. Rt. 159)
South Belt West (Ill. Rt. 13 & 158)   From Centreville Avenue (Ill. Rte. 158) east to S. Illinois Street (Ill. Rte. 159)   5396  3-20-
(Both)                                                                                                                           1995
Southwind Drive (North)               From 360 ft. across from 225 Southwind Drive to Shannon Drive                        6476  11-4-
                                                                                                                                 2002
Springdale (North)                    From the present limits at the west property line of the apartment building to
                                      Willow Creek Drive
Springdale (South)                    From Frank Scott Parkway West for 260 ft. west                                       6608  1-5-
                                                                                                                                 2004
State Street (Both)                   From Route 13, 150 ft. north
State Street (Both)                   From a point 75 ft. north to a point 300 ft. south of the centerline of South Belt   3867
                                      West (Ill. 13)
State Street (North)                  From Centreville Avenue, 75 ft. north-easterly
State Street (North)                  From Huff Avenue to Street Clair Avenue                                              5225  2-21-
                                                                                                                                 1994
State Street (South)                  From Centreville Avenue to the South Belt line
State Street (South)                  From Centreville Avenue, east to first alley                                         4427
State Street (South)                  From East curb line of Centreville Avenue to a point 80 ft. west                     4173
Street Clair Avenue (Northwest)       From W. Adams Street to State Street                                                 4950
Survey Street (West)                  From North curb line of Adams Street to a point 100 ft. north of the curb line       3630
Tamora Lane (Both)                                                                                                        6777  10-3-
                                                                                                                                 2005
Truck Loop (Both)                     From N. 17th Street to “F” Street
Union Avenue                          Seventy feet south of 303 Union Avenue on the east side to include the dead end      8195- 4-16-
                                                                                                                           2018  2018
Union Avenue (Northeast)              From Huff Street to a point 154 ft. northwest                                        4861
Van Buren Street (South)              One sign to be located 20 ft. east of the east curb line of S. Illinois Street and   3059
                                      the second sign to be placed 100 ft. east from the same curb line
Vandor Ct. (East)                     From 65 ft. going south from Columbus Drive (No Parking Here to Corner)              7418  8-2-
                                                                                                                                 2010
Vernier Avenue (East)                 From 30th Street to 31st Street                                                      3340
Vernier Avenue (West)                 From N. 33rd and N. 35th Street
Virginia Avenue (West)                From E. Main Street, 30 ft. to alley
W. “A” Street (Both)              From 2nd Street to W. Main Street                                                    3647
West “A” Street (Both)            From North 70th Street 30 feet east and west                                         7956- 6-6-
                                                                                                                           2016  2016
W. “A” Street (North)             From 100 ft. east to the curb line of N. 1st Street                                  6972  3-5-
                                                                                                                                 2007
W. “A” Street (North)             From N. 21st Street to N. 23rd Street                                                5768  8-4-
                                                                                                                                 1997
W. “A” Street (South)             From N. 36th Street 70 ft.                                                           6672A 8-16-
                                                                                                                                 2004
W. “B” Street (Both)              From Driveway at 7900 W. “B” Street to Dead End                                  6238  12-4-
                                                                                                                                 2000
W. “B” Street (South)             From lst Street 175 ft. east
W. “B” Street (South)             From 2nd to 3rd Street
W. “C” Street (North)             From N. 10th Street to N. 11th Street
W. “C” Street (North)             From West curb line of N. 3rd Street, to a point 100 ft. west                        3314
W. “C” Street (North)             From the west curb line of N. 3rd Street and extending west a distance of 100 ft.
W. “C” Street (South)             From the corner of N. 6th Street to 7th Street                                       6521  4-7-
                                                                                                                                 2003
W. “C” Street (South)             “No Parking to Corner” sign to be located on the easterly side of the alley between
                                      N. Illinois Street and N. 1st Street
W. “D” Street (South)             From Kretschmer Street, 100 ft. west
W. “D” Street (South)             From a point beginning 9 ft. from the northeast curb line of N. 10th Street to a     5746  6-16-
                                      point 123 ft. east from the point of beginning                                             1997
W. “E” Street (Both)              From 6th Street to 8th Street                                                        3314
W. “E” Street (North)             From N. 12th Street, 100 ft. east
W. “E” Street (North)             From N. 13th Street to a point 125 ft. west of Catawba Avenue                        3258
W. “E” Street (South)             From N. Illinois Street to the first alley west of N. Illinois Street
W. “F” Street (North)             From N. 5th Street to N. 6th Street                                                  3073
W. “F” Street (South)             From Illinois Street to 2nd Street
W. Adams Street (North)               From S. 6th Street to Richland Creek                                                 4100
W. Belle Street (North)               From Canterbury Drive to Columbus Drive
W. Belle Street (South)               Two signs spaced 50 ft. apart to be located immediately east of the new driveway for
                                      Street Augustine’s new church
W. Cleveland (South)                  From S. 6th Street to a point 88 ft. east                                            4792
W. Harrison Street (Both)             From 1st Street to 2nd Street                                                        3955
W. Harrison Street (South)            2 signs, one to be located 10 ft. of the easterly line of the first alley west of W.
                                      Illinois Street and the other 30 ft. east of the easterly alley line
W. Lincoln Street                     From a point 65 ft. west of South 3rd Street to a point 105 ft. west of South Street 3870
W. Lincoln Street (Both)              From Centreville Avenue to S. 6th Street
W. Lincoln Street (North)             From S. 10th Street and 14th Street                                                  5372  2-6-
                                                                                                                                 1995
W. Lincoln Street (North)             From Illinois Street to 1st Street                                                   4326
W. Lincoln Street (North)             From the west curb line of S. Illinois Street to a point 100 ft. west of the curb    3296
                                      line
W. Lincoln Street (South)             From 80 ft. in front of Street Elizabeth’s Hospital
W. Lincoln Street (South)             From the west curb line of S. Illinois Street, west 100 ft. from the same curb       3296
W. Lincoln Street (South)             From Centreville Avenue to S. 3rd Street
W. Lincoln Street (South)             From S. 3rd Street to a point 30 ft. west
W. Main Street (Both)                 30 ft. east and west from 14th Street
W. Main Street (Both)                 From Lebanon Road to N. 95th Street                                                  4895
W. Main Street (Both)                 From 16th to 17th Street                                                             4398
                                                                                                                           4243;
W. Main Street (Both)                 From 250 ft. east S. 23rd Street to 96th Street                                      4379;
                                                                                                                           4590
W. Main Street (North)                From Curb line of N. 17th Street, 55 ft. west                                        4398
W. Main Street (North)                From theater and 14th Street
W. Main Street (North)                From 3rd Street, 150 ft. west
W. Main Street (South)                From 3rd Street, 155 ft. east
W. Main Street (South)                From S. 11th Street east 29 ft.                                                      5019
W. Main Street (South)                From 7th Street to 8th Street                                                        4619
                                      From a point 46 ft. west of the west curb line of S. 18th Street to a point 83 ft.         12-5-
W. Main Street (South)                east of the east curb line of S. 16th Street This restriction shall not apply to     7549  2011
                                      weddings and funerals held at St. Mary’s Church
W. Main Street (South)                From a point 32 ft. west of the west curb line of S. 18th Street to a point 20 ft.   7565  2-6-
                                      east curb line of S. 16th Street                                                           2012
W. Main Street (South)                From N. 17th Street to a point 277 ft. west                                          4398
W. Main Street (South)                From 11th Street to 12th Street
W. Main Street (South)                From the west curb line of S. 10th Street to a point 110 ft. west (sign) No Parking  5852  3-16-
                                      Here to Corner                                                                             1998
W. Main Street (South)                From Logan Street, west 85 ft.                                                       3452
W. Main Street (West)                 From the north right-of-way line of the first alley North of W. Main Street to a     5077
                                      point 55 ft. North
W. Monroe Street (Both)               From Richland Creek to Centreville Avenue                                            6164  7-3-
                                                                                                                                 2000
W. Monroe Street (Both)               From S. Illinois Street, 50 ft. west
W. Park Drive (West)                  From the north curbline of the east/west section of N. 48th Street to a point 121    5570  5-6-
                                      ft. north of the south curbline of N. 49th Street                                          1996
W. Park Drive (West)                  From North curb of the east-west section of N. 48th Street to a point 121 ft. north, 5070
                                      the south curb line of N. 49th Street
W. Washington (Both)                  From S. 22nd Street to S. 23rd Street                                                5803  11-3-
                                                                                                                                 1997
W. Washington (North)                 From S. 22nd Street to S. 23rd Street                                                4291
W. Washington Street (North)          From S. 23rd Street to S. 22nd Street
W. Washington Street (North)          From the alley to S. 22nd Street                                                     3583
W. Washington Street (South)          At intervals of 85 ft., 135 ft., 255 ft., and 315 ft., measured westwardly from the
                                      westerly property line of S. 14th Street (no parking between signs)
W. Washington Street (South)          From S. 3rd Street to S. Illinois Street                                             4245;
                                                                                                                           4491
W. Washington Street (South)          From S. 22nd Street to S. 23rd Street                                                7875  7-7-
                                                                                                                                 2015
Wabash Avenue (Both)                  From Monroe Street, 50 ft. south
Walnut Street (West)                  From E. Main Street, 25 ft. north
Walnut Street (West)                  From the alley between Main Street to a point 30 ft. north of the alley              3845
Walnut Street (West)                  From a point 137 ft. from the north curb line of Sycamore Street to a point 212 ft.  5732  5-5-
                                      north of said point                                                                        1997
Walter Street (North)                 From N. 47th Street to N. 48th Street
Walter Street (South)                 From N. 47th Street to a point 30 ft. west from the east curb line of Walter Street  3111
Washington Street (Both)              From W. Main Street to 3rd Street                                                    3647
Washington Street (North)             From 3rd Street to Charles Street                                                    3647
West Boulevard (North)                From “B” Street 60 ft. westward                                                  6048
West Boulevard (North)                From Illinois Power’s Entrance to the existing bus stop, a distance of 274 ft.     4636
West Haven School Road (Both)                                                                                             6672A 8-16-
                                                                                                                                 2004
Westwood Court (South)                From West curb line of 17th Street to a point 700 ft. west of said curb line         3288
 
      (2)   Seasonal no parking.
         (a)   January through June.
Street (Side) Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street (Side)         Location                            Ord. No.  Date Passed
Benton Street (Both)  From Sycamore Street to School      7875      7-6-2015
                      Street
Forest Avenue (North) From Grant Street to McClintock     5341      11-21-1994
                      Avenue
LaSalle St. (West)    From Bristow St. to Lucinda Ave.    8414-2020 1-21-2020
Lorene Street (North) From 36th Street to the east end of 4291
                      Lorene Street
N. 31st Street (East) From W. Main Street to Sheridan     4427
                      Avenue
N. 32nd Street (East) From W. Main Street to Putnam       4427
                      Avenue
                      From Summit Avenue north to the
N. 38th Street (East) northerly terminus of N. 38th       4925A
                      Street
N. Charles St. (West) From Bristow St. to Lucinda Ave.    8414-2020 1-21-2020
N. Church St. (West)  From Bristow St. to Lucinda Ave.    8414-2020 1-21-2020
S. 22nd Street (East) From S. Belt West to dead end       8316      3-18-2019
State Street (North)  From Centreville Avenue to S. 8th   4140
                      Street
State Street (South)  From Centreville Avenue to S. 8th   4925A
                      Street
Summit Avenue (East)  From N. 36th Street to the east end 4287
                      of Summit Avenue
 
         (b)   July through December.
Street (Side) Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street (Side)         Location                            Ord. No.  Date Passed
LaSalle St. (East)    From Bristow St. to Lucinda Ave.    8414-2020 1-21-2020
Lorene Street (South) From 36th Street to the east end of 4291
                      Lorene Street
N. 31st Street (West) From W. Main Street to Sheridan     4427
                      Avenue
N. 32nd Street (West) From W. Main Street to Putnam       4427
                      Avenue
                      From Summit Avenue north to the
N. 38th Street (West) northerly terminus of N. 38th       4925A
                      Street
N. Charles St. (East) From Bristow St. to Lucinda Ave.    8414-2020 1-21-2020
N. Church St. (East)  From Bristow St. to Lucinda Ave.    8414-2020 1-21-2020
S. 22nd Street (West) From S. Belt West to dead end       8316      3-18-2019
State Street (North)  From Centreville Avenue to S. 8th   4925A
                      Street
State Street (South)  From Centreville Avenue to S. 8th   4140
                      Street
Summit Avenue (West)  From N. 36th Street to the east end 4287
                      of Summit Avenue
 
         (c)   April through September.
 
Street (Side) Location                                 Ord. No. Date Passed
S. 8th Street From W. Washington to CNRR (tracks) west 7516     10-3-2011
              side
 
         (d)   October through March.
 
Street (Side) Location                                 Ord. No. Date Passed
S. 8th Street From W. Washington to CNRR (tracks) east 7516     10-3-2011
              side
 
   (C)   Trucks prohibited. No trucks three tons or over may park on the
following streets:
 
Street (Side)         Location                             Ord. No. Date Passed
N. 46th Street (West) From Ammel Street to North Belt Line 5274     7-5-1994
N. 75th Street (Both)                                     3692
S. 75th Street (Both)                                     3692
S. 76th Street (Both)                                     3692
 
   (D)   Fire lanes.
Street - Side Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street - Side      Location                                                                   Ord.  Date
                                                                                              No.   Passed
“D” Street (NorFrom Walnut Street to Oak Street                                           5732  5-5-
                                                                                                    1997
“F” Street (NorFrom High Street to N. Illinois Street
“F” Street (NorFrom 164 ft. east of N. 17th Street to a point 301 ft. east                4697
42nd Street (Both) From W. Main Street to the first alley north of Main Street (146 ft.)      6476  11-4-
                                                                                                    2002
78th Street        From W. Main Street to a point 100 ft. east of the alley
(North)
Annex Street       From 100 ft. from northeast corner of Annex/ McKinley to end of street     7676A 4-15-
(East)                                                                                              2013
Centreville Avenue From I.C. RR R-O-W to W. Washington Street, thence east on the south side  3121
(East)             of W. Washington Street to S. 3rd Street
Church Street      From Benton Street to Clay Street
(South)
Clay Street (West) From Lebanon Avenue to Church Street
Cleveland Avenue   From State Street to S. 5th Street                                         6315
(Both)
Cleveland Avenue   From 3rd Street to 6th Street                                              3208
(North)
Cleveland Avenue   From S. Illinois Street to the east end of the bridge across Richland
(North)            Creek
Columbus Drive     From W. Belle Street extending south for a distance of 300 ft.
(East)
Court Street       500 Block                                                                  6669  9-7-
(East)                                                                                              2004
E. “A” Street  From N. Charles Street east 100 ft.                                        3161
(North)
E. “C” Street  From Illinois Street to High Street                                        3208
(South)
E. “C” Street  From Douglas Avenue to Pennsylvania Avenue                                 3327
(South)
E. Belle (South)   From Delaware to Sherman                                                   6873  6-5-
                                                                                                    2006
E. Garfield (Both) From 100 ft. east from Mascoutah Avenue                                    6813  1-17-
                                                                                                    2006
E. Park Drive      From N. Park Drive to Memorial Drive
(East)
Florida Avenue     From South curb of E. “B” Street to northerly property line of E. Main 3055
(Southwest)        Street
Fremont Street     From Lebanon Avenue, north for the full length of Freemont Street
(East)
Gettysburg Drive   From a point 30 ft. east of the east curb line of N. 57th Street to a      5768  8-4-
(North)            point 1452 ft. east of the point of beginning                                    1997
Gettysburg Drive   From High Forest Drive to a point 515 ft. north of the point of beginning  5793  10-6-
(South)                                                                                             1997
Grant Street
(South side of     From Freeburg Avenue to Abend Street
first Alley south)
Hampton Ct.        In front of 802 & 803                                                      6733  5-2-
                                                                                                    2005
Kansas Avenue      From E. “B” Street north 45 ft.                                        7023  9-4-
(East)                                                                                              2007
Kansas Avenue      From E. “B” Street north 67 ft.                                        7023  9-4-
(West)                                                                                              2007
Kingery Ct.                                                                                  7395  6-7-
                                                                                                    2010
Lake Street (West) From S. 21st Street to S. 20th Street
Lincoln Circle     From each entrance of Lincoln Circle 125 ft. south from W. Main Street to
(East)             Roland Avenue
Mascoutah Avenue   Between E. Garfield and Fulton Street                                      6813  1-17-
(South)                                                                                             2006
Mascoutah Avenue   From E. Lincoln to E. McKinley Street                                      3017
(West)
Memorial Drive     From entire length from Royal Heights Road to Memorial Hospital
(West)
Michigan Avenue    From E. Main Street to E. “B” Street                                   3111
(East)
N. 10th Street     From W. “D” Street to W. “E” Street                                3370
(East)
N. 10th Street     From Main Street to “C” Street
(East)
N. 11th Street     From Main Street to “E” Street
(West)
N. 12th Street     From “A” Street to “E” Street
(East)
N. 13th Street     Between W. “A” Street to W. “D” Street                             6714  - -
(East)                                                                                              2005
N. 13th Street     From W. “A” Street to W. “E” Street                                6733  5-2-
(West)                                                                                              2005
N. 15th Street     From W. Main Street to W. “E” Street
(East)
N. 24th Street     From W. Main Street to Southern tracks
(East)
N. 27th Street     From W. Main Street to Sheridan Avenue                                     3208
(South)
N. 28th Street     From Main Street to 17th Street
(East)
N. 30th Street     From W. Main Street to Vernier Street
(East)
N. 33rd Street     From W. Main Street to Vernier Street
(West)
N. 36th Street     From the first alley north of W. Main Street to Summit Avenue              3009
(East)
N. 37th Street     From W. Main Street to W. “A” Street                                   6351  12-3-
(Both)                                                                                              2001
N. 37th Street     From W. “A” Street to Columbus Drive
(East)
N. 37th Street     From Main Street to Summit Avenue                                          8203- 5-21-
(East)                                                                                        2018  2018
N. 42nd Street     From W. Main Street to Summit Avenue                                       6486  12-2-
(West)                                                                                              2002
N. 4th Street      From W. “C” Street to W. “E” Street                                3852
(East)
N. 5th Street      From “C” Street to “D” Street                                      4959
(East)
N. 5th Street      From “F” Street north to the Railroad Bridge                           3324
(East)
N. 7th Street      From W. “C” Street to W. “E” Street                                3384
(East)
N. 7th Street      200 Block                                                                  6458  9-3-
(West)                                                                                              2002
N. 8th Street      The first block                                                            6624  3-1-
(East)                                                                                              2004
N. 8th Street      From Main Street to “A” Street
(East)
N. 8th Street      From “A” Street to “C” Street
(West)
N. 9th Street      From W. “D” Street to W. “E” Street
(East)
N. 9th Street      From W. “C” Street to W. “D” Street                                3370
(West)
N. Charles Street  From E. “A” Street north to driveway                                   3161
(East)
N. Church Street   From Bristow Street to Lebanon Avenue                                      6263
(East)
N. Jackson Street  From Hickman Street to E. “E” Street                                   5928  11-2-
(East)                                                                                              1998
N. Jackson Street  From Hickman Street 60 ft. west on each side                               5928  11-2-
(West)                                                                                              1998
N. Jackson Street  From N. 24th Street, a distance of 250 ft. in a westerly direction
(North)
Premier Drive      From Rt. 177 (Mascoutah Avenue) to Marsh Drive                             6770  9-6-
(East)                                                                                              2005
Raab Avenue        From S. 11th Street to S. 13th Street
(North)
Raab Avenue        From 13th Street to 19th Street
(South)
Reiss Avenue       From 30th Street south                                                     5313  9-19-
(North)                                                                                             1994
Ridge Street       From Oak Knoll Place to the end of Ridge Street
(South)
S. 10th Street     From W. Main Street to Washington                                          3258
(West)
S. 10th Street     From Washington to Lincoln                                                 7502  7-5-
(West)                                                                                              2011
S. 12th Street     From 2nd block
(East)
S. 13th Street     From Raab Avenue to existing persons with disabilities parking             7800  8-4-
(East)                                                                                              2014
S. 13th Street     From Union Avenue to the alley                                             6030
(West)
S. 13th Street     From W. Main Street to State Street
(West)
S. 14th Street     From Union Avenue to Lincoln Street
(Southeast)
S. 14th Street     From Raab Avenue to Franklin Avenue
(West)
S. 15th Street     From Raab Avenue to Franklin Avenue
(West)
S. 17th Street     From W. Main Street to South Belt                                          3168
(Northwest)
S. 18th Street     From South Belt West to N. Adams Street                                    5439  7-3-
(East)                                                                                              1995
S. 19th Street     From South Belt West to Roosevelt Street                                   5439  7-3-
(West)                                                                                              1995
S. 21st Street     From Roosevelt to Lake Street
(South)
S. 23rd Street     From W. Main Street to the South Belt Line                                 3168
(West)
S. 27th Street     From the remainder of the distance from W. Main Street to Godfrey Street;
(West)             existing fire land covers approximately 2/3 of the distance from W. Main
                   to Godfrey
S. 30th Street     From W. Main Street south to the alley
(West)
S. 32nd Street     From Martha Street to the end of S. 32nd Street                            6395  3-4-
(East)                                                                                              2002
S. 32nd Street     From Roland Avenue to Martha Street                                        7208  12-15-
(East)                                                                                              2008
S. 35th Street     From W. Main Street to Roland Avenue                                       6395  3-4-
(East)                                                                                              2002
S. 37th Street     From Main Street on around 2 turns for a distance of approximately 2       3161
(East)             blocks
S. 38th Street     From W. Main Street to Michelle Drive
(West)
S. 53rd Street     From W. Main Street to the first alley                                     3168
(West)
S. 54th Street      
(Both)
S. 60th Street     From W. Main Street to the end of S. 60th Street                           3161
(East)
S. 6th Street      From W. Cleveland Avenue to W. Monroe Street                               3092
(East)
S. 71st Street     From W. Main Street to the first alley south of W. Main Street             3471
(West)
S. 73rd Street     From W. Main Street to the end of S. 73rd Street                           3021
(Northwest)
S. 76th Street     From W. Main Street to the south end of 76th Street
(West)
S. 85th Street     From W. Main Street to the end of S. 85th Street
(West)
S. 86th Street     From Main Street to the dead end                                           5877  5-4-
                                                                                                    1998
S. 87th Street     From W. Main Street to dead end                                            6274
S. 8th Street      From W. Main Street to W. Washington Street                                5803  11-3-
(West)                                                                                              1997
S. 98th Street     From W. Main Street to Olympia                                             6653  6-7-
(Both)                                                                                              2004
S. Charles Street  From Van Buren to S. Belt Line
(West)
S. Charles Street  From E. Grant to Van Buren Street                                          3071
(West)
S. Church Street   From S. Belt Line to south point of Church Street                          3552
(West)
S. Florida Avenue  From E. Main Street to dead end                                            5788
S. Pennsylvania    From E. Main Street to Olive Street                                        3017
Avenue (West)
Schilling Street   From Lebanon Avenue to Charles Street
(West)
Sheridan Avenue    From 27th Street to 28th Street                                            3208
(East)
Sherwood Forest                                                                              6198  9-5-
Place (South)                                                                                       2000
State Street       From W. Cleveland Avenue to Roosevelt School property                      6315
(Both)
State Street       From S. 13th Street to S. 14th Street
(South)
Timothy Lane                                                                                 7889  8-17-
(West)                                                                                              2015
Union Avenue       From S. 11th Street to S. 14th Street                                      5077
(South)
W. “A” Street  From 6900 Block                                                            5987  6-7-
(North)                                                                                             1999
W. “A” Street  From 11th Street to 17th Street
(North)
W. “C” Street  From 6th Street to Alley east of N. 11th Street                            5225  2-21-
(North)                                                                                             1994
W. “C” Street  From Westerly side of the alley between N. Illinois Street and N. 1st
(North)            Street to 2nd Street
W. “C” Street  From 4th Street to 6th Street
(South)
W. “E” St. (NorFrom Cattawba Ave. to North 6th St.                                        8100- 9-5-
                                                                                              2017  2017
W. “J” Street  From N. 2nd Street, a distance of 380 ft. in an easterly direction         3304
(North)
W. Harrison Street From S. Illinois Street to S. 1st Street
(North)
W. Lincoln Street  From intersection with S. 16th Street to first alley east of S. 16th
(South)            Street
W. Main Street
(South side of      
first alley
W. Main Street     From first alley north at N. 42nd Street                                   5225  2-21-
(West)                                                                                              1994
W. Monroe Street   From S. 8th Street to S. 10th Street                                       6568  10-6-
(North)                                                                                             2003
W. Washington      From S. 62nd Street to S. 64th Street                                      3314
Street (South)
Westwood Ct.       From the west curb line of 17th Street to a point 700 ft. west of said
(North)            curb line
Williams Street    From 4th Street to 5th Street
(South)
 
   (E)   Specific properties and alleys.
      (1)   At bus stops;
      (2)   Premises owned by the city known as the north one-half of Lot 90 of
the “Original Town of Belleville” as per plat thereof recorded in the
Recorder’s Office in Book of Plats “E” on page 9, except for employees or
officials of the city;
      (3)   South 30 feet of Lot 4-A of the “Original Town of Belleville”, as
per plat thereof recorded in the County Recorder’s Office in Book of Plats “E”
on page 9;
      (4)   East of and adjacent to the easterly property line of Jefferson
School, extending from N. Charles Street to a point 100 feet east of the
westerly projection of LaSalle Street to be designated “Joless Drive”;
      (5)   South 1st Street between Washington and Lincoln, except for city
employees;
      (6)   No parking along the guard rail at 333 N. 46th Street;
      (7)   South side of E. “B” Street, starting at the east right-of-way line
of the Metro Link right-of-way and proceeding 375 feet to the east to the
eastern property line at 1220 E. “B” Street; and
      (8)   Maiden Lane and Bel-Aire Drive (grassy open area).
   (F)   Alleys.
 
Location/Provisions                                        Ord. No. Date Passed
Alley between S. Jackson Street and S. Church Street east
side from the south curb line of E. Lincoln Street to a    5028
point 45 ft. south of said curb line
Alley behind S. 57th Street from intersection with S. 57th
Street to dead end, both sides. (behind 5700 W. Main       5463
Street)
Alley behind S. 14th Street from intersection with W.      5463
Lincoln Street to intersection with S. 14th Street
No parking any time on both sides of the alley from
Roosevelt Street to the curve where the alley intersects   5900     8-3-1998
with S. 18th Street Signs shall be posted
The no parking restriction on the west side of S. 18th
Street from the entrance to Arnold Field to the curve
where S. 18th Street intersects with the Roosevelt Street  5900     8-3-1998
alley shall be removed except 45 ft. from the south right-
of-way line northwardly 45 ft. on the west side of S. 18th
Street
A new no parking at any time restriction on the east side
of S. 18th Street where S. 18th Street intersects with the
Roosevelt Street alley for a distance of 185 ft. from the  5900     8-3-1998
south right-of-way line northwardly 185 ft. on the east
side of S. 18th Street
 
(1960 Code, Ch. 52, Schd. E) (Ord. 3552, passed - -; Ord. 5884, passed 6-15-
1998; Ord. 5905, passed 9-8-1998; Ord. 7731, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 7875,
passed 7-6-2015; Ord. 7956-2016, passed 6-6-2016; Ord. 9249-2024, passed 2-20-
2024; Ord. 9260-2024, passed 3-18-2024)
SCHEDULE II. NO PARKING AT SPECIFIED TIMES; LIMITED PARKING.
   (A)   In accordance with §
74.15 of this traffic code, no person shall park a vehicle during the times
specified on the following streets:
Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Location                                                                           Ord.  Date
                                                                                   No.   Passed
6:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday
W. “A” Street (South) from N. 16th Street to N. 17th Street                    5594  - -
                                                                                         1996
6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
S. 14th Street, East side, from W. Washington Street to Union Avenue
6:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Monday through Friday
N. Douglas, east side, from “B” Street to first alley north                    5877  5-4-
                                                                                         1998
6:00 a.m. to 12:00 Noon on Saturdays - May through October
Mascoutah Ave, west side, from Main Street south to Washington Street (tow away    6624  3-1-
zone)                                                                                    2004
6:00 a.m. to 12:00 Noon on Sundays
Columbus Drive, west side, from Blackburn Drive south for 300 ft.
S. 81st Street, east side, from 38 Juanita Place to W. Main Street                 3693
7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
S. 15th Street from the northeasterly line of Raab Avenue to the southwesterly
line of an alley running parallel to and distant 130 ft. northeasterly of the
northeasterly line of Raab Avenue
7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., except Sundays and Legal Holidays
Bux Avenue, both sides, from W. Monroe Street 100 ft. North
Florida Avenue, east side from 160 ft. south of the curb line of E. “B” Street 3067
360 ft. south
7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., except Saturdays, Sundays and Legal Holidays
S. 16th Street, east side, from the northbound I.C. tracks to Raab Avenue
The alley north of the 2400 block of W. Main Street for the entire block of said
alley
N. Church Street, in front of 17 N. Church Street between signs at property lines  7699  7-15-
                                                                                         2013
7:00 a.m. to 12:00 Noon on Sundays
S. 2nd Street, west side, between W. Lincoln Street and W. Garfield Street
S. 3rd Street, between W. Lincoln Street and W. Garfield Street
Douglas Avenue, east side, from E. “A” Street, 40 ft. north and 40 ft. south
Grand Avenue, east side, from N. Douglas Avenue, 100 ft. north and 100 ft. south
Harrison Street, both sides, between S. 2nd Street and S. 3rd Street
Harrison Street, north side, between S. 2nd Street and S. Illinois Street
N. Jackson Street between E. “D” Street and E. “E” Street                  5600  6-17-
                                                                                         1996
Scheel Street, both sides, 25 ft. west from alley between Bristow Street and
Hecker Street
8:00 a.m. to 12:00 Noon on Sundays
E. Lincoln Street, 2 signs located at the east and west property lines of First
Divine Science Church at 311 E. Lincoln Street
W. “A” Street, south side, between 13th and 14th Streets                       3665
7:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.
W. Washington Street, between 22nd and 23rd Streets, on the south side of the      3659
street
S. 22nd Street, west side, from Main Street to Washington Street                   3665
7:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday
Lucinda Avenue between N. Charles and Orbon Place                                  5877  5-4-
                                                                                         1998
7:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. on School Days
Block Garden Boulevard, 200 block, east and west sides, 220 ft. to the south of    8999- 11-1-
the intersection of Carlyle Avenue                                                 2021  2021
8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday
Cleveland Avenue, north side, from Emma Avenue to State Street                     4338
W. “B” Street from N. 3rd Street for 90 ft. east                               6651  5-17-
                                                                                         2004
No Truck Parking from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Monday through Friday
E. “C” Street, northerly side, from Church Street to Charles Street
Charles Street, westerly side, from “B” Street to first alley north of “B” Street
8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Everyday
S. 14th Street, west side, from a point opposite of the south curb line of Lincoln 3498
Street to a point 100 ft. north of said curb line
S. 14th Street, west side, from Lincoln Street to a point 100 ft. north            4072
S. 87th Street, from W. Main Street to the alley on west side                      3615
S. Illinois Street, west side, between McKinley Street and Illinois Central Gulf   3694
Railroad
Florida Avenue, east side, from a point 113 ft. south of E. “B” Street to a poi4553
313 ft. south
8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday
S. 13th Street, east side, from W. Main Street to Lincoln Street
“C” Street, north side, from Douglas Avenue to Delmar Avenue                   3474
“B” Street, north side, from 60 ft. east of N. Charles Street to 150 ft. east  4040
Hecker Street, north side, from Lebanon Avenue to the east end of Hecker one block 4338
east of Scheel Street
Donna Drive, north side, from N. 15th Street to N. 17th Street                     4636
8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., except Sundays and legal holidays
2203 W. Main Street, 2 signs, to accommodate Beauty Salon, one sign at each
property line
“B” Street, north side, from a point 60 ft. east of the east curb line of N.   3449
Charles Street to a point 150 ft. east of said curb line
Canterbury Drive, both sides, from W. Belle Street to the North Belt Line          4072
8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., except Saturdays, Sundays and Legal Holidays
S. 3rd Street, east side, from W. Lincoln Street, south 60 ft.
E. “A” Street, north side, from 10 ft. west of the west curb line of N. Oak
Street, to 60 ft. west
N. Oak Street, east side, from 125 ft. north of E. Main Street, to 175 ft. north
8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday
N. Jackson Street east side, 2 signs, one to be located 20 ft. south of the        3002
centerline of Hackman Drive and the second, 85 ft. south of the same point
S. 16th Street, west side, from the Illinois Central Railroad to a point 150 ft.
south of the railroad
N. 48th Street, west side, between W. Main Street and Walter Street
8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday
W. Main Street, north side, from a point 34 ft. east of N. 18th Street to a point  4981
268 ft. east
8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. - Except Saturday and Sunday
E. “C” Street, north side, from the alley between Church Street and Jackson Str6126  5-2-
to a point 40 ft. east of alley                                                          2000
8:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
42nd Street, both sides from Summit Avenue to N. Belt West                         5011
Oak Lane, both sides from N. 42nd Street to Jessie Street                          5011
8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
E. “A” Street, north side in 500 block from driveway to corner of Walnut Street
Walnut Street, west side, from E. “B” Street 150 ft. south
9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
Spruce Drive, both sides, from E. Main Street to Route 161                         4977
Kil-Mar Drive, westerly side, from the parking lot to the northerly end of Kil-Mar
Drive
N. 48th Street, west side, from Main Street to Walter Street                       3563
N. 21st Street, west side, from the first alley north of W. Main Street to a point 3563
60 ft. north of said alley
E. “E” Street, south side, from a point 50 ft. east of the east curb line of Co3845
Street to a point 100 ft. east of said curb line
S. Illinois, west side from a point 66 ft. south of the south curb line of         5243  4-4-
McKinley to said curb line                                                               1994
Police parking only in front of 103 E. “B” Street                              6674  10-4-
                                                                                         2004
At Any Time, Except Sundays
“C” Street, north side, in 200 block, from Church Street to a point 60 ft. from
alley
At Any Time, Except Sundays from 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.
E. “A” Street, south side, from a point 73 ft. west of west curb line of Walnut5395  3-20-
Street to a point 151 ft. west of said curb line                                         1995
At Any Time, Except Sundays and Legal Holidays
W. “B” Street, south side, between N. 2nd Street and N. 3rd Street
W. Main Street, north side, between N. 23rd Street and Southern Railroad right-of-
way
W. Main Street, south side, between S. 23rd Street and S. 27th Street
W. Lincoln Street, north side, from the west curb line of S. 3rd Street to the     3099
West Pedestrian Signal
S. Church, east side, between E. Washington Street and E. Lincoln Street           3302
W. Lincoln Street, south side, between S. lst Street and S. 2nd Street             3302
At Any Time, From January through June
N. 38th Street From 15 N. 38th Street to Summit Avenue, on the even number side    9384- 5-19-
                                                                                   2025  2025
At Any Time, From July through December
N. 38th Street From 12 N. 38th Street to Summit Avenue, on the odd number side     9383- 5-19-
                                                                                   2025  2025
10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m.
Benton Street, east side, from Sycamore Street to Scheel Street and from Scheel
Street to a point 270 ft. north of Scheel Street
Scheel Street, north side, from Benton Street to L&N Railroad
10:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.
W. Park Drive, both sides, between N. 49th Street and Dapron Drive                 3446
7:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. on School Days
Abraham Lincoln Elementary School and West Junior High School
Royal Heights Road, east side, the length of the property occupied by the school
grounds
Royal Heights Road, west side, between North Street and S. Park Drive
Bunsen School
E. “E” Street, north side, 350 ft. from Walnut Street to N. Oak Street
Douglas Avenue, southwest side
N. Oak Street, west side, from E. “E” Street, 150 ft. north
Walnut Street, east side, from E. “D” Street, 150 ft. north
Dewey School
N. 48th Street, east side, from Bier Street, 165 ft. southward
Bier Street, south side, from N. 48th Street, 345 ft. east
Douglas School
Carlyle Avenue, north side, the length of the property occupied by the Douglas
School grounds
Carlyle Avenue, south side, approximately 400 ft. from Missouri Avenue to Garden
Boulevard
Douglas Avenue, west side, from E. Main Street, 300 ft. north
E. Main Street, north side, from Douglas Avenue, 330 ft. west
Franklin School
N. 2nd Street, west side, from W. “C” Street, 350 ft. north
W. “C” Street, north side, from N. 2nd Street, 330 ft. west
W. “D” Street, both sides, from N. 3rd Street, east to school gates
Henry Raab School
S. 11th Street, northwest side, 250 ft. from Union Avenue to Raab Avenue
S. 13th Street southeast side, 250 ft. from Union Avenue to Raab Avenue
Raab Avenue, northeast side, 325 ft. from S. 11th Street to S. 13th Street
Union Avenue, southwest side, 325 ft. from S. 11th Street to S. 13th Street
Humboldt School
W. “C” Street, north side, 234 ft. immediately in front of school
W. “D” Street, south side, immediately in rear of school
Alley, east side of school, between W. “C” Street and W. “D” Street
Central Junior High
S. Illinois Street, east side, from Lincoln Street to a point 508 ft. south        4833
Jefferson School
N. Charles Street, east side, from Lucinda Avenue, 300 ft. north
Lucinda Avenue, north side, from N. Charles Street, 475 ft. east
Junior High School and Central Building
S. Illinois Street, east side, from Lincoln Street, 400 ft. south
Roosevelt School
Cleveland Avenue, south side, from State Street, directly in front of the school
and continuing a distance of 550 ft.
State Street, east side, from Cleveland Avenue, 450 ft. south
Washington School
Abend Street, west side, from E. Garfield Street to E. Monroe Street, 300 ft.
south
S. Charles Street, both sides, from E. Garfield Street to E. Monroe Street
7:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. on School Days
W. Washington, south side, from S. 22nd Street and S. 23rd Street                  5814  12-1-
                                                                                         1997
7:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. on School Days
Union Avenue (North) from 11th Street to S. 13th Street                            6030
(Student drop-off and pick-up shall be allowed in said no parking zone.)
7:30 a.m. to 4:40 p.m. on School Days
W. Washington Street, south side, from S. 23rd Street, 60 ft. east
2:01 a.m. Monday morning to 6:00 a.m. Monday morning
Main Street, both sides, between Illinois State Bond Route #161, also known as
Carlyle Avenue and N. 28th Street
No Parking During the Months of June, July, August and September
E. “D” Street, north side, from N. Belt Line (Sherman Street) to the east end of
the ball park
E. “D” Street, south side, for a distance of 100 ft. from the east edge of the
North Belt Line pavement
8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. on School Days
Signal Hill Place, east side, from Signal Hill Park Lane to Superior Drive         6964  2-5-
                                                                                         2007
4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. on Saturdays
Blackburn and Columbus Drive                                                       9293- 7-1-
                                                                                   2024  2024
4:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m.
S. 2nd Street, east side, from a point 55 ft. south of W. Monroe Street to a point 3168
120 ft. south
At Any Time Except Sundays From 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.
E. “A” Street (South) From a point 73 ft. west of Walnut Street to a point 151 5395  3-20-
west                                                                                     1995
2:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m.
Southwind Drive, 200 ft. each side of driveway at the rear entrance to Whiteside
School
January through June
S. 21st Street (East) From Roosevelt Avenue to South Belt West                     6502  1-21-
                                                                                         2003
July through December
S. 21st Street (West) From Roosevelt Avenue to City limits                         6502  1-21-
                                                                                         2003
At Any Time - reserved for the use of the tenant at the address
208 E. Washington Street                                                           9135  3-20-
                                                                                         2023
 
 
(1960 Code, Ch. 52, Schd. F)
   (B)   Limited parking. In accordance with §
74.14 of this chapter, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than the times
specified on the following streets:
Street (Side) Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street (Side)                                     Location                                                                         Ord.  Date
                                                                                                                                   No.   Passed
10 Minutes
“A” Street (North)                            From a point 50 ft. east to the east curb line on N. 2nd Street to a point 95    3814
                                                  ft. east of said curb line
                                                  In the vicinity of its intersection with Mascoutah Avenue and Lincoln Street, 2
Abend Street (East)                               signs to be located 10 ft. on each side of the entrance walk to the building
                                                  with address of 200 Abend Street
Charles Street                                    At R.C. Cola Company
E. “B” Street and N. Church Street            At Herman Grocery
E. Washington Street (South)                      From 85 ft. of the west curb line of S. Jackson Street to 105 ft. west of same   3109
                                                  curb line
Main Street (North)                               From Oak Street 115 ft. west
N. Jackson Street (East)                          From 40 ft. south of E. “B” Street to a point 80 ft. south of the curb line  3230
S. 2nd Street (Both)                              From W. Washington Street and W. Lincoln Street (Postal Patrons Only)            4245
S. Illinois Street                                From a point 25 ft. south of Washington Street to a point 125 ft. south
W. Washington Street (South)                      From S. 2nd Street east the length of the U.S. Post Office property (postal
                                                  patrons only)
W. Washington Street (South)                      From a point 130 ft. east of S. 1st Street to a point 190 ft. east
10 Minutes, Monday through Friday
E. “A” Street (North)                         From 10 ft. west of Florida Avenue to 80 ft. west                                2988
E. “A” Street (South)                         From 129 ft. west of the west curb line of Jackson Street to 150 ft. west        3234
307 - 309 N. Illinois Street                      In front                                                                         6884  7-3-
                                                                                                                                         2006
15 Minutes
111 W. “A” Street                                                                                                             3027
Canterbury Drive                                  Along Street Augustine School on school days                                     6406  4-1-
                                                                                                                                         2002
Centreville Avenue (East)                         700 block, 75 ft. from State Street
Delmar Avenue (East)                              From a point 30 ft. south to the south curb of “B” Street and a point 50 ft. 3734
                                                  south of said curb
E. “A” Street (North)                         From 30 ft. east of the curb line of Illinois Street to 90 ft. east of the same  3104
                                                  curb
E. “B” Street (North)                         From a point 30 ft. east of the east curbline of N. Illinois Street to a point   5617  9-3-
                                                  70 ft. east of said curbline                                                           1996
E. “C” Street (North)                         From the alley between Church Street and Jackson Street to a point 40 ft. east   3691
                                                  of the alley
                                                  From In front of the building occupied by the Poodle Parlor; 2 signs, one to be
E. “C” Street (North)                         installed 85 ft. from the east curb line of N. Illinois Street and the other 125
                                                  ft. from the same curb line
E. Adams Street (South)                           From E. Adams Street, 150 ft. east to alley
E. Lincoln Street                                 At 18 E. Lincoln Street from driveway to driveway
Illinois Street                                   From “F” Street, 125 ft. north
Monroe Street                                     From a point 20 ft. west of S. 1st Street to a point 62 ft. west                 4547
Monroe Street (South)                             From 1st Street, 100 ft. east
N. 18th Street (East)                             From 100 ft. from Main Street north to alley
N. 2nd Street (West)                              From 20 ft. south of W. “C” Street to a point 40 ft. south                   4861
N. 3rd Street (East)                              300 block
N. 47th Street (Both)                             From Bier Street to Walter Street
N. Charles Street (Both)                          From E. “B” Street and the alley south of E. “B” Street                  4148
N. Jackson Street (Northeast) and “C” Street  50 ft. back from the corner                                                      3659
(East)
N. Jackson Street (East)                          From a point 50 ft. north of the “C” Street north curb to a point 100 ft. nor4291
N. Pennsylvania                                   In front of Rumer Corner Market (E. “C” Street and N. Pennsylvania), at 300 N.
                                                  Pennsylvania
S. 1st Street (West)                              From “F” Street, 125 ft. north
S. 20th Street (East)                             From W. Main Street, 100 ft. south
S. 3rd Street (West)                              From South side of building line at 11 S. 3rd Street, 42 ft. north
S. 95th Street (North)                            From a point 40 ft. east of Cherry Avenue to a point 265 ft. east
S. Illinois Street                                In front of Metropolitan Building at 213 S. Illinois Street
S. Illinois Street (East)                         From E. Adams Street, 200 ft. south
S. Illinois Street (West)                         From Harrison Street, 150 ft. south
Van Buren Street (North)                          From 50 ft. east of S. Illinois Street to 140 ft. east                           3059
W. “C” Street (South)                         From 20 ft. south of west of N. 2nd Street to a point 60 ft. west                4380
W. “D” Street (South)                         200 Block
W. Main Street                                    30 ft. in front of liquor store at 1406 W. Main Street
W. Main Street (South)                            From a point 48 ft. east of S. 15th Street to a point 92 ft. east                4904
W. Main Street (South)                            From S. 20th Street, 50 ft. east
W. Main Street (West)                             From a point 50 ft. north of S. 98th Street to a point 94 ft. north of the north 4879
                                                  curb line
W. Washington Street (South)                      From S. 3rd Street to alley
15 Minutes, Monday through Saturday
Michigan (West)                                   From 50 ft. north of the north curb line of E. “A” Street, to 100 ft. north o3067
                                                  the same curb
N. 10th Street                                    To a point 165 ft. east of the east curb line                                    3484
W. Main Street (North)                            From a point 125 ft. east of the east curb line                                  3484
15 Minutes on School Days from 7:30 p.m. to 4:00 p.m.
Union Avenue                                      North side 185 ft. from S. 11th Street, west on Union Avenue (In front of 1115   6395  3-4-
                                                  Union Avenue)                                                                          2002
15 Minutes, between 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. Monday through Friday
S. 78th Street (West)                             From Main Street, 140 ft. south
15 Minutes between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
“B” Street (South)                            From a point 106 ft. west of N. Church Street, to a point 125 ft. west of same   3185
N. Charles Street (Both)                          From “B” Street to the alley south of “B” Street                         3425
15 Minutes between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
                                                 Winkler Soda Factory
N. High Street (West)                             From E. “C” Street, 50 ft. north
N. Oak Street (East)                              From E. Main Street to E. Washington Street
S. 1st Street (West)                              From a point 55 ft. north of the north curb line of Garfield Street to a point   3428
                                                  90 ft. north of said curb line
15 Minutes between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., except Sundays and Legal Holidays
E. Adams Street (South)                           From S. Illinois Street 150 ft. east to the alley
S. Illinois Street (East)                         From E. Adams Street, 200 ft. south
20 Minutes
200 N. Jackson Street (East)                       
30 Minutes
                                                  The 4 parking spaces immediately adjacent to W. Washington Street on the east
                                                  side of the City Hall Parking Lot, next to Security Abstract and Title Co.
                                                 building, the area so reserved to be clearly marked by signs bearing the legend:
                                                  “Parking for City Hall Patrons Only - Thirty Minutes Time Limit - Violators Will
                                                  be Towed Away”.
                                                 The first 4 spaces west of the two persons with disabilities designated spaces   5463
                                                  of the High and “A” Street lot (behind 113 and 115 E. Main Street)
410 Lebanon Avenue                                For 30 ft., between 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.                                       4380
E. Main Street (Both)                             Two blocks east and two blocks west of the Public Square                         3552
E. Main Street (South)                            186 ft. west of the west curb line of S. High Street to a point 230 ft. west of  4772
                                                  said curb line
Lebanon Avenue (South)                            From Jackson Street to a point 110 ft. east                                      3866
Main Street (Both)                                From Oak Street to 6th Street                                                    3704
Main Street (Both)                                Except From a point 27.2 ft. east of east curb line of S. 2nd Street to a point  5341  11-21-
                                                  52.7 ft. east of said curb line                                                        1994
N. 18th Street (West)                             From 50 ft. north of W. Main Street to a point 80 ft. north                      3296
N. 19th Street (East)                             From Main Street to the alley immediately north of Main Street                   3457
N. 96th Street (West)                             From W. Main Street to the first alley north of W. Main Street
S. High Street (West)                             From E. McKinley Street to 60 ft. south                                          6292
W. “B” Street                                 In front of Illinois Bell                                                        3583
W. “C” Street (South)                         From a distance of 30 ft. west of the westerly line of the alley between 1st and
                                                  2nd Streets
W. Main Street                                    For the length of the property at 9701 W. Main Street                            4124
W. Main Street (Both)                             From 300 block                                                                   5928  11-2-
                                                                                                                                         1998
W. Main Street (North)                            From west property line of N. 4th Street, 250 ft. west
W. Main Street (North)                            From a point 20 ft. west of the west curb line of N. 18th Street to a point 50   3296
                                                  ft. west of said curb line
Williams Street (North)                           From N. 4th Street to the east end of Williams Street
Williams Street (North)                           From the west 50 ft.                                                             3123
30 Minutes Between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
                                                  The four northerly most parking places south of the one extreme northerly              9-3-
                                                 existing persons with disabilities parking place in the center isle of City Lot  5616  1996
                                                  “J”
One Hour, at any time
“B” Street (Both)                             From N. Illinois Street to rear entrance to American Legion
200 W. Main Street                                In front                                                                         6754  7-5-
                                                                                                                                         2005
500 E. Main Street                                In front                                                                         6754  7-5-
                                                                                                                                         2005
Carbon Street (Northeast)                          
E. “A” Street (North)                         From Charles Street east to 507 E. “A” Street
E. “A” Street and Walnut                      In front of Moser’s Market
E. “C” Street (South)                         At Wessel’s Market
E. “D” Street (North)                         From N. Illinois Street 40 ft. east                                              5930  11-16-
                                                                                                                                         1998
E. “E” Street (North)                         From N. Illinois Street east 60 ft.                                              5928  11-2-
                                                                                                                                         1998
E. “E” Street (North)                         From N. Illinois Street 40 ft.                                                   5930  11-16-
                                                                                                                                         1998
E. Main Street (South)                            From a point 20 ft. west of Pennsylvania Avenue to a point 60 ft. west           3881
E. Main Street (South)                            From Douglas Avenue to a point 110 ft. east                                      3866
E. Monroe Street                                  948 E. Main Street - Rear                                                        4451
Fulton Street (North)                             From a point 50 ft. west of Mascoutah Avenue, 125 ft. west
Garfield Street (North)                           From Mascoutah Avenue to the first alley east of Mascoutah Avenue
High Street                                       100 ft. between property lines at 314 N. High Street
Illinois Street (West)                            Entire 400 Block
Lebanon Avenue (North)                            From Fremont Street to Cart Lane
Lebanon Avenue (South)                            From 50 ft. west of Sherman Street to 50 ft. west
Memorial Drive (Both)                             From E. Park Drive to 43rd Street                                                3352
N. 10th Street (Both)                             From W. “D” Street to W. “E” Street
N. 12th Street (Both)                             From the Southern Railroad north to W. “E” Street
N. 14th Street (East)                             From W. Main Street north 60 ft.
N. 1st Street (West)                              From “B” Street, 75 ft. north
N. 28th Street (Both)                             From W. Main Street to Sheridan Avenue
N. 3rd Street (Both)                              From Main Street to W. “A” Street
N. Michigan Avenue (West)                         From a point 20 ft. south of E. “A” Street to a point 45 ft. south           3465
S. 12th Street (West)                             From W. Main Street south to the alley
S. 14th st. (West)                                From Lincoln Street to State Street
S. 37th Street (West)                             From Main Street 150 ft. south
S. 3rd Street (West)                              From Monroe Street to a point 94 ft. south                                       3492
S. 57th Street (West)                             From W. Main Street to the first alley south of W. Main Street
S. 6th Street                                     In front of South Side Poultry Association for 2 car spaces
S. 75th Street (Both)                             From Main Street 150 ft. north                                                   4817
S. 75th Street (East)                             From Main Street, to a point 150 ft. south                                       4817
State Street (West)                               From Huff Street to Van Buren Street
W. “C” Street (South)                         From Illinois Street to 1st Street
W. “D” Street (Both)                          From N. 10th Street to N. 13th Street
W. “E” Street (Both)                          From N. 9th Street to N. 15th Street
W. “E” Street (North)                         From Catawba Avenue to N. 15th Street
W. Lincoln Street (North)                         From 20 ft. west of S. 1st Street to 150 ft. west
W. Main Street                                    3rd Street to 4th Street                                                         5999  7-6-
                                                                                                                                         1999
W. Main Street (Both)                             From N. 10th Street to N. 11th Street
W. Main Street (North)                            From 4th Street to 5th Street                                                    3246
W. Main Street (South)                            From 3rd Street and a point west of 3rd Street and from a point 190 ft. west of  3246
                                                  3rd Street to 4th Street
W. Main Street (South)                            From west curb line of S. 14th Street to the east curb line of S. 16th Street    3049
W. Main Street (South)                            From Glueck’s and Hocker’s places of business to 15th Street
W. Main Street (South)                            From 10 ft. south of S. 14th Street to 60 ft. south
Walnut Street (West)                              From E. Main Street to E. “A” Street
One Hour, between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
E. “A” Street                                 From N. Church Street to N. Charles Street
Krey Packing Co.                                  From Railroad spur 60 ft. east
Mascoutah Avenue (West)                           From E. Main Street to E. Washington Street
N. 10th Street (West)                             From a point 35 ft. north to the north curb line of W. Main Street to the first
                                                  alley north of W. Main Street
N. Illinois Street (West)                         From a point 160 ft. to 180 ft. north of the W. “E” Street north curb line   4140
Street Charles Street                              
W. “C” Street (North)                         To property line of Carl’s Refrigerator Co.
W. “C” Street (South)                         From Illinois Street to 1st Street
Washington Street (South)                         From Stromberg Avenue to Forest Avenue                                           4057
One Hour, between 8:00 a.m. aud 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday
S. Illinois Street (West)                         From Monroe Street to Adams Street                                               4547
W. Main Street (North)                            From N. 21st Street to N. 23rd Street                                            3185
One Hour, between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday
S. Charles Street (East)                          From McKinley Street to a point 183 ft. north of curb line                       4977
One Hour Between 8:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., except Sundays and Legal Holidays
E. Main Street (Both)                             From Public Square to Walnut Street
N. Jackson Street (Both)                          From E. Main Street to E. “A” Street
W. Main Street (Both)                             From Public Square to 3rd Street
One Hour, between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., except Sundays and Legal Holidays
E. “D” Street (North)                         From High Street to Illinois Street
Illinois Street                                   From “D” Street to “E” Street
Main Street (Both)                                From 10th Street to 12th Street                                                  3148
Main Street (North)                               From 4th Street to 6th Street
Main Street (North)                               From N. 14th Street to 60 ft. east from same curb line                           5227  3-7-
                                                                                                                                         1994
Main Street (South)                               From S. 12th Street to S. 13th Street
N. 18th Street (East)                             From a point 40 ft. north of Main Street to a point 95 ft. north
S. High Street (East)                             From a point 40 ft. south of Lincoln Street, to a point 160 ft. south
S. High Street (West)                             From a point 84 ft. south from E. Lincoln Street, to a point 189 ft. south of    3185
                                                  the same
Two Hours, at any Time
City Lot “A”                                  E. “A” Street between N. High Street and N. Jackson Street; except for the   5699  2-17-
                                                  existing 30-minute designated spaces                                                   1997
Cleveland Avenue (North)                          From S. 6th Street to State Street
Dintelman Avenue (West)                           From Centreville Avenue to the Railroad Salvage
E. “E” Street (South)                         From N. Illinois Street to N. High Street, said zone to be marked with signs     3434
                                                  reading “Two Hour Parking”
E. Grant Street (North)                           From a point 53 ft. west of the Ann Street right-of-way to a point 100 ft. west  5274  7-5-
                                                  of the right-of-way of Ann Street                                                      1994
E. Main Street (North)                            From 65 ft. west of Virginia Avenue to 144 ft. west                              5830  1-20-
                                                                                                                                         1998
E. Main Street (North)                            From Oak Street to Walnut Street
E. Main Street (South)                            From Oak Street to Frank Nevener’s Garage
Freeburg Avenue (Northeast)                       From S. Charles Street west 102 ft. from west curb                               4944
                                                  From E. Washington Street to the end of the second curve of Mascoutah Avenue
Mascoutah Avenue (North)                          south and east of the Lincoln Street intersection, except for a distance 35 ft.
                                                  on the westerly side of Mascoutah Avenue, northerly from the north curb line of
                                                  Lincoln Street
N. 2nd Street (East)                              From W. “B” Street to W. “C” Street                                      4398
N. 41st Street (Both)                             From W. Main Street to Summit Avenue
N. 49th Street (West)                             From the property line of 17 N. 49th Street
N. Park Drive (West)                              From a point 30 ft. south of the exit driveway of Memorial Hospital to Park      4410
                                                  Drive
Oak Street (South)                                From a point 29 ft. south of E. Main Street and going 69 ft. south of E. Main    7605  6-4-
                                                  Street                                                                                 2012
S. 1st Street (West)                              From W. Garfield Street 50 ft. north
S. 30th Street (West)                             From W. Main Street to the first alley
S. 76th Street (East)                             From W. Main Street to the first alley south of Main Street
Scheel Street (Both)                              From N. Douglas Avenue to Benton Street                                          5594  - -
                                                                                                                                         1996
W. “B” Street (North)                         (First block by S.O.S. Garage), change present one-hour parking signs to two-
                                                  hour parking signs
W. “B” Street (South)                         From 1st Street to 2nd Street
W. Garfield Street (North)                        From S. 1st Street 158 ft. west
W. Lincoln Street (North)                         From a point 35 ft. west of S. Charles Street, to a point 60 ft.; and also, from 3283
                                                  a point 50 ft. east of S. Charles Street to a point 120 ft. east
W. Main Street (North)                            From 17th Street 100 ft. west
W. Main Street (North)                            From N. 20th Street to N. 23rd Street                                            3018
Washington and High Street                        Parking lot                                                                      4959
Two Hours, Monday through Friday
Ivanhoe Ct. (East)                                From a point 69 ft. south of the south curb line of Queensway to a point 126 ft. 3302
                                                  south of south curb line
N. Jackson Street (West)                          From the corner of E. “C” Street to a point 50 ft. north of said corner      3691
Main Street                                       From the intersection of 6th and Main Street to the intersection of Oak and Main 9221- 11-20-
                                                  Street                                                                           2023  2023
Two Hours, Monday through Saturday
W. Lincoln Street (North)                         From S. 3rd Street to Centreville Avenue
Two Hours between 7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday
E. “B” Street (South)                         From the east curb line of Florida Avenue to 160 ft. east of the same curb line  3111
Florida Avenue (East)                             From 50 ft. south of the south curb line of E. “B” Street to the south curb l3111
Two Hours between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., except Saturday, Sundays and Legal Holidays
S. Illinois Street (East)                         From Cleveland Avenue to a point 200 ft. south of the south curb line of Van     4245
                                                  Buren Street
S. Illinois Street (West)                         From Cleveland Avenue to the opposite south curb line on Van Buren Street        4245
W. Main Street (South)                            From City limits to Lebanon Road
Two Hours between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday
E. “A” Street (Both)                          From Florida Avenue to Lucinda Avenue                                            3083
E. “B” Street (Both)                          From 600 Block                                                                   5965  4-5-
                                                                                                                                         1999
E. “C” Street (Both)                          From Oak Street to Douglas Avenue                                                5463
                                                  2 signs; one to be located 10 ft. easterly from the northeasterly alley line of
E. Garfield Street (Southeast)                    the first alley east of Mascoutah Avenue and the other 90 ft. easterly from said
                                                  northeasterly alley line
N. 48th Street (East)                             From W. Main Street to alley
S. Freeburg Avenue (South)                        One sign to be located 200 ft. north of the north property line of Van Buren
                                                  Street and the other 450 ft. north of the same property line
State Street (Southwest)                          From the northerly right-of-way line of Huff Street to 100 ft. northwesterly     2992
                                                  from the same right-of-way line
Two Hours between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., except Sundays and Legal Holidays.
S. Monroe Street                                  From S. 2nd Street to 100 ft. east                                               3168
Two Hours between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
Delmar Street (West)                              From E. “A” Street to E. “B” Street                                      5514  2-5-
                                                                                                                                         1996
E. “B” Street (South)                         From Delmar Street east to a point 31 ft. west of alley between Delmar Street    5514  2-5-
                                                  and Douglas Avenue                                                                     1996
E. “B” Street (South)                         From a point 20 ft. west of Delmar Street to a point 45 ft. of said point        5514  2-5-
                                                                                                                                         1996
Memorial Drive (Both)                             From N. 43rd Street to a point 670 ft. east                                      3474
N. 15th Street (West)                             From W. “A” Street to W. “E” Street                                      3434
N. 43rd Street (Both)                             From S. Park Drive and Sunnyside Drive, said zone to be marked with signs        3434
                                                  reading, “Two Hour Parking, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.”
N. 44th Street (Both)                             From S. Park Drive to N. Park Drive, said zone to be marked with appropriate     3452
                                                  signs
N. 5th Street (East)                              From W. “F” Street to a point opposite the intersection of W. “E” Street 3073
N. 5th Street (West)                              From Southern Railroad Trestle to W. “F” Street                              3073
W. “F” Street (South)                         From N. 4th Street to N. 5th Street
Two Hours between 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
W. “B” Street (North)                         From 1st Street to 2nd Street
Two Hours between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday
N. Jackson Street (West)                          From 160 ft. north of E. “B” Street to 200 ft. north
Two Hours between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., except Saturdays and Legal Holidays
N. 21st Street (West)                             From the first alley north of W. Main Street to a point 60 ft. north of said     3648
                                                  alley
Three Hour Parking
Charles and Washington Street lot                 Behind Olde Town Mall                                                            4832
E. Main Street and E. Monroe Street               Southeast quadrant                                                               4451
High and Washington Street northeast lot                                                                                          4832
W. Main Street                                    From N. 4th Street to a point 106 ft. east                                       4755
W. Main Street (South)                            From 3rd Street west 500 ft.                                                     4933
Nine Hour Parking Between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
Douglas Avenue (East)                             From north curb line of E. “B” Street to a point 148 ft. north of said point
Ten Hour Parking
N. Church Street and E. “A” Street            One-half parking lot                                                             6274
Restricted Parking
                                                 City Hall parking lot located west of City Hall is restricted to City Hall       3064
                                                  employees and patrons
City Employee Parking 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
S. 1st Street                                     6 spaces on the east and west side of S. 1st Street immediately south of         4312
                                                  Harrison Street
W. Harrison Street                                5 spaces on the south side of the first block of W. Harrison Street              4312
W. Lincoln Street                                 5 spaces on the north side of W. Lincoln Street from S. 1st Street to the Post   4312
                                                  Office driveway
W. Lincoln Street                                 8 spaces on the south side of W. Lincoln Street from S. Illinois Street to S.    4312
                                                  1st Street
 
(1960 Code, Ch. 52, Schd. G)
(Ord. 7800, passed 8-4-2014; Ord. 7839, passed 1-5-2015)
SCHEDULE III. SPECIAL HOURLY PARKING.
   In accordance with §
74.30 of this traffic code, the following are designated as special hourly
parking lots:
 
Street (Side)     Location
E. “B” Street First block past the alley and the second and third block
                  thereof
E. Lincoln Street From S. Illinois Street to S. Church Street
N. Church Street  From “A” Street to “B” Street
N. High Street    From “B” Street to “C” Street
 
(1960 Code, Ch. 52, Schd. I) (Ord. 3615, passed - -)
SCHEDULE IV. LOADING ZONES.
   It shall be unlawful for any driver of a vehicle to stand a passenger
vehicle for a period of time longer than is necessary for the loading of or
unloading of passengers, in any place designated as a loading zone and marked
as such. In accordance with the provisions of §
74.08 of this traffic code, the following streets are hereby designated as
loading zones:
Street - Side Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street - Side      Location                                                                         Ord.  Date
                                                                                                    No.   Passed
                  Directly in front of the entrance to any theater at any time that theater is
                   open
121 E. Washington  3 spaces for curbside pickup in southeast corner of parking lot at Main Library  8873- 9-21-
St.                                                                                                 2020  2020
3414 W. Main       2 spaces for curbside pickup in northeast corner of parking lot near alley at    8873- 9-21-
Street             West Branch Library                                                              2020  2020
“A” Street (SouFrom 64 ft. east of Jackson Street to a point 118 ft. east                       3203
“A” Street (SouFrom 123 ft. west of N. Church Street to a point 177 ft. west
E. “A” Street  From a point 30 ft. west of N. Church Street to a point 70 ft. west              3434
(South)
E. “A” Street  From a point 82 ft. west of the west curb line of N. Charles Street to a point   4999
(South)            of 156 ft. west of said curb line
E. Main Street     In front of 221 E. Main Street on Saturday 7:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m.                 7476  3-7-
                                                                                                          2011
E. Main Street     At 127 E. Main Street                                                            5123
E. Main Street     In front of 221 E. Main Street Tuesday through Saturday 7:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m.    7555  12-19-
                                                                                                          2011
E. Main Street     From a point 58 ft. east of the east curb line of N. Charles Street to a point
(South)            112 ft. east of the curb line, the zone to be marked by two signs with the       3384
                   Loading Zone, One Hour Limit
E. Main Street     Blanquart’s Rusty Gem from point of 20 ft. to point of 40 ft. from S. High     9378- 4-21-
(South             Street                                                                           2025  2025
E. Washington      From a point 180.4 ft. east of S. Illinois Street to a point 203.4 ft. east      4959
Street (South)
Lincoln Street     From a point 100 ft. east of Lincoln Street to a point 225 ft. east              3296
(North)
Lincoln Street     From a point 29 ft. east of S. High Street to a point 49 ft. east                4950
(South)
Lincoln Street     From a point 118 ft. east of S. 1st Street to a point 130 ft. east               5026
(South)
N. 1st Street      From 110 ft. north from curb to W. “A” Street                                5984  5-17-
(West)                                                                                                    1999
N. 1st Street      From a point north of the south curb line of Main 138.17 ft. to a point 182.67   5225  2-21-
(West)             ft. from the same curb line                                                            1994
N. 2nd Street      From 70 ft. north of W. “B” Street to 90 ft. north of W. “B” Street      7067  1-7-
(West)                                                                                                    2008
N. 30th Street     From West Main Street to the first alley                                         8171- 2-20-
(West)                                                                                              2018  2018
N. 37th Street     From W. Main Street to closest alley                                             8203- 5-21-
(West)                                                                                              2018  2018
N. 39th Street     From a point 70 ft. north of North Belt West to a point 115 ft. north            3637
(West)
N. 3rd Street      From a point 10 ft. north of W. Main Street to a point 35 ft. north of W. Main
(West)             Street
N. 49th Street     From W. Main Street north to the existing telephone pole
(East)
N. Charles Street  From a point starting 63 ft. south of E. “A” Street to 139 ft. south of E. “A” 6-4-
(East)             Street so as to provide for a loading zone on weekdays from 7:00 a.m. until 5:00 7605  2012
                   p.m.
N. Church Street   From a point 100 ft. north of the north line of E. Main Street to a point 124    7694  7-1-
(East)             ft. from the same curb line from 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.                                2013
N. Church Street   From a point 120 ft. north of the north curb line of “B” Street, to a point 13637
(West)             ft. north of the curb line
N. Church Street   From Benton Street to Clay Street                                                6274
(West)
N. Church Street   From “A” Street south 18 ft.                                                 5090
(West)
N. Church Street   Starting 100 feet north from the northwest corner of North Church and East B     8315  3-18-
(West)             Streets and extending 40 feet                                                          2019
N. High Street     From a point 131 ft. north of the north curb line of E. “D” Street to a point5011
(East)             156 ft. north of said curb line
N. High Street     From in front of 110 N. High Street                                              4081
(East)
N. High Street     From a point 57 ft. north of E. “B” Street to a point 83 ft. north           3302
(West)
N. Illinois Street From a point 74 ft. north of W. “C” Street to a point 95 ft. north           3302
(West)
N. Jackson Street  From a point 35 ft. south of the south curb line of E. “A” Street to a point 4999
(East)             ft. south of said curb line
N. Jackson Street  From a point 20 ft. north of E. “B” Street to a point 50 ft. north           3230
(East)
S. 1st Street      From 95 ft. south of W. Main Street to a point 145 ft. south                     4711
(East)
S. 3rd Street      From a point 90 ft. south of Garfield Street to a point 120 ft. south of curb    3258
(East)             line
S. 7th Street      From Union Avenue north 30 ft.
(East)
S. Charles Street  At 912 S. Charles Street from 8:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Monday through Friday       5877  5-4-
(East)                                                                                                    1998
S. Charles Street  From the length of E.P. Miller and Son Battery Service property, starting at the
(West)             northerly edge of driveway and extending 150 ft. southerly
S. Charles Street  From a point 82 ft. from the curb line of E. Main Street to a point 146 ft. from 7694  7-1-
(West)             curb line of E. Main Street from 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.                                2013
S. Church Street   From the alley south of Main Street to a point 17 ft. north of the alley, a      7694  7-1-
(East)             distance of 56 ft. south, from 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.                                  2013
S. High Street     From E. Main Street south 95 ft., from 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.                   7694  7-1-
(East)                                                                                                    2013
S. High Street     From a point 230 ft. south of the south curb line of Lincoln Street to a point   3801
(West)             275 ft. south of the curb line
S. High Street     From a point 32 ft. from E. Main Street south 84 ft., from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00     7694  7-1-
(West)             p.m.                                                                                   2013
S. Illinois Street From a point beginning 117 ft. from the north curb line of E. Washington Street  5746  6-16-
(East)             to a point 179 ft. from said curb line - 2 hour limit with placard                     1997
S. Jackson Street  From a point 92 ft. south of E. Main Street, a distance of 56 ft. south from 7:  7694  7-1-
(East)             00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.                                                                   2013
S. Jackson Street  Yellow striped zone between alley and corner of parking lot at 10 S. Jackson     8194- 4-16-
(East)             Street                                                                           2018  2018
S. Jackson Street  From E. Main Street south 66 ft.                                                 4828
(West)
Union Avenue       From S. 7th Street east 160 ft.
(North)
Walnut Street      2 parking spots directly south of East A Street to provide for a loading zone on 8269- 10-15-
(West)             weekdays from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.                                             2018  2018
W. “B” Street  From a point 76 ft. east of east curb line of N. 1st Street to a point 138 ft.   5468  10-2-
(North)            east of said curb line                                                                 1995
W. Garfield Street From S. 3rd Street 230 ft. east                                                  6787  11-7-
(North)                                                                                                   2005
W. Lincoln Street  From a point 132 ft. east of S. 1st Street to a point 154 ft. east
(South)
W. Main Street     From a distance of 25 ft. centered on the entrance walk to 9415 W. Main Street   4040
(North)
 
(1960 Code, Ch. 52, Schd. K) (Ord. 8973-2021, passed 7-19-2021)
SCHEDULE V. PARKING METER ZONES.
   Ordinance 9221-2023 removed all parking meters in the city and replaced them
with signage indicating that the parking space is limited to two hours, Monday
through Friday, from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. from the intersection of 6th and
Main Street to the intersection of Oak and Main Street.
(1960 Code, Ch. 52, Schd. M) (Am. Ord. 8856-2020, passed 7-20-2020; Am. Ord.
9221-2023, passed 11-20-2023)
SCHEDULE VI. OFF-STREET PARKING ZONES.
   In accordance with the provisions of §
74.30 of this traffic code, the following regulations shall apply to the
designated parking lots and zones as follows:
 
Location                                                                    Time  Ord. Date
                                                                            Limit No.  Passed
Fee for parking on a gated lot in the city shall be $0.50, subject to the         3705 5-5-
time restrictions set forth above                                                      1980
Parking lot at northwest corner of N. Illinois Street and “A” Street    10    3095
                                                                            hours
Parking lot at southwest corner of E. “B” Street and N. Jackson Street  10    3095
                                                                            hours
Parking lot at the northeast corner of E. Washington Street and S. Jackson  2     5768 8-4-
Street (designated as Lot “L”)                                          hours      1997
Parking lot on the northeast corner of Lincoln Street and S. 1st Street and 10    3757 12-29-
the parking lot on N. Jackson between E. Main Street and E. “A” Street  hours      1980
Parking Lot at N. 3rd Street and W. Main Street                             10    5768 8-4-
                                                                            hours      1997
 
(1960 Code, Ch. 52, Schd. N)
SCHEDULE VII. PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES PARKING.
   In accordance with the provisions of §
74.14 of this traffic code, no person shall park a vehicle at any of the
following locations without a “persons with disabilities sticker”:
Street - Side Location Ord. No. Date Passed
Street - Side      Location                                                                        Ord.  Date
                                                                                                   No.   Passed
1 space on High    150 ft. north of E. “D” Street curb line to a point 175 ft. from E. “D” 6697et12-20-
Street             curb line                                                                             2005
1 space on High    100 ft. north of E. “D” Street curb line to a point 125 ft. from E. “D” 6697et12-20-
Street             curb line                                                                             2005
20 N. 78th Street  One space in the name of the applicant only                                     8884- 10-19-
                                                                                                   2020  2020
203 Abend Street   For current residents only                                                      8250- 9-17-
                                                                                                   2018  2018
115 E. “B” StreFrom 2 spaces in front of current building                                      7605  6-4-
                                                                                                         2012
314 E. "E" Street  In the name of the applicant only                                               8423- 2-18-
                                                                                                   2020  2020
126 N. Virginia    One space in front for current tenant only                                      6599  12-1-
Avenue                                                                                                   2003
720 Union Avenue   For current tenant only                                                         7753  3-3-
                                                                                                         2014
300 N. Charles     1 space in front of VFW Post 1739                                               8871- 9-21-
                                                                                                   2020  2020
311 E. Lincoln     One space                                                                       7445  11-15-
                                                                                                         2010
313 N. 5th Street  One space in the name of the applicant only                                     8883- 10-19-
                                                                                                   2020  2020
401 - 403 N.       In front as long as building is a church                                        6590  11-3-
Illinois Street                                                                                          2003
503 N. Jackson     One space in the name of the applicant only                                     8902- 12-21-
Street                                                                                             2020  2020
512 N. 1st Street  In front of building for current resident only                                  7896  10-5-
                                                                                                         2015
617 E. “B” StreFor the current resident only                                                   6486  12-2-
                                                                                                         2002
620 E. “B” StreOne space in front for current tenants only                                     6749  6-6-
                                                                                                         2005
809 Lucinda Avenue For Resident only                                                               7312  10-5-
                                                                                                         2009
812 N. Charles     One space in front for current tenant only                                      7015  9-4-
Street                                                                                                   2007
903 South Jackson  For current resident only                                                       8040- 4-3-
Street                                                                                             2017  2017
City Lot “F”   First 2 spaces at southeast entrance                                            5726  4-7-
                                                                                                         1997
E. “B” Street  In front of 613 E. “B” Street for current tenants only                      6406  4-1-
                                                                                                         2002
E. Lincoln Street  From a point 49 ft. east of the east curb line of S. High Street to a point 69  4950
(South)            ft. east of said curb line
E. Main Street     From a point beginning 70 ft. from the west curb line of S. Jackson Street to a 5699  2-17-
(South)            point 90 ft. from said curb line                                                      1997
E. Main Street     From a point 173 ft. west of west curb line of S. Church Street to a point 194  5395  3-20-
(South)            ft. west of said curb line                                                            1995
E. Main & N.       Northwest corner                                                                9094- 11-7-
Church St.                                                                                         2022  2022
Mascoutah Avenue   From a point 20 ft. from the south curb line of Garfield Street to a point 45   5678  1-6-
(East)             ft. south of said curb line                                                           1997
N. 6th Street      316 N. 6th Street (in name of applicant only)                                   8993- 9-21-
                                                                                                   2021  2021
N. 7th Street      409 N. 7th Street (in name of applicant only)                                   9315- 9-16-
                                                                                                   2024  2024
N. 8th Street      300 N. 8th Street for current resident only                                     7539  11-7-
                                                                                                         2011
N. Charles Street  At 902 S. Charles Street                                                        6268
N. Charles Street  909 N. Charles Street for current resident only                                 7539  11-7-
                                                                                                         2011
N. Church Street   The west side of the 100 block, north of the intersection of East A Street      9205- 10-16-
                                                                                                   2023  2023
N. Church Street   At 36 feet, 64 feet, and 100 feet - 123 feet.                                   9205- 10-16-
                                                                                                   2023  2023
N. Douglas Street  526 N. Douglas Street                                                           4999
N. Florida Street  116 N. Florida Avenue                                                           4995
N. Jackson Street  From a point 140 ft. south of the south curb line of E. “A” Street to a poin4287
(West)             160 ft. south of said curb line
S. 13th Street     From a point 70 ft. south of the south curb line of Union Avenue to a point 110 4950
(East)             ft. south of said curb line
S. 21st Street     In front of 523 S. 21st Street (for present tenants only)                       6395  3-4-
                                                                                                         2002
S. 2nd Street      From a point 16.7 ft. south of south curb line of W. Main Street to a point     5341  11-21-
(East)             36.5 ft. south of said curb line                                                      1994
S. Charles Street  From a point of 30 ft. from southwest corner to a point of 55 ft.               9307- 8-19-
                                                                                                   2024  2024
S. Illinois Street From a point 272 ft. south of the south curb line of Lincoln Street to a point  4950
(East)             316 ft. south of said curb line
S. Jackson Street  From a point 180 ft. south of the south curb line of E. Lincoln to a point 260  4287
(West)             ft. south of said curb line
Union Avenue       From a point 112 ft. to a point 152 ft. from the intersection of South 13th     9338- 11-4-
(South)            Street                                                                          2024  2024
W. “D” Street  From a point 122 ft. west of the west curb line of N. 2nd Street to a point 162 4950
(South)            ft. west of said curb line
W. Main Street     From a point 137 ft. west of west curb line of S. 1st Street to a point 160 ft. 5463
                   west of said curb line
W. Main Street     Two spaces at the northwest and southwest corners of West Main St. at 11th St.  8889- 11-16-
                                                                                                   2020  2020
W. Main Street     One space at the northeast corner of West Main St. at N. 10th St.               8889- 11-16-
(North)                                                                                            2020  2020
W. Main Street     From a point 27.2 ft. east of east curb line of S. 2nd Street to a point 52.7   5341  11-21-
(South)            ft. east of said curb line                                                            1994
W. Main Street     Two spaces at the northwest and southwest corners of West Main St. at 11th St.  8889- 11-16-
                                                                                                   2020  2020
W. Main Street     One space at the northeast corner of West Main St. at N. 10th St.               8889- 11-16-
(North)                                                                                            2020  2020
W. Washington      From S. Illinois Street (first meter south on west side.)                       4524
Street (West)
                  Across street from 316 South 16th Street (in the name of the applicant only)    9281- 5-20-
                                                                                                   2024  2024
                  700 St. Claire Avenue                                                           9379- 4-21-
                                                                                                   2025  2025
 
(1960 Code, Ch. 52, Schd. O) (Ord. 9158-2023, passed 6-5-2023; Ord. 9281-2024,
passed 5-20-2024; Ord. 9294-2024, passed 7-1-2024)
SCHEDULE VIII. ANGLE PARKING AREAS.
   In accordance with the provisions of §
74.06 of this traffic code, the following are hereby declared to be angle
parking streets; to-wit:
 
Street           Location                                Ord. No. Date Passed
                 Adjacent to the Old Town Market south
East Main Street side only on Saturdays from the first   6385     2-18-2002
                 Saturday in May to the last Saturday in
                 October
 
(1960 Code, Ch. 52, Schd. V)
CHAPTER 77: NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES
Section
   
77.01   Definitions
   
77.02   Non-highway vehicles on city streets
   
77.03   Requirements
   
77.04   Prohibited locations
   
77.05   Permits
 
   
77.99   Penalty
§ 77.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY STREETS. Any of the streets or roadways under the jurisdiction of the
City of Belleville and within the corporate city limits.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purposes of
transporting one or more persons and their golf clubs or maintenance equipment
while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising the play of golf or
maintaining the condition of the grounds on a public or private golf course.
   NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLE. A recreational off-highway vehicle or golf cart, as
defined in this chapter.
   RECREATIONAL OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway device designed
to travel primarily off-highway, 64 inches or less in width, having a
manufacturer's dry weight of 2,000 pounds or less, traveling on four or more
non-highway tires, designed with a non-straddle seat and a steering wheel for
steering control, except equipment such as lawnmowers.
   SEAT BELTS. A set of belts or harnesses meeting the specifications
established by the Illinois Department of Transportation and installed in such
manner as to prevent or materially reduce the movement of the person using the
belts or harness in the event of a collision or upset of the vehicle.
(Ord. 8209-2018, passed 6-18-2018)
§ 77.02 NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES ON CITY STREETS.
   Non-highway vehicles, as defined and qualified herein, shall be allowed on
city streets, subject to the conditions stated herein.
(Ord. 8209-2018, passed 6-18-2018) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.03 REQUIREMENTS.
   All persons operating a non-highway vehicle on the city streets, must comply
with the following requirements:
   (A)   Must possess at all times, proof of current liability insurance
meeting the requirements of Article VI of Chapter 7 of the Illinois Vehicle
Code.
   (B)   Must possess a non-highway vehicle permit from the city, after first
having the subject non-highway vehicle inspected by a city certified inspector.
   (C)   Must display city decal on the rear of the vehicle.
   (D)   Must have a current, valid Illinois driver's license.
   (E)   Must be equipped with the following items, with such items being fully
operational:
      (1)   Horn;
      (2)   Brakes adequate to stop such vehicle when traveling 20 miles per
hour within a distance of 30 feet when upon dry asphalt or concrete pavement
surface free from loose material;
      (3)   Brake lights;
      (4)   Turn signals;
      (5)   A steering wheel apparatus;
      (6)   Tires that do not have any part of a ply or cord exposed, have any
tread or sidewall crack, cut, snag, or other surface interruption deep enough
to expose a ply or cord, and do not contain any bulge, knot or separation;
      (7)   Seat belts;
      (8)   Rearview mirror;
      (9)   Approved "Slow Moving Vehicle" emblem on the rear of the vehicle
(625 ILCS 5/12-709);
      (10)   Two headlights that emit a white light visible from a distance of
500 feet to the front, which must illuminate when in operation;
      (11)   Tail lamp that emits a red light visible from at least 100 feet
from the rear, which must be illuminated when in operation;
      (12)   Any additional requirements which may be amended to Section 11-
1426.1 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/11-1426.1) or any other
provision of the Illinois Motor Vehicle Code.
   (F)   Must obey all traffic laws of the State of Illinois and the City of
Belleville.
   (G)   Must operate headlights and tail lamps at all times that the non-
highway vehicle is in use on the city streets.
   (H)   Shall not tow or pull any device or object behind the non-highway
vehicle.
   (I)   Shall only be operated on city streets, except where prohibited.
   (J)   If traveling in a group of two or more non-highway vehicles, the non-
highway vehicles must travel in a single file line and shall not travel side by
side.
   (K)   Shall not be operated more than the posted speed limit but not more
than 25 miles per hour.
   (L)   Shall not transport more passengers than the number of seat belts
installed on the non-highway vehicle.
   (M)   The operator and passengers must wear seat belts at all times during
operation.
   (N)   The operator and passengers shall not stand while the non-highway
vehicle is in operation.
   (O)   Shall not leave the key in the ignition when unattended or parked.
   (P)   A person operating or in actual physical control of a non-highway
vehicle as described herein on a roadway while under the influence is subject
to Section 11-500 through 11-502 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/11-
500 - 11-502).
(Ord. 8209-2018, passed 6-18-2018) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.04 PROHIBITED LOCATIONS.
   Operation of a non-highway vehicle is prohibited in the following locations:
   (A)   Any street, highway, or roadway that has a posted speed limit of more
than 35 miles per hour.
   (B)   Sidewalks.
   (C)   Any unpaved area of the city parks, unless the operator first receives
written authorization and/or a permit from the Chief of Police or their
designee for the operation of the non-highway vehicle at a special event.
   (D)   City bike trails.
   (E)   Any real private property within the city without written
authorization from the owner(s).
   (F)   The City Police Department non-highway vehicles are exempt from the
above prohibited locations in the performance of their law enforcement duties.
Other city non-highway vehicles are exempt from the prohibitions of §
77.05(B), (C), (D) and (E).
(Ord. 8209-2018, passed 6-18-2018) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.05 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a qualified non-highway vehicle without first
obtaining a permit from the City Clerk, as provided herein. The City Police
Department and other city non-highway vehicles are exempt from displaying a
city permit. A permit is valid for one non-highway vehicle from May 1st through
April 30th of the following year. The cost of the permit shall be $30. Permits
shall expire on April 30th of each year. A permit purchased after October 31st
shall have a pro-rated cost of $15.
   (B)   Every application for a permit shall be made on a form supplied by the
city and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant.
      (2)   Name of liability insurance carrier and insurance policy number.
      (3)   The serial number, make, model and description of the non-highway
vehicle.
      (4)   Signed waiver of liability by applicant releasing the city and
agreeing to indemnify and hold the city harmless from any and all future claims
resulting from the operation of applicant's non-highway vehicle on the city
streets.
      (5)   Photocopy of applicable liability insurance coverage card,
specifically for the non-highway vehicle to be operated pursuant to the permit.
      (6)   A physically handicapped applicant must submit a certificate signed
by a physician, certifying that the applicant is able to safely operate a
qualified non-highway vehicle on city streets.
      (7)   Such other information as the city may require.
   (C)   No new permit shall be granted unless the following conditions are
met:
      (1)   The non-highway vehicle must be inspected and approved by City
Police Department designated personnel.
      (2)   A physically handicapped applicant must submit a certificate signed
by a physician, certifying that the applicant is able to safely operate a
qualified non-highway vehicle on city streets.
      (3)   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance in compliance with
the provisions of Illinois law regarding minimum liability insurance for
passenger motor vehicles to be operated on the roads of the State of Illinois.
      (4)   The applicant must provide a copy of the driver’s license of the
applicant and each operator.
      (5)   The city may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder upon a
finding that the holder thereof has violated any provision of this chapter, or
there is evidence the permittee cannot safely operate a qualified non-highway
vehicle on the designated roadways.
(Ord. 8209-2018, passed 6-18-2018; Ord. 8953-2021, passed 6-21-2021) Penalty,
see §
77.99
§ 77.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an
ordinance violation and shall be punished by a fine of not less than $75, nor
more than $250. A second offense within a 24 month period shall result in a six
month suspension of the permit. Any third or subsequent offense within a 24
month period shall result in the revocation of the permit for a period of not
less than one year. To the extent that any violation of this chapter also
constitutes a violation of a criminal statute of the State of Illinois, then
the violator shall also be subject to criminal prosecution.
(Ord. 8209-2018, passed 6-18-2018)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
91.   CEMETERIES
      
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
93.   NUISANCES
      
94.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animal shelters; permits
   
90.03   Restraint
   
90.04   Confinement of vicious or dangerous animals
   
90.05   Impoundment and violation notice
   
90.06   Animal care
   
90.07   Keeping of wild animals
   
90.08   Performing animal exhibitions
   
90.09   Pets or other animals at public events and places
   
90.10   Teasing, striking or tampering with police dogs prohibited
   
90.11   Injuring or killing police dogs prohibited
   
90.12   Tethering dog regulations
   
90.13   Microchipping
Beekeeping
   
90.25   Definitions
   
90.26   Hives
   
90.27   Registration
   
90.28   Fencing, gates and signage
   
90.29   Water
   
90.30   Maintenance
   
90.31   Queens
   
90.32   Colony densities
Managed Care of Feral Cats
   
90.50   Definitions
   
90.51   Purpose and requirements
Urban Chickens
   
90.60   Definitions
   
90.61   Permit required
   
90.62   Number and type of chickens allowed
   
90.63   Permits restricted to single-family dwellings
   
90.64   Non-commercial use only
   
90.65   Enclosures
   
90.66   Odor and noise impacts
   
90.67   Predators, rodents, insects and parasites
   
90.68   Feed and water
   
90.69   Waste storage and removal
   
90.70   Chickens at large
   
90.71   Unlawful acts
   
90.72   Nuisance
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances defined, see §
93.002
   Nuisances prohibited, see §
93.001
   Zoning, see
Ch. 162
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL AT LARGE. Any animal not secured by a leash or lead or under the
control of a responsible person and off the premises of the owner.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The employee of the city responsible for the
enforcement of this subchapter and all other applicable Animal Control laws and
regulations.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any facility operated by a humane society of the county, or
its authorized agents, for the purpose of impounding animals under the
authority of this subchapter for care, confinement, return to owner, adoption
or euthanasia.
   BITE. To cut with teeth.
   CIRCUS. A commercial variety show featuring animal acts for public
entertainment.
   CONFINEMENT STRUCTURE.
      (1)   A securely locked pen, kennel or structure designed and constructed
for the keeping of a vicious or dangerous animal(s), which shall be designed,
constructed and maintained in accordance with 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
      (2)   All structures erected to house vicious or dangerous dogs must
comply with all zoning and building regulations.
      (3)   All such structures must be adequately lighted, ventilated and kept
in a clean and sanitary condition.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. An animal of a species that has been bred and raised to
live in or about the habitation of humans and is dependent on people for food
and shelter.
   KENNEL. Any premises wherein any person engages in the business of boarding,
breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee or selling animals. It
shall consist of more than three dogs, cats or other domestic animals over four
months of age.
   LEASH. A cord, chain, rope, strap or other such physical restraint having a
tensile strength reasonably capable of controlling the animal under restraint.
   MUZZLE. A device constructed of strong, soft material or metal, made in a
manner which will not cause injury to the animal(s) or interfere with its
vision or respiration, but prevents it from biting any person or animal.
   OWNER. Any person, partnership, association or corporation or agent thereof
owning, keeping or harboring one or more animals. An animal shall be deemed to
be harbored if it is fed or sheltered for 30 consecutive days or more.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE or PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMAL.
      (1)   Any animal or animals that unreasonably annoy humans, endanger the
life or health of any other animal or person or substantially interfere with
the rights of citizens, other than their owners, to enjoyment of life or
property. The term PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMAL shall mean and include, but is not
limited to: any animal that is repeatedly found at large; attacks other
domestic animals; damages the property of anyone other than its owner; molests
or intimidates pedestrians or passerby; chases vehicles or cycles; excessively
makes disturbing noises, including, but not limited to, continued and repeated
howling, barking, whining or other utterances causing unreasonable annoyance,
disturbance or discomfort to neighbors or others in close proximity to the
premises where the animal is kept or harbored for a continuous period in excess
of ten minutes; or has been determined by the city’s Animal Control Officer,
after notice to its owner, to be a PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMAL by virtue of being a
menace to the public health, welfare or safety.
      (2)   The term PUBLIC NUISANCE shall mean and including, but not be
limited to, a condition which causes fouling of the air by odor and thereby
creates unreasonable annoyance, or discomfort to neighbors or others in close
proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored; causes
unsanitary conditions in enclosures or surroundings where the animal is kept or
harbored; is offensive or dangerous to the public health, safety or welfare by
virtue of the number and/or types of animals maintained.
   RESTRAINT. Any animal secured by a leash or lead or under the control of a
responsible person and obedient to that person’s commands, or within the real
property limits of its owner(s).
   VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS DOG OR CAT. Any individual dog or cat which when either
unmuzzled, unleashed or unattended by its owner or a person responsible for the
animal’s care, in a vicious or terrorizing manner, approaches any person in an
apparent of attack upon streets, sidewalks or any public grounds or places. The
Police Department shall cause such dog or cat to be destroyed.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any member of a species not customarily used as an ordinary
household pet, but which would ordinarily be confined to a zoo or one which
could ordinarily be found in the wilderness of this or any other country, or
one which otherwise causes a reasonable person to be fearful of bodily harm or
property damages. A WILD ANIMAL shall include, but not be limited to, any
poisonous reptile or any other dangerous or carnivorous wild animal or reptile,
except fish in an aquarium or captive-bred species of common cage birds.
(1960 Code, § 13-1-1) (Ord. 7217, passed 1-5-2009)
§ 90.02 ANIMAL SHELTERS; PERMITS.
   (A)   No person, partnership or corporation residing in the city shall
operate a commercial animal establishment or animal shelter without first
obtaining approval in compliance with the city’s Zoning Code and obtaining the
required approval and permits from the state.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to keep or harbor
within the city more than three domestic animals over six months of age at a
single residence. This limitation shall not apply to any person, group of
persons or corporation lawfully engaged in the commercial business of breeding,
buying, selling or boarding dogs or operating a veterinary hospital or a
chartered animal shelter.
(1960 Code, § 13-1-2) (Ord. 7217, passed 1-5-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 RESTRAINT.
   (A)   All animals shall be kept under restraint.
   (B)   No owner shall fail to exercise proper care and control of his or her
domestic animal(s) to prevent them from becoming a public nuisance.
   (C)   Every domestic animal in heat shall be confined in a building or
secure enclosure in such a manner that such animal(s) cannot come into contact
with another animal, except for planned breeding.
   (D)   Officers of the Police Department or an Animal Control Officer shall
be authorized to destroy or tranquilize any dangerous or vicious animal or
animal in heat when necessary for the protection of any person or property.
(1960 Code, § 13-1-3) (Ord. 7217, passed 1-5-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 CONFINEMENT OF VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   No person shall possess any vicious or dangerous dog unless the vicious or
dangerous dog is confined or restrained in compliance with 510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
(1960 Code, § 13-1-4) (Ord. 7217, passed 1-5-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 IMPOUNDMENT AND VIOLATION NOTICE.
   (A)   Unrestrained dogs and nuisance animals found running at large by
officers of the Police Department or Animal Control shall be presumed to be in
violation of this section and shall be subject to impoundment by Animal Control
in accordance with the county’s Animal Control regulations.
   (B)   Impounded animals shall be kept at the county’s Animal Control and
fall under the rules and regulations of the county’s Animal Control.
   (C)   The owner of an impounded animal may also be prosecuted for any
violation of this subchapter.
   (D)   Every case in which an animal bites a person shall be promptly
reported to the Police Department and county Animal Control. Investigation of
such bites shall be conducted by the Police Department and county Animal
Control and quarantine of any involved animals shall be in accordance with 510
ILCS 5/13.
(1960 Code, § 13-1-5) (Ord. 7217, passed 1-5-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 ANIMAL CARE.
   (A)   Proper care. No owner shall fail to provide his or her animal(s) with
food or water in sufficient quantities, proper air, shelter space and
protection from the weather, veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering
and humane care and treatment, to include rabies vaccination and registration
with county Animal Control.
   (B)   Animal abuse. No person shall beat, cruelly treat, torment, overload,
overwork or to otherwise abuse an animal or knowingly allow same to be done.
   (C)   Animal transportation. No person shall carry or keep any animal bound
or tied by its legs or bound down by the neck so that it cannot freely stand in
an upright position while being transported, or by carrying or keeping any
animal(s) in a crate or cage so constructed as to permit the animal(s) to push
its head between the slats or wires or other openings of the crate or cage,
unless the spaces between the slats or wires are also sufficient to permit the
animal(s) to freely withdraw its head therefrom.
   (D)   Animals as prizes. No person shall give away any live animal(s), fish,
reptile or bird: as a prize for, or as an inducement to enter, any contest,
game or other competition; as an inducement to enter a place of amusement; or
as an incentive to enter into any business agreement whereby the offer was for
the purpose of attracting trade, except for special circumstances with
permission granted by the Mayor.
   (E)   Exposing poison. No person shall expose any known poisonous substance,
whether mixed with food or not, so that the same is accessible and may be eaten
by any animal; provided that, it shall be lawful for a person to expose on his
or her own property common rat poison mixed only with vegetable substance.
   (F)   Farm animals. No person shall keep any goats, pigs, sheep, cattle or
other farm animals of any kind anywhere in the city. No person shall raise,
maintain or have upon any property within the city any ducks, geese, guinea
hens, pigeons and other similar fowl. Except as otherwise expressly permitted
under this chapter, no person shall raise, maintain or have upon any property
within the city any chicken. This limitation shall not apply to any person or
persons within the city limits who, on the date of the enactment of this
subchapter, own farm animals which is at least 150 feet of any residence other
than the residence of the person so keeping or having such animals. This
limitation shall not apply to those premises annexed to the city; and, provided
that, the farm animals were kept on the premises on the date of such annexation
and continuously thereafter; and, provided further that, such premises have
remained the same size as when first annexed to the city. However, this shall
not be construed to allow such person or persons to replace farm animals upon
the death or loss of such animal with a like number of farm animals.
   (G)   Horse stables. No person, firm or corporation may stable or otherwise
keep a horse or horses anywhere in the city, except on premises where keeping
of horses was lawful under the ordinances of the county at the time such
premises were annexed to the city and provided that horses were kept on the
premises on the date of such annexation and continuously thereafter; and,
provided further that, such premises have remained the same size as when first
annexed to the city.
   (H)   Diseased animals. No animal infested with any disease, whether
contagious or pestilential, shall be brought into the city or shall be allowed
to remain in the city without proper medical care being sought by the owner.
   (I)   Injury of owned at large animals. Any person who allows his or her
animal(s) to run at large is responsible for veterinary fees if the animal is
injured by a motor vehicle.
   (J)   Giving away animals in public places. It is a violation to give away
dogs or cats in public places including, but not limited to, a grocery store,
drugstore, shopping centers or swap meets.
   (K)   Dead animals. Any person being the owner or occupant of any premises
within the city having a dead animal on the premises shall, within 24 hours,
remove or cause the removal of the dead animal. Failure to remove the dead
animal will result in the Sanitation Department removing such animal and
charging the owner of the animal, and/or placing a lien on the property of the
owner.
   (L)   Animal waste. The owner of every animal shall be responsible for the
removal of any excrement deposited by the animal(s) on public walks, streets,
recreation areas, private property or any other property located within the
city.
   (M)   Hunting, trapping and the like. No person shall hunt, kill, entrap,
injure or destroy by any means any bird or animal within the city limits,
unless first having obtained permission from the Chief of Police and the state.
Humane trapping by the humane society, Animal Control, Police Department or
their designees shall be exempt from this provision.
   (N)   Feeding stray animals. No person shall willingly feed stray domestic
animals whereby allowing the animals to continue to run at large, except as
permitted under §
90.51 of this Code.
(1960 Code, § 13-1-6) (Ord. 7217, passed 1-5-2009; Ord. 7348, passed 1-19-2010;
Ord. 8118-2017, passed 11-6-2017; Ord. 9189-2023, passed 9-18-2023) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.07 KEEPING OF WILD ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall own, possess or have custody of any wild animal for
display, training or exhibition purposes, whether gratuitously or for a fee.
   (B)   No person shall keep or permit to be kept any wild animal as a pet.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to licenses to pet
shops and circuses, if:
      (1)   The location conforms to the provisions of the zoning ordinances of
the city;
      (2)   All animals and animal quarters are kept in a clean and sanitary
condition, well ventilated conditions that allow the animal room to exercise,
and so maintained as to eliminate objectionable odors; and
      (3)   No person lives or resides within 150 feet of the quarters in which
the animals are kept.
(1960 Code, § 13-1-7) (Ord. 7217, passed 1-5-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 PERFORMING ANIMAL EXHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall fight or bait, conspire to fight or bait, or keep,
train or transport for the purpose of fighting or baiting any dog or other
animal.
   (B)   (1)   No person may sponsor, promote, train an animal to participate
in, contribute to the involvement of any animal in or attend as a spectator any
activity or event in which any animal engages in unnatural behavior or is
wrestled, fought, mentally or physically harassed or displayed in such a way
that the animal is abused or stresses mentally or physically or is induced or
encouraged to perform through the use of chemical, mechanical, electrical or
manual devices in a manner that will cause or is likely to cause physical
injury or suffering.
      (2)   This prohibition applies to events and activities taking place in
either public or private facilities, and applied regardless of the purpose of
the event or activities and irrespective of whether or not a fee is charged to
spectators.
(1960 Code, § 13-1-8) (Ord. 7217, passed 1-5-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 PETS OR OTHER ANIMALS AT PUBLIC EVENTS AND PLACES.
   (A)   Pets or other animals shall not be allowed in the confines of any city
approved public event, including, but not limited to, school picnics, parades,
sidewalk fairs, organized events and activities scheduled on the public square/
downtown area, open to the public. The following types of animals are excluded
from this section: seeing eye dogs and other working animals; animals
participating in the public event; animals approved by the sponsoring group.
   (B)   A violation of this section shall be a petty offense.
(1960 Code, § 13-1-9) (Ord. 7217, passed 1-5-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 TEASING, STRIKING OR TAMPERING WITH POLICE DOGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously taunt,
torment, tease, beat, strike, administer or subject any desensitizing drugs,
chemicals or substance to any dog used by a law enforcement officer in the
performance of his or her functions or duties, or when placed in a kennel off
duty; or to interfere or meddle with any such dog used by law enforcement
department or agency or any handler thereof in the performance of the duty or
functions of said department or agency.
(1960 Code, § 13-1-10) (Ord. 7217, passed 1-5-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 INJURING OR KILLING POLICE DOGS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully or maliciously
torture, mutilate, injure, disable, poison or kill any dog used by a law
enforcement department or agency in the performance of the functions or duties
of such department or when placed in a kennel off duty.
   (B)   However, a police officer or veterinarian may perform euthanasia in
emergency situations when delay would cause the dog undue suffering and pain.
(1960 Code, § 13-1-11) (Ord. 7217, passed 1-5-2009) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 TETHERING DOG REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations shall be applicable to owners and guardians of
dogs in their care.
   (A)   A dog that is outside for one hour or more, whether fenced, kenneled
or tethered shall have proper food, water and shelter. Owners and guardians
shall be responsible for the welfare of their pets in severe heat, cold, rain,
snow, ice and wind.
   (B)   No dog shall be tethered within 50 feet of a school, daycare or school
bus stop.
   (C)   No dog shall be tethered on any public easement or public access to
private property.
   (D)   No dog shall be tethered on private property within ten feet of public
or neighboring property.
   (E)   No dog shall be tethered on land without a dwelling or a vacant
dwelling.
   (F)   No dog shall be left inside a vacant dwelling.
   (G)   No more than three dogs may be tethered on one residential property.
   (H)   No more than one dog shall be attached to a tether.
   (I)   A properly constructed fence, of a height and strength that prevents
the dog from jumping, climbing or digging out and running at large, is
acceptable containment and shall be maintained.
   (J)   A properly constructed kennel, of a height and strength that prevents
the dog from jumping, climbing or digging out and running at large, is
acceptable containment if the following conditions are met. The dimensions of
the kennel shall be dictated by the size of the dog. The kennel shall have a
doghouse large enough for the dog to stand and turn around, with roof, four
sides and solid floor three inches above the ground. The acceptable kennel size
is 125 square feet per dog of under 50 pounds.
   (K)   Tethering shall not be used as permanent means of containment for any
companion pet.
   (L)   Tethering shall be acceptable under the following conditions.
      (1)   Trolley or pulley types of tethering systems are recommended.
      (2)   Fixed point tethers shall be acceptable upon inspection and
approval by Animal Control.
      (3)   All tethers will be a minimum of 15 feet in length and no more than
one-eighth the dog’s weight.
      (4)   The tether shall have a swivel mechanism on both ends and attached
to a properly fitting, non-metal, buckle type collar or a harness.
      (5)   No pinch or choke collars shall be allowed.
      (6)   No tether shall be directly attached to the dog.
   (M)   No dog shall be tethered longer than ten continuous hours or 12 hours
in any 24-hour period.
   (N)   Owners shall be responsible to maintain a clean and healthy
environment on their property and provide medical treatment when needed.
(1960 Code, § 13-1-13) (Ord. 7217, passed 1-5-2009; Ord. 7622, passed 8-6-2012)
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13 MICROCHIPPING.
   (A)   All dogs impounded for running at large for a second time shall be
microchipped at the owner’s expense. The fee shall be $15 per dog. A dog found
running at large a third time shall be spayed or neutered within 30 days of
being reclaimed.
   (B)   The owner’s failure to comply with this section shall result in the
impoundment of the dog.
(1960 Code, § 13-1-14) (Ord. 7217, passed 1-5-2009; Ord. 7711, passed 9-3-2013)
BEEKEEPING
§ 90.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APIARY. A place where bee colonies are kept.
   BEE. Any stage of the common domestic honeybee, Apis mellifera species.
   COLONY. A hive and its equipment and appurtenances, including bees, comb,
honey, pollen and brood.
   HIVE. A structure intended for the housing of a bee colony.
(1960 Code, § 26-7-1) (Ord. 7066, passed 1-8-2008)
§ 90.26 HIVES.
   All bee colonies shall be kept in inspectable type hives with removable
combs, which shall be kept in sound and usable condition.
(1960 Code, § 26-7-2) (Ord. 7066, passed 1-8-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.27 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Beekeepers shall register with the city upon bringing any colony into
the city. For bee colonies existing within the city prior to the effective date
of this subchapter, beekeepers shall have one month from the date this
subchapter went into effect to register with the city for beekeeping.
Registrations shall be submitted to the Health, Housing and Building Office.
   (B)   At the time of registration, the applicant shall:
      (1)   Submit proof of registration of the colonies with the state’s
Department of Agriculture;
      (2)   Be in compliance with the other requirements of this subchapter;
and
      (3)   Provide a drawing of beehives in relation to property lines,
distance from neighbors and permanent structures.
(1960 Code, § 26-7-3) (Ord. 7066, passed 1-8-2008; Ord. 8954-2021, passed 6-21-
2021)
§ 90.28 FENCING, GATES AND SIGNAGE.
   All hives shall be enclosed by fencing with a secure gate and prominent
signage warning of the presence of a hive.
(1960 Code, § 26-7-4) (Ord. 7066, passed 1-8-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.29 WATER.
   Each beekeeper shall ensure that a convenient source of water is available
at all times to the bees so that the bees will not congregate at swimming
pools, bibcocks, pet water bowls, birdbaths or other water sources where they
may cause human, bird or domestic pet contract. The water shall be maintained
so as not to become stagnant.
(1960 Code, § 26-7-5) (Ord. 7066, passed 1-8-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.30 MAINTENANCE.
   Each beekeeper shall ensure that no bee comb or other materials that might
encourage robbing are left upon the grounds of the apiary site. Upon their
removal from the hive, all such materials shall promptly be disposed of in a
sealed container or placed within a building or other bee-proof enclosure.
(1960 Code, § 26-7-6) (Ord. 7066, passed 1-8-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.31 QUEENS.
   In any instance in which a colony exhibits unusually aggressive
characteristics by stinging or attempting to sting without due provocation, or
exhibits an unusual disposition towards swarming, it shall be the duty of the
beekeeper to requeen the colony. Queens shall be selected from stock bred for
gentleness and non-swarming characteristics.
(1960 Code, § 26-7-7) (Ord. 7066, passed 1-8-2008)
§ 90.32 COLONY DENSITIES.
   (A)   There shall be no more than two apiary sites in each ward in the city.
   (B)   For each two colonies, there may be maintained one nucleus colony in a
hive structure not exceeding one standard nine and five-eighths inch depth ten-
frame hive body with no supers attached, as required from time to time for
management of swarms. Each such nucleus colony shall be disposed of or combined
with an authorized colony within 30 days after the date it is acquired.
   (C)   The keeping by any person of bee colonies in the city not in
compliance with this subchapter is prohibited. Any bee colony not residing in a
hive structure intended for beekeeping, or any swarm of bees, or any colony
residing in a standard or homemade hive which, by virtue of its condition, has
obviously been abandoned by the beekeeper, is unlawful.
(1960 Code, § 26-7-8) (Ord. 7066, passed 1-8-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
MANAGED CARE OF FERAL CATS
§ 90.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMUNITY CAT. Any free-roaming, feral, or barn cat that may be cared for by
one or more residents of the immediate area and which has no discernible form
of ownership identification. COMMUNITY CAT includes a domesticated cat that an
owner has forsaken entirely or neglected or for which an owner has refused to
provide care and support.
   COMMUNITY CAT CAREGIVER. A person who provides care, including food, water,
shelter or medical care to a community cat. A community cat caregiver shall not
be considered to be the owner, custodian, harborer, controller, or keeper of a
community cat.
   EARTIPPING. The removal of the one-quarter inch tip of community cat's ear,
performed while under anesthesia, under the supervision of a licensed
veterinarian and designed to be an indication that the community cat has been
sterilized and vaccinated for rabies.
   FERAL CAT. A cat that (i) is born in the wild or is the offspring of an
owned or feral cat and is not socialized or (ii) is a formerly owned cat that
has been abandoned and is no longer socialized, or (iii) lives on a farm.
   FERAL CAT COLONY. A group of cats that congregates, more or less, together
as a unit. Although not every cat in a colony may be feral, any nonferal cats
that congregate with a colony shall be deemed to be a part of it.
(Ord. 8118-2017, passed 11-6-2017)
§ 90.51 PURPOSE AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In order to permit implementation of a community cat program (CCP) in
the city for the purpose of reducing the population of feral and free roaming
cats, benefitting public health, improving the quality of life for residents,
and ensuring the humane treatment of community cats, the following requirements
are hereby imposed in the city:
      (1)   All community cats must be cared for on the private property of the
caregiver or with the permission from the owner or property manager if cared
for on the property of another.
      (2)   All community cat caregivers shall make reasonable efforts to have
all free-roaming cats within their care sterilized, vaccinated against rabies,
and ear-tipped for easy identification.
      (3)   All community cat caregivers are required to make reasonable
efforts to provide certain necessities to each community cat under his/her care
on a regular/ongoing basis, including, but not limited to, proper nutrition,
adequate quantities of visibly clean and fresh water and medical care as
needed. If medical care is unavailable or too expensive, the community cat
caregiver must not allow the cat to suffer. Dumping on the ground or dispensing
large quantities of food more than will be immediately eaten by the community
cats present is prohibited. Feeding areas must be maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition.
      (4)   Community cat caregivers shall make reasonable attempts to remove
young kittens from the field for domestication.
   (B)   The Animal Control Officer shall have the right to remove or authorize
the removal of any free-roaming cat or community cat because of immediate
public health or safety concerns.
   (C)   No community cat shall be released at any governmentally owned or
managed park, natural area, area deemed as environmentally sensitive land or on
any easement adjacent to such lands without approval from the Animal Control
Officer.
   (D)   Healthy community cats that have been impounded by the Animal Control
Officer are exempt from any holding period under §
90.05 of this Code and shall be immediately returned to the location at which
they were found or released to a caregiver, community cats shall be sterilized,
ear tipped while under anesthesia under the supervision of a licensed
veterinarian, and vaccinated for rabies. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
whenever such cat is visibly injured or diseased and appears to be suffering
and it reasonably appears that such cat cannot be expeditiously cured and
returned to the field, transferred to a humane society or private animal
nonprofit organization or placed in foster care, then the Animal Control
Officer, acting in good faith and upon reasonable belief, may humanely
euthanize the cat upon the advice of a licensed veterinarian.
   (E)   Community cats released to a caregiver in accordance with division (D)
of this section shall not be subject to the requirements of §
90.05 of this Code.
   (F)   Community cat caregivers shall not be subject to the provisions of §
90.06(N) of this Code, provided that permission from the property owner has
been obtained to care for community cats on the property.
(Ord. 8118-2017, passed 11-6-2017) Penalty, see §
90.99
URBAN CHICKENS
§ 90.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHICKEN. A member of the subspecies gaiius galius domesticus, a domesticated
fowl.
   PERMITTED TRACT OF LAND. The tract of land as identified by the application
upon which a permit is granted for keeping chickens pursuant to this
subchapter.
   PERMITTEE. An applicant who has been granted a permit to raise, harbor or
keep chickens pursuant to this subchapter.
   PERMITTING OFFICER. The Mayor or his or her designee.
   TRACT OF LAND. A property or a zoned lot that has one single-family dwelling
located on that property or zoned lot.
   URBAN CHICKEN. A chicken kept on a permitted tract of land pursuant to a
permit issued under this subchapter.
(Ord. 9189-2023, passed 9-18-2023)
§ 90.61 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall raise, harbor or keep chickens within
the city limits without a valid permit obtained from the permitting officer
under the provisions of this subchapter. Such permits are issued for a period
of one year and must be renewed annually. Such permits shall be limited to 50
for the entirety of the city.
   (B)   Application. In order to obtain a permit, an applicant must submit a
completed application on form(s) provided by the permitting officer, and pay
all fees required by this subchapter. The application fee is $25.
   (C)   Requirements. The requirements for the receipt of a permit include:
      (1)   All requirements of this subchapter are satisfied;
      (2)   All fees, as may be provided for from time to time by City Council
action, for the permit are paid in full;
      (3)   All fees, fines and/or judgments due and owing the city by the
applicant have been paid in full;
      (4)   The tract of land to be permitted shall contain one single-family
dwelling owned, occupied and used as such by the permittee in full compliance
with all applicable provisions of this code; and
      (5)   Inspection and approval by the Director of Health, Housing and
Building or designated employee confirming that the enclosure is compliant with
this subchapter.
   (D)   Issuance of permit. If the permitting officer concludes as a result of
the information contained in the application and reflected in the inspection
that the requirements for a permit have been met, then the officer shall issue
the permit.
   (E)   Denial, suspension, revocation, nonrenewal. The permitting officer may
deny, suspend, revoke or decline to renew any permit issued for any of the
following grounds:
      (1)   False statements on any application or other information or report
required by this section to be given by the applicant;
      (2)   Failure to pay any application, penalty, reinspection or
reinstatement fee required by this section or City Council action;
      (3)   Failure to correct deficiencies identified in notices of violation
within the time specified in the notice;
      (4)   Failure to comply with the provisions of an approved mitigation/
remediation plan by the permitting officer, or designee; or
      (5)   Failure to comply with any provision of this subchapter.
   (F)   Notification. A decision to revoke, suspend, deny or not renew a
permit shall be in writing, delivered by ordinary mail or in person to the
address indicated on the application. The notification shall specify reasons
for the action.
   (G)   Effect of revocation, and the like. When an application for a permit
is denied, or when a permit is revoked, the applicant may not reapply for a new
permit for a period of one year from the date of the denial or revocation.
   (H)   Appeals. No permit may be denied, suspended, revoked or not renewed
without notice and an opportunity to be heard is given the applicant or holder
of the permit. In any instance where the permitting officer has denied,
revoked, suspended or not renewed a permit, the applicant or holder of urban
chicken may appeal the decision to the Mayor, or designee other than the
permitting officer within ten business days of receipt by the applicant or
holder of the permit of the notice of the decision. The applicant or holder of
the permit will be given an opportunity for a hearing. The decision of the
officer hearing the appeal, or any decision by the permitting officer which is
not appealed in accordance with this subchapter shall be deemed final action.
(Ord. 9189-2023, passed 9-18-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.62 NUMBER AND TYPE OF CHICKENS ALLOWED.
   (A)   The maximum number of chickens allowed is six per tract of land
regardless of how many dwelling units are on the tract.
   (B)   Only female chickens (hens) are allowed.
(Ord. 9189-2023, passed 9-18-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.63 PERMITS RESTRICTED TO SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   Permits will be granted only to permittees legally occupying single-family
dwellings within any zoning district in the city, and are specific to said
single-family dwelling and not transferrable.
(Ord. 9189-2023, passed 9-18-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.64 NON-COMMERCIAL USE ONLY.
   A permittee may only maintain urban chickens under this subchapter for
purely domestic purposes. A permit shall not allow the permittee to engage in
chicken fighting, breeding, slaughtering or fertilizer production for
commercial purposes. Nor shall the permittee sell the eggs and/or by-products
produced.
(Ord. 9189-2023, passed 9-18-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.65 ENCLOSURES.
   (A)   Chickens must be kept in an enclosure or fenced area at all times.
Chickens shall be secured within a hen house or chicken tractor during non-
daylight hours.
   (B)   Enclosures must be kept in a clean, dry, odor-free, neat and sanitary
condition at all times.
   (C)   Hen houses, chicken tractors and chicken pens must provide adequate
ventilation and adequate sun and shade and must be impermeable to rodents, wild
birds and predators, including dogs and cats.
   (D)   Hen houses and chicken tractors shall be designed to provide safe and
healthy living conditions for the chickens with a minimum of four square feet
per chicken while minimizing adverse impacts to other residents in the
neighborhood.
      (1)   A hen house or chicken tractor shall be enclosed on all sides and
shall have a roof and doors. Access doors must be able to be shut and locked at
night. Opening windows and vents must be covered with predator and bird proof
wire of less than one-inch opening.
      (2)   The materials used in making a hen house or chicken tractor shall
be uniform for each element of the structure such that the walls are made of
the same material, the roof has the same shingles or other covering, and any
windows or openings are constructed using the same materials. The use of scrap,
waste board, sheet metal or similar materials is prohibited. Hen houses and
chicken tractors shall be well maintained.
   (E)   Hen houses, chicken tractors and chicken pens shall only be located in
the rear yard, with ten foot setback from all property lines and within the
required setbacks as required by the zoning code.
   (F)   Hen houses, chicken tractors and chicken pens may not exceed six feet
in height, and must be located at least ten feet from any adjacent residential
dwelling, church, school or place of business.
   (G)   Any enclosed chicken pen shall consist of sturdy wire fencing. The pen
must be covered with wire, aviary netting or solid roofing.
(Ord. 9189-2023, passed 9-18-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.66 ODOR AND NOISE IMPACTS.
   (A)   Odors from chickens, chicken manure or other chicken related
disturbances shall not be perceptible beyond the boundaries of the permitted
tract of land.
   (B)   Noise from chickens shall not be loud enough beyond the boundaries of
the permitted tract of land at the property boundaries to disturb persons of
reasonable sensitivity.
(Ord. 9189-2023, passed 9-18-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.67 PREDATORS, RODENTS, INSECTS AND PARASITES.
   The permittee shall take necessary action to reduce the attraction of
predators and rodents and the potential infestation of insects and parasites.
Chickens found to be infested with insects and parasites that may result in
unhealthy conditions to human habitation may be removed by appropriate
authorities.
(Ord. 9189-2023, passed 9-18-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.68 FEED AND WATER.
   Chickens shall be provided with access to feed and clean water at all times.
The feed and water shall be maintained in containers unavailable to rodents,
wild birds and predators.
(Ord. 9189-2023, passed 9-18-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.69 WASTE STORAGE AND REMOVAL.
   All areas where chickens are kept shall be maintained in a safe, clean and
sanitary condition and free of accumulation of waste. All stored manure shall
be covered by a fully enclosed structure with a roof or lid over the entire
structure. No more than three cubic feet of manure shall be stored on the
permitted tract of land. All other manure not used for composting or
fertilizing shall be removed. The hen house, chicken tractor, chicken pen and
surrounding area must be kept free from trash and accumulated droppings.
Uneaten feed shall be removed in a timely manner. Dead chickens must be
disposed of in a manner that does not endanger the public health and safety.
(Ord. 9189-2023, passed 9-18-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.70 CHICKENS AT LARGE.
   The permittee shall not allow the permittee's chickens to roam off the
permitted tract of land. A dog or cat or other domesticated animal that kills a
chicken off the permitted tract of land shall not, for that reason alone, be
considered a dangerous or aggressive animal, or elicit responsibility on the
part of the city to enforce its animal control provisions.
(Ord. 9189-2023, passed 9-18-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.71 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep chickens in violation of
any provision of this subchapter or any other provision of this code.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of property to allow chickens to be
kept on the property in violation of the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   No person shall keep chickens inside a residential structure,
including a garage.
   (D)   No person shall keep a rooster.
   (E)   No person shall keep chickens on a vacant or uninhabited tract of
land.
(Ord. 9189-2023, passed 9-18-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.72 NUISANCE.
   Any violation of the terms of this subchapter that constitutes a health
hazard or that interferes with the use or enjoyment of neighboring property is
a nuisance and may be abated under general nuisance abatement provisions.
(Ord. 9189-2023, passed 9-18-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In addition to the specified penalties herein, any person violating
any provision of §§
90.01 through 90.13 of this chapter may be prosecuted and found guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not less than $250 and not more than $750,
and relinquishment of ownership of the involved animal(s).
(1960 Code, § 13-1-12) (Ord. 7217, passed 1-5-2009)
CHAPTER 91: CEMETERIES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Municipal cemeteries
   
91.02   Board; appointment and duties
   
91.03   Care Fund; maintenance
Superintendent of Cemeteries
   
91.15   Superintendent of Cemeteries
   
91.16   Subordinates
   
91.17   Appointment
   
91.18   Duties
   
91.19   Graves
Fees and Charges
   
91.30   Fees or gratuities
   
91.31   Care of lots
   
91.32   Cemetery fees
   
91.33   Foundation charges
Regulations
   
91.45   Improvements in Walnut Hill and Mt. Hope Cemetery
   
91.46   Shooting and trespassing
   
91.47   Malicious mischief
   
91.48   Obstructing streets
   
91.49   Work for hire prohibited
   
91.50   Closing of cemetery
   
91.51   Location of cemeteries
   
91.52   One body per grave
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 MUNICIPAL CEMETERIES.
   The city owns or controls two municipal cemeteries (Walnut Hill Cemetery and
Mt. Hope Cemetery) lying within the corporate limits of the city.
(1960 Code, § 14-1-1) (Ord. 9347-2024, passed 11-18-2024)
§ 91.02 BOARD; APPOINTMENT AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Appointment of Board. The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the
City Council, shall appoint a board of three persons who shall be known as the
Cemetery Board of Managers, who shall hold their office for a period of two
years or until their successors are appointed.
(1960 Code, § 14-1-2)
   (B)   Powers of Board. The Cemetery Board of Managers shall have the powers
and authority provided by 60 ILCS 130/1 to 130/3.
(1960 Code, § 14-1-3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-49-1 through 65 ILCS 5/11-52.2-1
§ 91.03 CARE FUND; MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The Cemetery Board of Managers are authorized and empowered to receive
in trust, (in addition to the gifts, devises and bequests authorized to be
received by 60 ILCS 130/1 to 130/3) the U.S. Government bonds, Series G
($21,000) and Series K ($104,000), being a total of $125,000 in bonds in the
Future Care Fund of the city now held by the City Treasurer, and the City
Treasurer is hereby authorized, empowered and directed to pay over and deliver
to the Treasurer of the Cemetery Board of Managers of the city the said bonds
and, upon obtaining a receipt therefor, shall be relieved from all
responsibility with respect thereto.
(1960 Code, § 14-1-4)
   (B)   (1)   The Cemetery Board of Managers is hereby authorized and
empowered to accept any gift, grant, contribution, payment, devise or bequest,
or pursuant to contract, any sum of money, funds, securities or property of any
kind, or the income or avails thereof, and to hold the same in trust in
perpetuity for the care of its cemetery, or for the care of any lot, grave,
crypt or niche in its cemetery; or for the special care of any lot, grave,
crypt or niche or of any family mausoleum of memorial, marker or monument in
its cemetery. No gift, grant, devise, bequest, payment or other contribution
shall be invalid by reason of any indefiniteness of uncertainty as to the
beneficiary designated in the instrument creating the gift, grant, devise,
bequest, payment or other contribution. If any gift, grant, devise, bequest,
payment or other contribution consists of non-income producing property, the
cemetery authority accepting it is authorized and empowered to sell such
property and to invest the funds obtained in accordance with the provisions of
division (B)(2) below.
      (2)   The care funds authorized by this section shall be held intact and,
unless otherwise restricted by the terms of the gift, grant, devise, bequest,
contribution, payment, contract or other authority, in acquiring, investing,
reinvesting, exchanging, retaining, selling and managing property for any such
trust, shall exercise the judgment and care under the circumstances then
prevailing, which persons of prudence, discretion and intelligence exercise in
the management of their own affairs, not in regard to speculation, but in
regard to the permanent disposition of their funds, considering the probable
income as well as the probable safety of their capital. Within the limitations
of the foregoing standard, the cemetery authority or the trustee of the care
funds of the cemetery authority is authorized to acquire and retain every kind
of property, real, personal or mixed, and every kind of investment, including
specifically, but without limiting the generality of the foregoing, bonds,
debentures and other corporate obligations, stocks, preferred or common and
real estate mortgages, which persons of prudence, discretion and intelligence
acquire or retain for their own account. Within the limitation of the foregoing
standard, such authority or trustee is authorized to retain property properly
acquired without limitation as to time and without regard to its suitability
for original purchase. The care funds authorized by this division (B) may be
commingled with other trust funds received by such cemetery authority for the
care of its cemetery or for the care or special care of any lot, grave, crypt,
niche, private mausoleum, memorial, marker, or monument in its cemetery,
whether received by gift, grant, devise, bequest, contribution, payment,
contract or other conveyance heretofore or hereafter made to such cemetery
authority.
      (3)   Such care funds may be invested with common trust funds as provided
in the Common Trust Fund Act, 760 ILCS 45/1 et seq. The net income only from
the investment of such care funds shall be allocated and used for the purposes
specified in the transaction by which the principal was established in the
proportion that each contribution bears to the entire sum invested.
(1960 Code, § 14-1-5)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-49-1 through 65 ILCS 5/11-52.2-1
SUPERINTENDENT OF CEMETERIES
§ 91.15 SUPERINTENDENT OF CEMETERIES.
   The Director of Public Works created in §
32.004 of this Code of Ordinances shall also serve as the Superintendent of
Cemeteries to oversee Walnut Hill Cemetery and Mt. Hope Cemetery.
(Ord. 8187-2018, passed 4-16-2018; Ord. 9347-2024, passed 11-18-2024)
§ 91.16 SUBORDINATES.
   There shall be as many subordinates appointed to the Superintendent of
Cemeteries as shall be determined by the City Council.
(1960 Code, § 14-2-2) (Ord. 5145, passed 11-1-1993)
§ 91.17 APPOINTMENT.
   The Superintendent of Cemeteries and his or her subordinates shall be
appointed by the Mayor by and with the advice and consent of the City Council
at the first regular meeting of the Council in May of each year. They shall
constitute the regular Cemetery Department of the city and shall take the oath
of office described by law.
(1960 Code, § 14-2-3) (Ord. 5145, passed 11-1-1993)
§ 91.18 DUTIES.
   The Superintendent of Cemeteries shall perform the following duties.
   (A)   He or she shall have the general care and custody of Walnut Hill
Cemetery and Mt. Hope Cemetery. In connection with the City Engineer, he or she
shall lay out all lots and walks and roadways in the cemetery and preserve a
record thereof as may be ordered by the City Council.
   (B)   He or she shall afford purchasers all the facilities in his or her
power for the inspection of the grounds and all unsold lots.
   (C)   He or she or his or her assistant shall be at the cemetery or at some
suitable place designated by them, so that any person desiring to have a person
buried may be able to find them.
   (D)   He or she shall have control of all workers employed in the cemetery
and oversee the enforcement of all laws, rules and regulations affecting the
rights of proprietors or the conduct of visitors.
   (E)   He or she shall have charge of and keep an account of all property,
tools and implements belonging to the cemetery and shall keep a record of all
interments made.
   (F)   He or she shall keep such books of records, make such reports and
perform such other duties appropriate to this office as the City Council may
from time to time require.
   (G)   He or she shall pay over or cause to be paid over to the City
Treasurer monthly or oftener, all moneys that may be received as Superintendent
for work done by him or her or his or her subordinates at the cemetery, or that
may be received by him or her from any other source and belonging to the city.
   (H)   He or she shall duly certify all orders and certificates for
expenditures made by him or her, together with monthly payrolls of employees at
the cemetery.
   (I)   He or she shall, on resigning or being removed from office, deliver to
the City Clerk, all books and papers, registers and all property belonging to
the city.
(1960 Code, § 14-2-4) (Ord. 9347-2024, passed 11-18-2024)
§ 91.19 GRAVES.
   (A)   The Superintendent of Cemeteries shall cause all graves in the Walnut
Hill Cemetery and Mt. Hope Cemetary to be dug at least two feet from the top of
the ground on a level at the top of the vault; and graves over five feet long
shall not be less than two feet six inches from the top of the ground to the
top of vault. The graves shall be filled up at least 18 inches above the level
of the ground at the top.
   (B)   Only standard burial boxes or vaults, constructed of reinforced
concrete or other such permanent material, shall be installed in graves in the
Walnut Hill Cemetery and Mt. Hope Cemetery. The burials of deceased premature
babies, stillborn babies and deceased children of less than one year of age are
excluded from the requirements of this division (B).
   (C)   Only one body may be buried in any burial lot unless an extra deep
burial has been purchased.
   (D)   A limit of two cremations per grave. Cremation container may not be
wood (must be concrete, industrial plastic and the like).
   (E)   One full burial with ashes on top is permitted.
   (F)   Infant burial is considered full burial; one ashes permitted on top.
(1960 Code, § 14-2-5) (Ord. 3303, passed 8-18-1975; Ord. 5145, passed 11-1-
1993; Ord. 6434, passed 6-17-2002; Ord. 9347-2024, passed 11-18-2024) Penalty,
see §
10.99
FEES AND CHARGES
§ 91.30 FEES OR GRATUITIES.
   A person in the employ of the Superintendent of Cemeteries shall not retain
any fee or gratuity for any service connected with the cemetery or his or her
duties therein. The salary of such person shall be his or her full compensation
therefor.
(1960 Code, § 14-3-1) (Ord. 7245, passed 4-6-2009)
§ 91.31 CARE OF LOTS.
   (A)   The Superintendent of Cemeteries and his or her assistants shall cut
the grass on all the graves and lots in Walnut Hill Cemetery and Mt. Hope
Cemetery. Upon purchase of a new grave, 15% of the price of the grave is
endowed care. For graves/lots in which endowed care is still owed, 15% of the
current grave cost is due. If owners were enrolled in the seasonal care plan
and still owe endowed care, 15% of the current grave cost, less the seasonal
care paid, would be the amount owed. Care will be given to these lots and
graves so long as there remains a Walnut Hill Cemetery and Mt. Hope Cemetery.
   (B)   The seasonal care plan shall no longer be available for lots.
   (C)   The city shall render bills to all lot owners or other persons
responsible for the care of lots. If no response is made to the sending of
bills, the city will charge all uncollected care charges to these lots. Fees
shall be collected before the opening of any grave or the burial of the
deceased on any lot where such care fees are in arrears.
(1960 Code, § 14-3-2) (Ord. 3226, passed 5-20-1974; Ord. 7245, passed 4-6-2009;
Ord. 7910, passed 11- 16-2015; Ord. 9347-2024, passed 11-18-2024)
§ 91.32 CEMETERY FEES.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The following shall be paid to the City Treasurer for services
performed at Walnut Hill and Mt. Hope Cemetery.
      (2)   The Mayor and/or designee may convey, sell and dispose of a grave
or burial space for $800 for each grave or burial space including endowed care.
         (a)   Opening and closing fees for casket services:
 
Burial Type                       Monday-Friday Saturday Sunday and Holidays
Direct burial (without service)   $1,050        $1,250   $1,450
Chapel service (includes use of
chapel for service, Walnut Hills  $1,100        $1,250   $1,450
only)
Graveside service (includes tent, $1,150        $1,250   $1,450
grave lining and chairs)
 
         (b)   Opening and closing fees for ashes from cremated bodies, still
births, and infants less than six months, and limbs from humans:
 
Burial Type                       Monday-Friday Saturday Sunday and Holidays
Direct burial (without service)   $750          $900     $1,000
Chapel service (includes use of
chapel for service, Walnut Hills  $775          $900     $1,000
only)
Graveside service (includes tent, $800          $900     $1,000
grave lining and chairs)
 
         (c)   For ashes buried at the same time as another burial, including
ashes placed in a casket with a full body, a fee of $200 is charged. This fee
is also charged when two sets of ashes are buried at the same time.
         (d)   Opening and closing fees for niches (Walnut Hill Cemetery only):
            1.   NICHE INTERNMENT. Permanent placement of cremation urn within
a recessed compartment of a structure, maximum of two sets of remains (includes
burial service and engraving).
            2.   Fees.
 
Burial Type         Monday-Friday Saturday Sunday and Holidays
One set of remains  $1,500        $1,600   $1,700
Two sets of remains $2,500        $2,600   $2,700
 
 
Chapel service                            $375
Direct burial (without service)           $350
Graveside - tent, grave lining and chairs $400
 
         (e)   Disinterring fees:
 
Ashes from cremated bodies, still births, infants less than six months, $500
limbs from humans
Any and all bodies of persons over 12 years                             $1,000
Any and all bodies of persons under 12 years                            $500
 
   (B)   Late and other charges.
      (1)   A fee of $200 to dig a deeper grave to allow for an additional
burial. Only for previously arranged burials and if grave has been opened and
burial does not take place, the corresponding direct burial fee is to be
charged for the opening and closing of the grave.
      (2)   A late charge of $200 will be added to the cost of a burial if the
burial arrangements arrive at the cemetery after 3:00 p.m.
      (3)   A late charge of $200 will be added to the cost of a burial for
less than 24 hours notice and notification received after 12:00 p.m. (noon) on
a Friday and/or holiday weekend.
      (4)   Illinois Public Aid burials are accepted. If grave is to be
included, Walnut Hill and Mt. Hope Cemetery will determine the location of the
grave.
(1960 Code, § 14-3-3) (Ord. 7245, passed 4-6-2009; Ord. 7910, passed 11-16-
2015; Ord. 9018-2021, passed 12-20-2021; Ord. 9347-2024, passed 11-18-2024)
§ 91.33 FOUNDATION CHARGES.
   (A)   All sizes are figured at $0.40 per inch.
 
Fee for baby markers a maximum of 16 inches  $55
In-ground vases with concrete base installed $110
Minimum fee for regular markers              $96
 
   (B)   Width for grass borders will be and not exceed 20 inches. Foundations
for grass borders are figured 36 inches deep. Grass borders are required in the
11th Addition, plus all future block additions. Walnut Hill and Mt. Hope
Cemetery will finish all grass borders.
 
                           Standard W/Grassborder
(1) 2 ft. x 10 in. x 3 ft. $96      $256
    2 ft. x 1 ft. x 3 ft.  $115     $256
 
 
                                 Standard W/Grassborder
(2) 2 ft. 6 in. x 10 in. x 3 ft. $120     $304
    2 ft. 6 in. x 1 ft. x 3 ft.  $144     $304
 
 
                           Standard W/Grassborder
(3) 3 ft. x 10 in. x 3 ft. $144     $352
    3 ft. x 1 ft. x 3 ft.  $173     $352
 
 
                                 Standard W/Grassborder
(4) 3 ft. 6 in. x 10 in. x 3 ft. $168     $400
    3 ft. 6 in. x 1 ft. x 3 ft.  $202     $400
 
 
                           Standard W/Grassborder
(5) 4 ft. x 10 in. x 3 ft. $192     $448
    4 ft. x 1 ft. x 3 ft.  $230     $448
 
 
                                 Standard W/Grassborder
(6) 4 ft. 6 in. x 10 in. x 3 ft. $216     $496
    4 ft. 6 in. x 1 ft. x 3 ft.  $259     $496
 
 
                           Standard W/Grassborder
(7) 5 ft. x 10 in. x 3 ft. $240     $544
    5 ft. x 1 ft. x 3 ft.  $288     $544
 
 
                                 Standard W/Grassborder
(8) 5 ft. 6 in. x 10 in. x 3 ft. $264     $592
    5 ft. 6 in. x 1 ft. x 3 ft.  $317     $592
 
 
                           Standard W/Grassborder
(9) 6 ft. x 10 in. x 3 ft. $288     $640
    6 ft. x 1 ft. x 3 ft.  $346     $640
 
(1960 Code, § 14-3-4) (Ord. 7245, passed 4-6-2009; Ord. 7910, passed 11-16-
2015; Ord. 9347-2024, passed 11-18-2024)
REGULATIONS
§ 91.45 IMPROVEMENTS IN WALNUT HILL AND MT. HOPE CEMETERY.
   (A)   All graves in Walnut Hill and Mt. Hope Cemetery shall be made level.
Lot owners shall not plant any growing flowers, such as peonies, rose bushes,
sweetpeas and the like and all growing plants, bushes or offensive objects on
graves and lots shall be removed by the Superintendent of Cemeteries or his or
her assistants.
   (B)   All bushes, trees, shrubs, evergreens, plants and the like shall be
removed from that part of each lot in the cemetery facing an areaway, street or
alley, commonly known as the front part of a cemetery lot.
   (C)   The Superintendent of Cemeteries may remove from graves and all
bouquets and bouquet holders in excess of one, except on Memorial Day,
Christmas Day, Mother’s Day and Father’s Day.
   (D)   All persons shall be requested to refrain from using glass jars, tin
cans, boxes, baskets or buckets as bouquet holders on graves.
   (E)   All cornerstones shall be placed at ground level or not more than two
inches below ground level.
   (F)   All copings, fences, concrete curbing, hedges and the like on or
around any grave or cemetery lot in the cemetery are declared a nuisance and
such copings, fences, concrete curbing, hedges and the like shall be removed by
the Superintendent of Cemeteries and his or her assistants.
   (G)   No person shall construct, aid in constructing or cause to be
constructed any curb, coping, rail, fence, trellis or anything similar thereto
in the cemetery, and no person shall plant, aid in planting or cause to be
planted any bush, shrub or tree in the cemetery, except with the consent and
under the supervision of the Superintendent of Cemeteries.
   (H)   All tombstones in the cemetery shall be placed in a line to be known
as the tombstone line.
(1960 Code, § 14-4-1) (Ord. 6535, passed 4-22-2003; Ord. 9347-2024, passed 11-
18-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.46 SHOOTING AND TRESPASSING.
   No person shall hunt, discharge a firearm or otherwise trespass upon Walnut
Hill Cemetery, Mt. Hope Cemetery or any cemetery in the city.
(1960 Code, § 14-4-2) (Ord. 6535, passed 4-22-2003; Ord. 9347-2024, passed 11-
18-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.47 MALICIOUS MISCHIEF.
   No person shall carry away or remove, or break, deface, destroy or otherwise
injure any monument, tombstone, tree, shrub or flower, railing, fence or any
other property, article or thing belonging to Walnut Hill Cemetery, Mt. Hope
Cemetery or any cemetery within the city or placed or erected therein for
ornament or otherwise; or trespass upon or maltreat any grave or lot.
(1960 Code, § 14-4-3) (Ord. 6535, passed 4-22-2003; Ord. 9347-2024, passed 11-
18-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.48 OBSTRUCTING STREETS.
   No person shall obstruct any street in Walnut Hill Cemetery, Mt. Hope
Cemetery or any cemetery within the city of excavation, digging graves or
erecting fences or monuments.
(1960 Code, § 14-4-4) (Ord. 6535, passed 4-22-2003; Ord. 9347-2024, passed 11-
18-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.49 WORK FOR HIRE PROHIBITED.
   No person other than the Superintendent of Cemeteries or other agent or
employee of the Superintendent or of the city shall engage in, do or perform
any of the work, services or labor about or upon any grave, lot or cemetery
ground in Walnut Hill or Mt. Hope Cemetery which work constitutes the work,
services, labor or duties usually performed by or under the Superintendent.
(1960 Code, § 14-4-5) (Ord. 6535, passed 4-22-2003; Ord. 9347-2024, passed 11-
18-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.50 CLOSING OF CEMETERY.
   (A)   Walnut Hill and Mt. Hope Cemetery will be open from dawn to dusk.
   (B)   No person shall be on the cemetery grounds or enclosure after these
hours without special permit from the Mayor in writing.
(1960 Code, § 14-4-6) (Ord. 6535, passed 4-22-2003; Ord. 7910, passed 11-16-
2015; Ord. 9347-2024, passed 11-18-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.51 LOCATION OF CEMETERIES.
   No person shall establish or maintain any cemetery or place for burial
purposes within one mile of the city limits. Walnut Hill Cemetery, with
additions, Mount Hope, Mount Carmel, Valhalla Burial Park, Gethsemane of the
Oblate Fathers, and the County Farm Cemetery are exempt from the provisions of
this section; but, no person shall lay out any addition to any of these
cemeteries without first submitting a plat thereof to the City Council for
approval.
(1960 Code, § 14-4-7) (Ord. 6535, passed 4-22-2003) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.52 ONE BODY PER GRAVE.
   (A)   There shall only be one body buried in any grave in Walnut Hill and
Mt. Hope Cemetery unless the grave has been purchased for a double deep burial.
No graves shall be sold for a double deep burial from the date of this section.
If a grave deed authorized two bodies to be buried in the same grave, a burial
vault must be used for the burial of the first body in the grave. The extra
cost for safety for digging a double deep grave shall be paid by the lot owner
or person making arrangements for the burial.
   (B)   This shall not apply to the burial of an urn of ashes in a grave site.
(1960 Code, § 14-4-8) (Ord. 6535, passed 4-22-2003; Ord. 7503, passed 7-5-2011;
Ord. 9347-2024, passed 11-18-2024) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Department of Health, Housing and Building; responsibilities, powers
   
92.02   Dangerous buildings
   
92.03   Sale of poison
   
92.04   Report of diseases
   
92.05   Interference with Director
   
92.06   Construction and interpretation
   
92.07   Dumps
   
92.08   Trash in vehicles
   
92.09   Dumpsters
Garbage and Refuse
   
92.20   Definitions
   
92.21   Collection
   
92.22   Refuse collection fees
   
92.23   Fee collection, lien rights, collection and occupancy
   
92.24   Private haulers; hours
   
92.25   Placing of containers
   
92.26   Containers
   
92.27   Enforcement
   
92.28   Interference with cans
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH, HOUSING AND BUILDING; RESPONSIBILITIES, POWERS.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Department of Health, Housing and Building,
which shall be headed by a Director. The Director shall be appointed by the
Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council at the first regular
meeting of the Council in May of each year. It is the intent of the City
Council that the position of Director be on the policy making level in the city
government and that it be a position described in 42 U.S.C. § 2000e(f) as being
exempt from coverage under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C.
§§ 2000 et seq.
(1960 Code, § 18-1-1)
   (B)   (1)   Policy making. The Director and his or her staff shall
formulate, develop and recommend to the Mayor and the Council all policies and
procedures for the public health and sanitation of the city and for enforcement
of the Housing Occupancy and Maintenance Codes of the city and to formulate,
develop and recommend to the Council legislation relating to the sanitation,
housing and health of the city and its residents.
      (2)   Enforcement. The Director shall investigate all matters of
Sanitation, Health and Housing Code enforcement, determine who shall be
prosecuted in connection therewith, and assemble the evidence in connection
therewith and present it to the City Attorney for prosecution. The Director
shall have such powers and authority as are necessary and reasonable for him or
her to carry out his or her responsibilities and powers hereunder to enforce
the ordinances and regulations of the city relating to sanitation, housing and
health.
      (3)   Power to inspect.
         (a)   With reference to any health nuisance or any Housing or
Maintenance Code violation, the Director shall have the power to enter and
examine any property for the purpose of enforcement of the Health Code and the
Housing and Maintenance Codes of the city. The Director shall cause to be made
a thorough sanitary inspection of the entire area within the city’s
jurisdiction with such frequency as he or she, in the exercise of his or her
judgment and authority, shall determine appropriate, but not less frequently
than once each year. Such inspections shall include all matters affecting the
public health, as the Director shall determine.
         (b)   The Director shall have authority to enter and examine, with
reference to any nuisance, all premises and parts thereof within the city
limits or within one-half mile outside the city limits, and to direct the
abatement of the nuisance.
      (4)   Reporting. The Director shall report to the City Council each month
at the first regular meeting of the Council on the sanitation, housing and
health conditions of the city.
      (5)   Orders. The Director shall be authorized to issue orders pursuant
to the exercise of his or her responsibilities and powers, which shall be
enforced by the Police Department. The Director shall also have authority to
execute orders of the Housing Court through the Police Department.
      (6)   Jurisdiction. All orders and regulations of the Director made in
accordance with his or her authority hereunder shall be obeyed by all persons
in the city subject to the jurisdiction of the city in matters relating to
sanitation, housing and health.
(1960 Code, § 18-1-2)
(Ord. 5602, passed 7-1-1996)
§ 92.02 DANGEROUS BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No person shall willfully allow any building or premises to become
injurious to the health or dangerous to the lives of the occupants thereof or
of the public. Whenever it shall come to the knowledge of the Director that the
condition of any building or premises is injurious to the health or dangerous
to the lives of the occupants thereof or of the public, it shall be the duty of
the Director to make a thorough examination of the building or premises and to
direct and instruct as to the remedy of such condition and, in his or her
discretion, to initiate prosecution under the codes of the city.
   (B)   If the person responsible for the condition fails or refuses to remedy
such condition within three days after he or she is notified of the condition
by the Director, the Director shall prosecute such person before the Housing
Court and, upon conviction, such person shall be fined as provided in the code.
The Court shall order, as part of the judgment in such case, that such building
or premises shall be immediately be put in good safe and sanitary condition in
compliance with the applicable codes and ordinances relating to sanitation,
health and housing at the cost of the person responsible for the condition.
Where the Director determines, in his or her discretion, that it is necessary
to fumigate such building or premises to render the same in compliance with the
applicable codes and ordinances, the same shall be done by the Director at the
cost of the person responsible for the condition.
(1960 Code, § 18-1-3) (Ord. 5602, passed 7-1-1996) Penalty, see §
92.99
Cross-reference:
   Property Maintenance Code, see
Ch. 154
§ 92.03 SALE OF POISON.
   No personal shall sell or give away to any person any deadly poison, knowing
it to be such, without marking or labeling the same in legible characters, with
the word “Poison”, or sell or give away any deadly poison to any person to him
or her unknown.
(1960 Code, § 18-1-4) (Ord. 5602, passed 7-1-1996) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 REPORT OF DISEASES.
   (A)   A physician or other person with knowledge of any person sick with any
disease posing an immediate danger to the public health shall forthwith report
the same to the Director. The Director shall at once notify the State
Department of Health of the existence of such disease, and shall subsequently
cause a full report to be made to the Secretary of the State Department of
Health upon the blank forms furnished for that purpose.
   (B)   Every practicing physician in the city who shall have a patient
therein or within three miles thereof affected with any disease posing an
immediate danger to the public health shall forthwith make report thereof in
writing to the Director, giving the name and address of such patient.
(1960 Code, § 18-1-5) (Ord. 5602, passed 7-1-1996) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 INTERFERENCE WITH DIRECTOR.
   No person shall interfere with the Director in the execution and enforcement
of the codes and ordinances of the state or the city relating to sanitation,
housing and health and anyone doing so shall, upon conviction, be subject to
such penalties as are permitted by the laws of the state and the city.
(1960 Code, § 18-1-6) (Ord. 5602, passed 7-1-1996) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 CONSTRUCTION AND INTERPRETATION.
   As used herein, DIRECTOR means the person appointed and serving in the
position and to the extent that the Director, in his or her discretion,
delegates his or her responsibilities and power hereunder to them, his or her
officers, agents, employees and other staff. It is the intent of the City
Council to vest the Director with all of the responsibilities and powers
previously held by the Board of Health, the Health Officer and the Housing/
Health Inspector and, in addition, to grant to him or her substantial authority
to exercise his or her discretion and judgment in the formulation of policy
relating to sanitation, housing and health, including the prosecution of
violations thereof, and to recommend legislation to the Council for action in
connection with the city’s sanitation, housing and health. As used herein,
reference to the male gender shall also include and mean the female gender.
(1960 Code, § 18-1-7) (Ord. 5602, passed 7-1-1996; Ord. 5743, passed 5-20-1997)
§ 92.07 DUMPS.
   (A)   No person shall dump or deposit any mine slag or like matter on any
premises within the city.
   (B)   No owner or person in possession of any premises in the city shall
suffer or permit the dumping or depositing of any mine slag or like matter on
such premises.
(1960 Code, § 18-3-1) (Ord. 2302, passed - -; Ord. 5602, passed 7-1-1996)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 TRASH IN VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle for hire loaded with trash or refuse
from being parked overnight in any residential neighborhood within the city.
(1960 Code, § 18-3-2) (Ord. 5602, passed 7-1-1996) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09 DUMPSTERS.
   (A)   Owners of commercial businesses and apartment buildings where
dumpsters are used must provide adequate containers to hold refuse, rubbish and
garbage. When not being filled, emptied or cleaned, dumpster lids must be kept
tightly closed to prevent blowing trash and public health concerns such as rats
and other vermin.
   (B)   Dumpsters are not to be placed on residential or commercial property
for the purpose of unloading vehicles that are being used to haul trash and
junk for a fee.
(1960 Code, § 18-3-3) (Ord. 5836, passed 1-20-1998; Ord. 6506, passed 2-3-2003)
Penalty, see §
92.99
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
§ 92.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. The residue of combustion of such fuels as wood, coal, charcoal and
the like.
   COMMERCIAL REFUSE. All ashes and rubbish arising out of the operation of
business and industry, excluding highly combustibles and all other refuse
resulting from the ordinary operation of private residences or households.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible animal and vegetable matter.
   HIGHLY COMBUSTIBLE RUBBISH. All waste substances capable of exploding or
highly inflammable material such as gunpowder, photographic plates or
negatives, substances saturate with inflammable petroleum products or the like.
   RESIDENTIAL REFUSE. All ashes and rubbish resulting from the ordinary
operation of residential properties. “Residential properties” shall be defined
as property up to and including four-unit apartment facilities, with the
exception of private developments which contract for pickup of an entire
development on a weekly schedule and four-unit apartment facilities where
dumpsters are provided.
   RUBBISH. All waste substances incapable of explosion such as tin cans,
tinware and other metallic substances, bottles, glassware, earthenware, ashes,
paper and the like, excluding furniture, appliances, yard waste and tires.
   WATER-PROOF BAGS. Water-proof bags are to be used only for the depositing of
paper. No garbage or rubbish is to be placed in them unless they are used as a
liner within a regulation container. Bags are to be made of a water-proof
material and are to be sealed.
   YARD WASTE. Organic material produced in a residential yard not measuring
more than two inches round.
(1960 Code, § 18-2-1) (Ord. 5602, passed 7-1-1996)
§ 92.21 COLLECTION.
   (A)   Residential refuse and garbage shall be collected and disposed of by
the Department of Sanitation for which a charge may be made by the city. The
Department is not required to collect and dispose of any commercial refuse or
garbage. Commercial refuse and garbage may be collected and disposed of by the
Department if a charge covering the cost of collection and disposal thereof is
established and collected by the Department. Highly combustible rubbish shall
not be collected by the Department and none shall be placed or deposited in any
container for collection. Residential refuse and garbage shall be collected at
regular intervals on collection days to be determined by the Department of
Sanitation for the various sections of the city. The Department shall determine
the points of collection when not otherwise designated in this subchapter and
shall distribute to all households notices or memoranda outlining the
provisions of this subchapter and stating the collection days and points of
collection.
   (B)   Brush clippings are not to be any larger than two inches round and no
longer than four feet. They are to be tied in bundles no larger than 18 inches
round.
   (C)   All hypodermic needles, tubing with needles attached, syringes (with
or without attached needles), or any sharp object that has been contaminated
with blood and/or bodily fluids, must be contained in a puncture resistant
container before disposal in containers to be collected by the city.
   (D)   To preserve the public health and to protect the public interests,
mandatory municipal trash pickup for all residential refuse shall be enforced.
Those wishing a waiver or believe they do not qualify, may appeal to the Public
Health and Housing Committee.
(1960 Code, § 18-2-2) (Ord. 5602, passed 7-1-1996; Ord. 7898, passed 10-19-
2015) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.22 REFUSE COLLECTION FEES.
   (A)   (1)   The monthly fee for municipal collection of residential refuse
per residence or apartment, except for when there is a senior citizen’s
discount, shall be as follows:
         (a)   Effective May 1, 2024 - $22;
         (b)   Effective May 1, 2025 - $22.25;
         (c)   Effective May 1, 2026 - $22.50;
         (d)   Effective May 1, 2027 - $22.75.
      (2)   The foregoing rates shall be discounted by $5 per month for senior
citizens. Seniors qualify for the discount by providing proof of being 65 years
of age or older, and evidence that the subject property is occupied as the
owner’s principal place of residence.
   (B)   Effective February 1, 2022, the fee for municipal collection of
commercial refuse shall be $40 a month per commercial address. Maximum number
of four trash toters allowed for collection per commercial address. Collection
requiring more than maximum number of toters must use a private hauler for
disposal.
(1960 Code, § 18-2-3) (Ord. 5602, passed 7-1-1996; Ord. 7376, passed 4-5-2010;
Ord. 8060-2017, passed 6-19-2017; Ord. 8103-2017, passed 9-18-2017; Ord. 9019-
2021, passed 12-20-2021: Ord. 9253-2024, passed 3-3-2024)
§ 92.23 FEE COLLECTION, LIEN RIGHTS, COLLECTION AND OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Billing. Bills for health and sanitation services, including but not
limited to use and services of the sewage system and refuse collection charges,
determined by the established rates shall be prepared by the office of the City
Treasurer and shall be due and payable on or before the twentieth day following
the date of the bill. Unless the City Treasurer or a designee determines that
the city’s interest is best served by sending the bill to a renter, the bill
shall be sent to the owner or the management company of the lot, parcel of land
or premises. If charges are not paid within 20 days of the date of any bill
rendered, a delayed payment charge in the amount of 10% of the bill shall be
imposed, billed, and collected. When a bill is not paid by a tenant within 30
days after the date of the bill, the property owner shall be responsible for
paying said bill including delayed payment and interest charges.
   (B)   Occupancy permits. When there is any indebtedness to the city,
including any unpaid bills for sewer and/or refuse services to “closed or
inactive accounts”, the city may in its sole discretion deny occupancy permits
for addresses until all outstanding charges have been paid. Further, the city
may revoke occupancy permits for addresses when sewer/trash bills have gone
unpaid for 60 or more days, and where occupancy permits inadvertently have been
issued.
   (C)   Lien rights. Whenever a bill for sewer service/refuse collection
remains unpaid for 60 days after it has been rendered, the Treasurer or the
Treasurer’s designee(s) may file with the Recorder of Deed, St. Clair County, a
statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain a legal description of
the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill and the notice that the city
claims a lien for this amount as well as for all charges for sewer service/
refuse collection subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
   (D)   Attorney’s fees. In the event that rates and charges for trash
collection services provided by the city are not paid by the owner, occupant or
user of said lot, parcel of land or premises then the city shall be entitled to
collect, in addition to the basic charges enumerated in this section,
reasonable attorney’s fees and costs of collection.
(1960 Code, § 18-2-4) (Ord. 5602, passed 7-1-1996; Ord. 7123, passed 4-22-2008;
Ord. 7898, passed 10-19-2015; Ord. 9264-2024, passed 4-1-2024)
§ 92.24 PRIVATE HAULERS; HOURS.
   (A)   All persons hauling trash for hire in the city and placing containers
shall have their name and phone number visibly displayed on the containers.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any private trash hauler to collect trash
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(1960 Code, § 18-2-5) (Ord. 5602, passed 7-1-1996) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.25 PLACING OF CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Each occupant of any building in which less than five families, living
separately, reside, shall provide and at all times maintain on the lot on which
such building is erected separate containers for receiving and holding garbage
and residential non-combustible rubbish accumulated during the period between
designated days of collection. When five or more families, living separately
reside in a building, or on any premises, the owner of said premises shall
provide a dumpster for tenants to place their garbage and non-combustible
rubbish in and shall have said dumpster emptied at least once a week. The owner
of such premises shall provide the following minimum container sizes:
 
Number of Units Size
1-4             1 toter per unit or 1 cubic-yard dumpster
5-6             2 cubic-yard dumpster
7-12            4 cubic-yard dumpster
13-18           6 cubic-yard dumpster
19-24           8 cubic-yard dumpster
25 or more      dumpster based on 0.33 cubic-yards per unit
 
   (B)   The owners, lessee, tenant or occupant of any premises having an alley
entrance shall place conspicuously at the alley entrance to such premises the
house number thereof in figures not less than two inches high and shall place
the containers for the premises within five feet of the alley line. If there is
no alley, or if the same is impassable for vehicles, the containers for such
premises shall be placed on collection days in the front of the premises not
more than five feet from the street property line. The containers shall be
removed from the front of the premises within 24 hours from the time of
collection. Employees of the Department of Sanitation may leave written or
printed notices at the home of any person charged with the duty of maintaining
the containers if such containers are not maintained, handled or placed in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. If the condition specified
in the notice is not rectified by the next collection, the Department shall
notify the Police Department of the violation.
(1960 Code, § 18-2-6) (Ord. 5602, passed 7-1-1996; Ord. 7346, passed 1-4-2010;
Ord. 7898, passed 10-19-2015; Ord. 8434-2020, passed 3-16-2020) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.26 CONTAINERS.
   (A)   The capacity and number of containers for garbage and refuse which
shall be provided shall be sufficient to hold all accumulations of refuse
between collection days. For collection purposes, all garbage and refuse shall
be bagged and placed in water-tight containers of not more than 32 gallons'
capacity each. All garbage and refuse containers shall have tight-fitting
covers which shall be in place at all times, except when filling, emptying or
cleaning the container. All containers must have handles in good repair, no
wheels and a detachable lid. The Department of Sanitation is not required to
collect garbage or refuse deposited in ashpits or in any other manner than that
prescribed in this section. All refuse collected by the city shall become the
property of the city upon collection. Containers may not be filled so as to
weigh more than 60 pounds.
   (B)   For collection purposes, yard waste may be placed in two-ply yard
waste bags or in refuse containers. Refuse containers must clearly be marked
"Yard Waste" in letters not less than four inches high. Containers must not be
more than 32-gallon capacity with tight-fitting lids and a maximum weight of 60
pounds.
   (C)   For collection purposes, recycling may be placed in containers not
more than 32-gallon capacity with tight-fitting lids and a maximum weight of 60
pounds. Containers must be properly marked "Recycle" in letters not less than
four inches high. Items accepted for recycling include plastics, glass, paper,
cardboard, paperboard, aluminum and tin.
(Ord. 9092-2022, passed 10-17-2022) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.27 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Department of Sanitation shall enforce the provisions of this subchapter
and may prepare and publish rules and regulations for the effective
administration and enforcement of this subchapter.
(1960 Code, § 18-2-8) (Ord. 5602, passed 7-1-1996)
§ 92.28 INTERFERENCE WITH CANS.
   No person shall willfully damage, deface, mutilate or in any way disfigure
waste paper or refuse cans installed upon the sidewalks and public places of
the city by permission of the City Council.
(1960 Code, § 18-2-9) (Ord. 5602, passed 7-1-1996) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §
92.08 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined an amount not exceeding $500. Each day such
violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute separate
offense and shall be punishable hereunder as such. For the purposes of §
92.08 of this chapter, any penalty imposed hereunder shall be assessed against
the owner of such vehicle for hire.
(1960 Code, § 18-3-2)
   (C)   Any person violating §
92.09 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined an amount not exceeding $500. Each day such
violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute separate
offense and shall be punishable hereunder as such. For the purposes of §
92.09 of this chapter, any penalty imposed hereunder shall be assessed against
the property owner where the dumpster is located and/or owner of vehicle
hauling trash and junk.
(1960 Code, § 18-3-3)
(Ord. 5602, passed 7-1-1996; Ord. 5836, passed 1-20-1998; Ord. 6506, passed 2-
3-2003)
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
93.001   Nuisances prohibited
   
93.002   Nuisances defined
   
93.003   Notice to abate
   
93.004   Summary abatement by Board of Health
   
93.005   Order of court
   
93.006   Abatement by police
Weeds
   
93.020   Definition
   
93.021   Height limit
   
93.022   Lien expenses
   
93.023   Payment by owner
   
93.024   Rank growth of grain
   
93.025   Damage to city equipment
Dangerous Buildings
   
93.040   Definition
   
93.041   Prohibition
   
93.042   Lien
   
93.043   Abatement
Inoperable Motor Vehicles
   
93.055   Definitions
   
93.056   Declaration of nuisance
   
93.057   Notice to owner
   
93.058   Removal
   
93.059   Records of tow aways
   
93.060   Search for owner
   
93.061   Notice to state police
   
93.062   Reclaiming by owner
   
93.063   Sale of unclaimed new vehicle
   
93.064   Disposition of unidentified vehicle or old vehicle
   
93.065   Reports
   
93.066   Disposition of funds
   
93.067   Liability
Lighting Regulations
   
93.080   Definitions
   
93.081   Regulations
   
93.082   Control of glare; luminaire design factors
   
93.083   Exceptions to control of glare
   
93.084   Outdoor advertising signs
   
93.085   Recreational facilities
   
93.086   Prohibitions
   
93.087   Temporary outdoor lighting
   
93.088   Notification requirements
   
93.089   Notice to electricians
Furniture and Appliances Left Outdoors
   
93.100   Definitions
   
93.101   Regulations
   
93.102   Exceptions
 
   
93.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.001 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall permit, cause, keep, maintain or create a nuisance, as
defined by the laws of the state or by this code, within the city or within
one-half mile of the corporate limits of the city.
(1960 Code, § 26-1-1) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.002 NUISANCES DEFINED.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances:
   (A)   Nuisances on premises. Keeping on any premises any carrion, pigsty,
decaying animal or vegetable matter, stagnant water or any other thing which
may be injurious to the health or offensive to the neighborhood, or by which
any noxious or offensive smell may be created;
   (B)   Offensive trade. Any building or other place for the exercise of any
trade, employment or manufacture, which, by occasioning noxious exhalations,
offensive smells or otherwise, is offensive or dangerous to the health of
individuals or of the public;
   (C)   Deposits. Dumping or depositing on any premises, public or private,
any decaying animal or vegetable matter, or any waste paper, boxes, filth or
refuse of any kind from any store or other place, or any waste liable to create
any offensive smell or stench, or liable to become ignited by combustion or
otherwise;
   (D)   Obstructing watercourse. Throwing or depositing in or upon the banks
or sides of any stream, pond, lake, spring or any other flowing watercourse of
any carrion, decaying animal, vegetable, water, straw, hay, brush, ashes, cans,
buckets, kegs, rocks or any other substance, material or article which might
clog, impede or obstruct the free flow of water in the watercourse;
   (E)   Privies. Any privy within the city limits, or any premises discharging
liquid wastes or human excreta which is not connected to a sanitary sewer,
where there is a sanitary sewer of not less than 12 inches in diameter in the
abutting street;
   (F)   Pigs. Any pig, hog or swine in any pigsty, hog pen or lot, or any
barn, stable or shed, situated in the city;
   (G)   Filth, trash or refuse in the street. Throwing or permitting the scape
into any street, sidewalk, or other public place, or into or upon any adjacent
ground, any filth, trash, refuse or unclean water, or any foul or noxious
liquid from any premises or causing rain water to be conducted in any manner so
as to throw the same into any street, sidewalk or other public place from a
greater height than three feet;
   (H)   Standing water in cellars. Any cellar containing any standing or
stagnant or filthy water;
   (I)   Pits or excavations. Any pit, hole or excavation dangerous to the
public;
   (J)   Ponds. Any pond, lake or body of water in a stagnant condition or in a
condition that is detrimental or injurious or dangerous to the public;
   (K)   Water on streets. Dumping, depositing or permitting any water to run
across any sidewalk, street or alley within the city in such a manner as to
create a hazardous condition thereon;
   (L)   Health and safety hazards. Maintaining or permitting any condition
upon any premises, street, alley or sidewalk within the city which creates a
hazard to the health or safety of the public;
   (M)   Polluting watercourses. Dumping, depositing or permitting to remain
any dirt, rock, wood or any other material along or upon the banks of any
watercourse or creek, or in such close proximity thereto as is likely to fall
into or be carried by flood waters into the channel of any such watercourse or
creek;
   (N)   Obstructing drains. Interfering with any ditches, drainage easements
or natural drains, so as to in any way obstruct, impede or interfere with the
flow of water through such ditches, drainage easements or natural drains; and
   (O)   Public right-of-way. To allow any weeds or turf grass to grow to a
height greater than eight inches in height on any public right-of-way
immediately adjacent to property owned by any party or within five feet of any
public right-of-way.
(1960 Code, § 26-1-2) (Ord. 2723, passed - -; Ord. 2886, passed - -; Ord. 2944,
passed - -; Ord. 4947, passed 5-4-1992; Ord. 7125, passed 4-21-2008; Ord. 7213,
passed 1-5-2009) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.003 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   (A)   When it shall come to the attention of the city that any condition
exists defined by §
93.002 of this chapter, it shall be the duty of the city to give written notice
to the owner, occupant of the premises or the person responsible for such
condition, directing such owner, occupant or person responsible to correct such
condition within five days. If the person directed to do so fails or refuses to
remedy such condition within five days after such written notice, the nuisance
shall be abated by the city and bill sent to the owner, occupant or person
responsible for such condition. If payment is not received for services
rendered, the city will file a lien at the Recorder of Deeds of the county.
   (B)   Charges shall be filed against such owner, occupant or the premises or
person responsible and such person, so failing, shall, upon conviction, be
fined as provided in this code. Only one notice will be sent to the owner,
occupant of the premises or the person responsible for such condition per each
property per year.
   (C)   Failure of the owner, occupant of the premises or person responsible
for such condition to abate the nuisance on the property and in the right-of-
way after the first notification will be cause for immediate abatement by the
city without further written notification.
(1960 Code, § 26-1-3) (Ord. 7125, passed 4-21-2008; Ord. 8923-2021, passed 3-
15-2021)
§ 93.004 SUMMARY ABATEMENT BY BOARD OF HEALTH.
   It is the duty of the Board of Health to cause summary abatement of any
nuisance at the proper expense and cost of the person or persons responsible
for, or permitting, such nuisance.
(1960 Code, § 26-1-4)
§ 93.005 ORDER OF COURT.
   It shall be the duty of the court or magistrate before whom the cause may be
tried to order as part of the judgment in such cause, that such nuisance be
immediately abated and removed, and that the Chief of Police proceed to abate
and remove the same.
(1960 Code, § 26-1-5)
§ 93.006 ABATEMENT BY POLICE.
   (A)   (1)   If the owner of any real estate upon which there is a nuisance
resides out of or is out of the state, or on due inquiry cannot be found, the
Chief of Police shall cause publication to be made in some newspaper printed in
the city, at least once in each week for four weeks successively, or a notice
to the owner of such real estate, giving his or her name, if the same can be
ascertained, or designating him or her as unknown owner, if the owner’s name
cannot be ascertained and giving the description of such real estate, the
nature of the nuisance thereon and time within which such nuisance shall be
abated. The Chief of Police shall, within ten days after the first publication
of such notice, send a copy thereof by mail, addressed to the owner of such
real estate, if the name and address of such owner is known to the Chief of
Police or can be ascertained by him or her.
      (2)   If, at the expiration of the time specified in the notice for
abating the nuisance, the nuisance still remains the Chief of Police may enter
upon such real estate and do all work that may be necessary to abate such
nuisance.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall keep strict account of the cost and expense
of such work and necessary material; for the collection of which, proceedings
may be commenced against the property by attachment, as in other cases of
attachment under the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
(1960 Code, § 26-1-6)
WEEDS
§ 93.020 DEFINITION.
   WEEDS, as used in this subchapter, include the following and are designated
exotic weeds under the Illinois Exotic Weeds Act (525 ILCS 10/1 et seq.).
Lonicera japonica                       Japanese honeysuckle
Rosa multiflora                         multiflora rose
Lythrum salicaria                       purple loosestrife
Rhamnus cathartica                      common buckthorn
Rhamnus frangula                        glossy buckthorn
Rhamnus davurica                        dahurian buckthorn
Rhamnus japonica                        Japanese buckthorn
Rhamnus utilis                          Chinese buckthorn
Pueraria lobata                         kudzu-vine
Lonicera maackil, Lonicera tatarica,
Lonicera morrowil, and Lonicera         exotic bush honeysuckles
fragrantissima
Elaeagnus umbellata, Elaeagnus pungens, exotic olives
Elaeagnus angustifolia
all members of the Tamarix genus        salt cedar
Conium maculatum                        poison hemlock
Heracleum mantegazzianum                giant hogweed
Celastrus orbiculatus                   Oriental bittersweet
Ficaria verna                           lesser celandine
all members of the Dipsacus genus       teasel
Fallopia japonica, syn. Polygonum
cuspidatum; Fallopia sachalinensis; and Japanese, giant and Bohemian knotweed
Fallopia x bohemica, resp.
 
(1960 Code, § 26-2-1) (Ord. 8994-2021, passed 10-19-2021)
§ 93.021 HEIGHT LIMIT.
   Every owner, lessee, occupant or any agent, servant, representative or
employee of an owner, lessee or occupant of any real estate within the city
shall cut weeds and grass on his or her property at all such times as may be
necessary so that such weeds and grass do not exceed eight inches in height. If
said owner, lessee or occupant fails to do so, the city may cut the weeds and
grass.
(1960 Code, § 26-2-2) (Ord. 5963, passed 3-1-1999) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.022 LIEN EXPENSES.
   (A)   If weeds or grass are cut by the city, a notice of lien on the cost
and expense thereof incurred by the city shall be recorded in the following
manner: the city or the person performing the service by authority of the city,
in its or his or her own name, may file notice of lien in the office of the
Recorder of Deeds of the county.
   (B)   The notice of lien shall consist of a sworn statement setting out the
following and shall be filed within 60 days after the cost and expense is
incurred:
      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
      (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and
      (3)   The date or dates when said cost and expense was incurred by the
city.
(1960 Code, § 26-2-3) (Ord. 5963, passed 3-1-1999)
§ 93.023 PAYMENT BY OWNER.
   Upon payment of the cost and expense after notice of lien has been filed,
the lien shall be released by the city or person in whose name the lien has
been filed and the release shall be filed of record in the same manner as
filing notice of the lien.
(1960 Code, § 26-2-4)
§ 93.024 RANK GROWTH OF GRAIN.
   Any rank vegetable growth, including any growing grain, more than two feet
in height shall similarly be cut by the owner of the real estate. If the owner
fails to do so, the city may cut the growth and file lien therefor as provided
in this subchapter.
(1960 Code, § 26-2-5) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.025 DAMAGE TO CITY EQUIPMENT.
   If weeds or grass are cut by the city as provided in §
93.021 of this chapter, any damage sustained by any equipment used by the city
while cutting the weeds or grass shall be assessable on the owner of the real
estate. Such damage shall become a lien on the real estate, which lien shall be
perfected by the city in the same manner as provided in §
93.022 of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 26-2-6) (Ord. 5963, passed 3-1-1999)
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 93.040 DEFINITION.
   (A)   The term DANGEROUS BUILDINGS, as used in this subchapter, is hereby
defined to mean and include:
      (1)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which is
dangerous to the public health because of its condition and which may cause or
aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of the occupants of it or
neighboring structures;
      (2)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which
because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or any other cause
is expressly liable to fire and constitutes or creates a fire hazard;
      (3)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which by
reason of faulty construction, or any other cause, is liable to cause injury or
damage by collapsing or by a collapse or fall of any part of such structure;
and
      (4)   Any building, shed, fence or other human-made structure which
because of its condition or because of lack of doors or windows is available to
and frequented by malefactors or disorderly persons who are not lawful
occupants of such structure.
   (B)   Any such dangerous building in the city is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
(1960 Code, § 26-3-1) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.041 PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any dangerous
building in the city; and, it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or
person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in a
dangerous condition or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied
while it is or remains in a dangerous condition.
(1960 Code, § 26-3-2) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.042 LIEN.
   Whenever the Building Inspector, the Fire Chief or the Health Officer shall
be of the opinion that any building or structure in the city is a dangerous
building, he or she shall file a written statement to this effect with the City
Clerk. The City Clerk shall thereupon cause written notice to be served upon
the owner thereof and upon the occupant thereof, if any, by registered mail or
by personal service. Such notice shall state that the building has been
declared to be in a dangerous condition and such dangerous condition must be
removed or remedied by repairing or altering the building or by demolishing it;
and that the condition must be remedied at once. Such notice may be in the
following terms:
 
TO:                                                                                (owner-occupant) of the premises known and described as                                                                                                                                                                   .
 
You are hereby notified that                                                                                                               (describe building) on the premises above mentioned has been condemned as a nuisance and dangerous building after inspection by                                                                                      .
 
The causes for this decision are                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (here insert the facts as to the dangerous condition).
 
You must remedy this condition or demolish the building immediately.
 
(1960 Code, § 26-3-3)
§ 93.043 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   If the notice sent to the owner or occupant is to inform him or her of
violation of §
93.040(A)(4) of this chapter, and said owner or occupant fails to remedy the
situation within 15 days from the time when the notice was served upon him, her
or them, the Health Officer or the Building Official may proceed to remedy the
condition by having the building enclosed through boarding up or any other
means.
   (B)   If the building is enclosed or boarded up by the city, the cost and
expenses thereof shall become a lien on the property and the notice of the lien
for the cost and expenses thereof shall be recorded in the following manner:
the city or the person performing the service by authority of the city, in its
or his or her own name, may file notice of lien in the office of the Recorder
of Deeds of the county. The notice of lien shall consist of a sworn statement
setting out:
      (1)   A description of real estate sufficient for identification thereof;
      (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expenses incurred or
payable for the service; and
      (3)   The date or dates when said cost or expenses was incurred by the
city and shall be filed within 60 days after the cost and expenses incurred.
   (C)   Upon payment of the cost and expenses after the notice of lien has
been filed, the lien shall be released by the city or person in whose name the
lien has been filed and the release shall be filed of record in the same manner
as filing notice of lien.
   (D)   The lien may be enforced by proceedings to foreclose it as in the case
of mortgages or mechanics lien and such suits to foreclose such lien shall be
commenced within three years after the date of default.
   (E)   (1)   If the owner or occupant fails to comply with a notice of
violation of §
93.040(A)(1), (A)(2) and (A)(3) of this chapter, the city may demolish, repair
or cause the demolition or repair of the dangerous and unsafe building, but
before it may do so, the city shall apply to the Circuit Court of the county
for an order authorizing such action to be taken with respect to any such
building if the owner or owners thereof, including the lienholders of record
after at least 15 days’ written notice by mail or personal service so to do
have failed to put such building in a safe condition or demolish it. Whereupon
diligent search of the identity or whereabouts of the owner or owners of any
such building, including the lienholders of record is not ascertainable, notice
mailed to the person or persons in whose name such real estate was last
assessed is sufficient notice under this section. The cost of such demolition
or repair incurred by such city or by a lienholder of record is recoverable
from the owner or owners of such real estate and is a lien thereon, which lien
is superior to all prior existing liens or encumbrances, except taxes; provided
that, within 60 days after such repair or demolition, the city or person
performing the service by authority of the city, in its or his or her own name,
shall file notice of lien of such cost and expenses incurred in the office of
the Recorder of Deeds in the county.
      (2)   The notice must consist of a sworn statement setting out:
         (a)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
         (b)   The amount of money representing the cost and expenses incurred;
and
         (c)   The date or dates when the cost or expenses was incurred by the
city or by the lienholder of record.
   (F)   (1)   Upon payment of the cost and expenses by the owner of or person
interested in the property after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall
be released by the city or person in whose name the lien has been filed and the
release may be filed of record in the case of filing the notice of lien.
      (2)   The lien may be enforced by proceedings to foreclose as in the case
of mortgage or mechanics liens.
      (3)   Suit to foreclose this lien must be commenced within three years
after the date of filing notice of lien.
(1960 Code, § 26-3-4)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1 et seq.
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 93.055 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DERELICT VEHICLE. Any inoperable or unregistered vehicle.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any motor vehicle which, for a period of at least seven days, or
any greater period, fixed by ordinance; the engine, wheels or other parts have
been removed; or in which the engine, wheels or other parts have been altered,
damaged or otherwise so treated, that the vehicle is incapable of being driven
under its own motor power.
      (2)   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES shall not include a motor vehicle which
has been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven under its own motor
power in order to perform ordinary service or repair operations.
(1960 Code, § 26-4-1) (Ord. 7146, passed 7-8-2008)
§ 93.056 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   All inoperable/derelict motor vehicles, whether on public or private
property, in view of the general public are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(1960 Code, § 26-4-2) (Ord. 5589, passed 6-5-1996) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.057 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   If the owner fails to dispose of said inoperable vehicles, after seven days
from the issuance of the notice, the Police Department may authorized a towing
service to remove and take possession of said inoperable vehicle or parts
thereof.
(1960 Code, § 26-4-3) (Ord. 5589, passed 6-5-1996)
§ 93.058 REMOVAL.
   (A)   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is inoperable on a highway in
the city ten hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be authorized
by order of the Chief of the Police Department of the city.
   (B)   When an inoperable, unattended, wrecked, burned or partially
dismantled motor vehicle or other vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because
of its position in relation to the highway or its physical appearance is
causing the impeding of traffic, its immediate removal from the highway by a
towing service may be authorized by order of the Chief of Police Department of
the city.
   (C)   When a vehicle removed from either public or private property is
authorized by order of the Chief of the Police Department of the city, the
owner of the vehicle will be responsible for all towing costs.
(1960 Code, § 26-4-4) (Ord. 4490, passed 2-15-1988)
§ 93.059 RECORDS OF TOW AWAYS.
   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is authorized to be towed away, the
Police Department shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed,
listing the color, year of manufacture, manufacturer’s trade name,
manufacturer’s series name, body style, vehicle identification number and
license plate year and number displayed on the vehicle. The record shall also
include the date and hour of tow, location towed from, location towed to,
reason for towing and the name of the officer authorizing the tow.
(1960 Code, § 26-4-5)
§ 93.060 SEARCH FOR OWNER.
   (A)   When the city’s Police Department does not know the identity of the
registered owner, lienholder or other legally entitled person, they will cause
the motor vehicle registration records of the state to be searched by a
directed communication to the Secretary of State for the purpose of obtaining
the required ownership information.
   (B)   The Police Department will cause the stolen motor vehicle files of the
State Police to be searched by a directed communication to the State Police for
stolen or wanted information on the vehicle. When the State Police files are
searched with negative results, the information contained in the National Crime
Information Center (NCIC) files will be searched by the State Police. The
information determined from these record searches will be used by the Police
Department in sending a notification by certified mail to the owner or legally
entitled person advising where the vehicle is held, requesting a disposition be
made and setting forth public sale information.
(1960 Code, § 26-4-6)
§ 93.061 NOTICE TO STATE POLICE.
   When the registered owner or other person legally entitled to the possession
of a motor vehicle or other vehicle cannot be identified from the registration
files of the state or from the registration files of a foreign state, if
applicable, the Police Department shall notify the State Police for the purpose
of identifying the vehicle’s owner, lienholder or other person legally entitled
to the possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by the State Police
will be immediately forwarded to the law enforcement agency having custody of
the vehicle for notification of owner.
(1960 Code, § 26-4-7) (Ord. 4490, passed 2-15-1988)
§ 93.062 RECLAIMING BY OWNER.
   Any time before a motor vehicle or other vehicle is sold at public sale or
disposed of as provided herein, the owner, lienholder or other person legally
entitled to its possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the Police
Department proof of ownership or proof of the right to possession of the
vehicle. No vehicle shall be released to the owner or other person under this
section until all towing and storage charges have been paid.
(1960 Code, § 26-4-8)
§ 93.063 SALE OF UNCLAIMED NEW VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever an inoperable, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle
or other vehicle, seven years of age or newer, remains unclaimed by the
registered owner, lienholder or other person legally entitled to its possession
for a period of 30 days after notice has been given as provided herein, the
Police Department having possession of the vehicle shall cause it to be sold at
public sale to the highest bidder.
      (2)   Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be posted in a
conspicuous place for at least ten days prior to the sale on the premises where
the vehicle has been impounded. At least ten days prior to the sale, the Police
Department shall cause a notice of the time and place of the sale to be sent by
certified mail to the registered owner, lienholder or other person legally
entitled to the possession of the vehicle.
      (3)   Such notice shall contain a complete description of the vehicle to
be sold and what steps must be taken by any legally entitled person to reclaim
the vehicle.
   (B)   In those instances where the certified notification specified herein
has been returned by the postal authorities to the Police Department due to the
addressee having moved, or being unknown at the address obtained from the
registration records of the state, the sending of a second certified notice
will not be required.
(1960 Code, § 26-4-9)
§ 93.064 DISPOSITION OF UNIDENTIFIED VEHICLE OR OLD VEHICLE.
   (A)   When the identity of the registered owner, lienholder or other person
legally entitled to the possession of an inoperable, lost or unclaimed vehicle
of seven years of age or newer cannot be determined by any means provided for
in this section, the vehicle may be sold as provided herein or disposed of in
the manner authorized by ordinance without notice to the registered owner,
lienholder or other person legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   When an inoperable vehicle of more than seven years of age is
impounded as specified by this section, it will be kept in custody for a
minimum of ten days for the purpose of determining ownership, the contacting of
the registered owner by the U.S. mail, public service or in person for a
determination of disposition and an examination of the State Police stolen
motor vehicle files for theft and wanted information.
      (2)   At the expiration of the ten-day period, without the benefit of
disposition information being received from the registered owner, the Chief of
Police will authorize the disposal of the vehicle as junk only.
   (C)   A motor vehicle or other vehicle classified as an antique vehicle is
excluded from this section.
(1960 Code, § 26-4-10)
§ 93.065 REPORTS.
   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in the custody of the Police
Department is reclaimed by the registered owner, lienholder or other legally
entitled person, or when the vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise
disposed of as provided in this subchapter, a report of the transaction will be
maintained by the Police Department for a period of one year from the date of
the sale or disposal.
(1960 Code, § 26-4-11)
§ 93.066 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of the city is authorized
to be towed away by the Chief of Police and disposed of as set forth in this
subchapter, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition after the deduction
of towing, storage and processing charges shall be deposited in the municipal
treasury.
(1960 Code, § 26-4-12)
§ 93.067 LIABILITY.
   Any police officer, towing service owner, operator or employee shall not be
held to answer or be liable for damages in any action brought by the registered
owner, lienholder or his or her legal representative, or any other person
legally entitled to the possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle when the
vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of as provided by this subchapter.
(1960 Code, § 26-4-13)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-40-3 and 625 ILCS 5/4-201 et seq.
LIGHTING REGULATIONS
§ 93.080 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIRECT LIGHT. Light emitted directly from the lamp, off of the reflector or
reflector or reflector diffuser, or through the refractor or diffuser lens, of
a luminaire.
   DISABILITY GLARE. The reduction in visibility caused by intense light
sources in the field of view.
   FIXTURE. The assembly that houses the lamp or lamps and can include all or
some of the following parts: a housing; a mounting bracket or pole socket; a
lamp holder; a ballast; a reflector or mirror; and/or a refractor or lens.
   FLOOD OR SPOT LIGHT. Any light fixture or lamp that incorporates a reflector
or a refractor to concentrate the light output into a directed beam in a
particular direction.
   GLARE. The visual sensation caused by excessive and uncontrolled brightness.
   OBJECTIONABLE LIGHT. Any offensive light that falls outside the area
intended to be lighted and cast where it is not wanted.
(1960 Code, § 26-5-1) (Ord. 6880, passed 8-7-2006; Ord. 9046-2022, passed 5-16-
2022)
§ 93.081 REGULATIONS.
   All public and private outdoor lighting installed in the city shall be in
conformance with the requirements established by this subchapter. All previous
language in city bylaws and ordinances regarding outdoor lighting is replaced
with this subchapter.
(1960 Code, § 26-5-2) (Ord. 6880, passed 8-7-2006) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.082 CONTROL OF GLARE; LUMINAIRE DESIGN FACTORS.
   (A)   Any luminaire with a lamp, lamps, all flood and spot luminaries shall
be mounted at a height equal to or less than the value 3+ (D/3), where D is the
distance in feet to the nearest property boundary. The maximum height of the
luminaire may not exceed 25 feet.
   (B)   All exterior lights and illuminated signs shall be designed, located,
installed and directed in such a manner as to prevent objectionable light at,
and glare across, the property lines and disability glare at any location on or
off the premises.
(1960 Code, § 26-5-3) (Ord. 6880, passed 8-7-2006; Ord. 9043-2022, passed 5-2-
2022) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.083 EXCEPTIONS TO CONTROL OF GLARE.
   (A)   Any luminaire with a lamp, lamps, all flood and spot luminaries may be
used without restriction to light distribution or mounting height; except that,
if any spot of flood luminaire is aimed, directed or focused such as to cause
direct light from the luminaire to be directed toward residential building on
adjacent or nearby property, or to create glare perceptible to persons
operating motor vehicles on public ways, the luminaire shall be redirected,
diffused or its light output controlled as necessary to eliminate such
conditions.
   (B)   Luminaires used for public roadway illumination may be installed at a
maximum height of 25 feet and may be positioned at the height up to the edge of
any bordering property.
   (C)   All temporary emergency lighting needed by the Police or Fire
Departments or other emergency services, as well as the vehicular luminaries,
shall be exempt from the requirements of this subchapter.
   (D)   All hazard warning luminaries required by federal regulatory agencies
are exempt from the requirements of this subchapter; except that, all
luminaries used must be read and must be shown to be as close as possible to
the federally-required minimum lumen output requirement for the specific task.
   (E)   Luminaires used for sign illumination may be mounted at any height to
a maximum of 25 feet, regardless of lumen rating.
   (F)   Where any provision of federal, state, county or town statutes, codes
or laws conflicts with any provision of this subchapter, the most restrictive
shall govern unless otherwise regulated by law.
(1960 Code, § 26-5-4) (Ord. 6880, passed 8-7-2006) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.084 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   (A)   Top-mounted fixtures required.
      (1)   Lighting fixtures used to illuminate an outdoor advertising sign
shall be mounted on the top of the sign structure.
      (2)   All such fixtures shall comply with the shielding requirements of §
93.082 of this chapter.
   (B)   Compliance limit. Existing outdoor advertising structures shall be
brought into conformance with this subchapter within ten years from the date of
adoption of this provision.
   (C)   Prohibitions. Electrical illumination of outdoor advertising off-site
signs including existing signs between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and sunrise is
prohibited.
(1960 Code, § 26-5-5) (Ord. 6880, passed 8-7-2006) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.085 RECREATIONAL FACILITIES.
   Any light source permitted by this subchapter may be used for lighting of
outdoor recreational facilities (public or private), such as, but not limited
to, football fields, soccer fields, baseball fields, softball fields, tennis
courts or show areas; provided, all of the following conditions are met: all
fixtures used for event lighting shall be fully shielded as defined in §
93.082 of this chapter, or be designed or provided with sharp cut-off
capability, so as to minimize up-light, spill-light or glare.
(1960 Code, § 26-5-6) (Ord. 6880, passed 8-7-2006) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.086 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Laser source light. The use of laser source light, strobe or any
similar high intensity light for outdoor advertising or entertainment, when
projected above the horizontal is prohibited.
   (B)   Searchlights. The operation of searchlights for advertising purposes
is prohibited.
   (C)   Outdoor advertising off-site signs. Electrical illumination of outdoor
advertising off-site signs is prohibited between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and
sunrise.
(1960 Code, § 26-5-7) (Ord. 6880, passed 8-7-2006) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.087 TEMPORARY OUTDOOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   Any temporary outdoor lighting that conforms to the requirements of
this subchapter shall be allowed. Non-conforming temporary outdoor lighting may
be permitted by the Streets and Grades Committee after considering:
      (1)   The public and/or private benefits that will result from the
temporary lighting;
      (2)   Any annoyance or safety problems that may result from the use of
the temporary lighting; and
      (3)   The duration of the temporary non-conforming lighting.
   (B)   (1)   The applicant shall submit a detailed description of the
proposed temporary nonconforming lighting to the Streets and Grades Committee,
who shall consider the request at a monthly called meeting of the Streets and
Grades Committee. The Committee shall render its decision on the temporary
lighting request at the following monthly meeting.
      (2)   A failure by the Streets and Grades Committee to act on a request
within the time allowed shall constitute a denial of the request.
(1960 Code, § 26-5-8) (Ord. 6880, passed 8-7-2006)
§ 93.088 NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   This subchapter shall take effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication as provided by law. Any prior luminaries that direct light toward
streets or parking lots that cause disability glare to motorists or cyclists,
or direct light toward residential buildings that cause disability glare to
residents, should be either shielded or redirected within 30 days of
notification, so that the luminaries do not cause a potential hazard to
motorists or cyclists, or a nuisance to residents.
(1960 Code, § 26-5-9) (Ord. 6880, passed 8-7-2006)
§ 93.089 NOTICE TO ELECTRICIANS.
   Within 30 days of the enactment of this subchapter, the Code Enforcement
Officer shall send a copy of the Outdoor Lighting Ordinance, with cover letter,
to all electricians and local electric utility (including at least those in the
city as listed in the Yellow Pages).
(1960 Code, § 26-5-10) (Ord. 6880, passed 8-7-2006)
FURNITURE AND APPLIANCES LEFT OUTDOORS
§ 93.100 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLIANCES. Includes, but not limited to, indoor household kitchen
appliances, such as cooking stoves, ovens, microwave cooking units,
dishwashers, washing machines and dryers.
   FURNITURE. Includes, but not limited to, upholstered indoor chairs and
couches and finished and unfinished indoor chairs, cabinets, chests, cupboards
and tables that were built specifically to be used indoors.
   INDOOR UPHOLSTERED FURNITURE. Any furniture constructed with stuffing or
cushions or springs, not intended for outdoor use.
   OUTDOORS. Any place visible from a public place and exposed to
precipitation, including, but not limited to, yards, rooftops and unenclosed
porches, decks, patios and balconies.
   UNENCLOSED. Any area not totally surrounded with a combination of walls,
windows, doors, floor and a roof.
(1960 Code, § 26-6-1) (Ord. 7036, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 93.101 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall place, use, keep, store or maintain outdoors any
indoor furniture or appliances not manufactured for outdoor use.
   (B)   No real property owner or real property manager or other person in
control of such real property shall permit indoor furniture to remain outdoors
on such real property after it has been placed there in violation of this
section.
(1960 Code, § 26-6-2) (Ord. 7036, passed 11-6-2007) Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.102 EXCEPTIONS.
   Except when said indoor furniture is placed at the curb to be removed the
same day as part of bulky waste removal, or when said furniture is placed
outdoors as part of a lawful garage sale or other sale, where permitted or
licensed, and otherwise allowed under city ordinance.
(1960 Code, § 26-6-3) (Ord. 7036, passed 11-6-2007)
§ 93.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The fine for violating §
93.002(C) shall be $500 for each offense.
(1960 Code, § 26-1-2)
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §§
93.040 through
93.043 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount not less than $250, nor more
than $1,000. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue
shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such. The court
shall also order as part of the judgment that the defendant comply with all
applicable codes and ordinances relating to the property which is the subject
of the violation.
(1960 Code, § 26-3-5)
   (D)   Any person violating any provision of §§
93.055 through
93.067 of this chapter or any part thereof shall be fined in an amount not less
than $50, nor more than $1,000. Each day such violation is committed or
permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such. The court shall also order as part of the judgment that the
defendant comply with all applicable codes and ordinances relating to the
property which is the subject of the violation.
(1960 Code, § 26-4-14)
   (E)   (1)   Any person violating §§
93.080 through
93.089 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $50 or more than $1,000.
      (2)   If, after investigation, the Code Enforcement Officer finds that
any provision of §§
93.080 through
93.089 of this chapter is being violated, he or she shall give notice by hand
delivery or by certified mail, return-receipt requested, of such violation to
the owner and/or to the occupant of such premises, demanding that violation to
the owner and/or to the occupant of such premises, demanding that violation be
abated within 30 days of the date of hand delivery or of the date of mailing of
the notice. If the violation is not abated within the 30-day period, the Code
Enforcement Officer may institute actions and proceedings, either legal or
equitable, to enjoin, restrain or abate any violations of this code and to
collect the penalties for such violations.
(1960 Code, § 26-5-11)
   (F)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate or permit violation
of any provision of § 92.101 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine of not less than $75, nor more than $500. Each day of the
violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
(1960 Code, § 26-6-1)
(Ord. 5763, passed 7-21-1997; Ord. 6880, passed 8-7-2006; Ord. 7036, passed 11-
6-2007; Ord. 7099, passed 4-8-2008)
CHAPTER 94: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
94.01   Park regulations
   
94.02   Fishing regulations
   
94.03   Riding bicycles in Skateboard Park
   
94.04   Vendors
   
94.05   Trail guidelines
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 PARK REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations shall apply in all city parks (Belleville Heart
Garden, Bellevue Park, Bicentennial Park, Cambridge Park, Centreville Avenue
Mini Park, Citizens Park, Dawn Heights Mini Park, East End Park, Ebsen Park,
Ever and Anon Park, Gass Park, Gateway Municipal Entrance Park, Hough Park,
Jaycees Park, Laderman Park, North End Park, Optimist Park, Paderbom Square,
Pleasant Hill Park, Rotary Park, Scheel Street Mini Park, Skateboard Park,
South Side Park, West End Public Square).
   (A)   Any person picnicking or visiting in the parks shall properly dispose
of all litter by placing it in the litter receptacle indicated for such use.
   (B)   Fires may be made only in such places as designated by, and with the
permission of, the Director of Parks and Recreation.
   (C)   Fires may only be started in the proper fire receptacles provided and
must be completely extinguished before leaving the fire receptacle unattended.
   (D)   No person shall remove or damage any piece of equipment, court,
special facility, structure or area being a part of parks and recreation
property.
   (E)   No person shall climb on any roof of any building, shelter or
structure located on park property.
   (F)   No firearms, shooting or hunting are permitted on park property.
   (G)   No peddlers or vendors shall dispose of wares in competition with any
concession in the parks within a range of two blocks of the parks.
   (H)   No motor vehicle or vehicles of any kind are to be driven or ridden on
park property turf and walking trails. Vehicles shall not be driven in a
spinning fashion or operated in an erratic manner so as to endanger the safety
of others in a park or their property. For purposes of this division (H), MOTOR
VEHICLE is defined to include any vehicle that is propelled by motor, including
an automobile, truck,
motorcycle or similar vehicle, but shall not include motorized equipment
utilized for disability access and city vehicles utilized for maintenance,
emergency, police and/or fire purposes.
   (I)   The speed limit of any vehicle in the parks, except emergency
vehicles, shall be 15 mph and is to be strictly observed.
   (J)   Courts, athletic diamonds and fields, shelters and any other special
facilities, and/or areas designated as a special area, in the parks are to be
used only by reservation through written consent of the Director of Parks and
Recreation.
   (K)   No person shall engage in disorderly conduct, in any manner, infringe
on the rights of others in a park, or disrupt the recreation program, parks
maintenance and/or parks security family.
   (L)   No bathing, swimming or wading is permitted in the ponds.
   (M)   No trapping of animals or wildlife of any kind is permitted without
the written permission of the Director of Parks and Recreation.
   (N)   Feeding of animals or wildlife is permitted only at the designated
feeding stations.
   (O)   All parks, except Skateboard Park, shall be opened to the public for
recreation programs from dawn to dusk daily between Labor Day and Memorial Day,
and from dawn to 7:00 p.m. daily between Memorial Day and Labor Day. Skateboard
Park shall be opened to the public for recreation programs between 6:00 a.m.
and dusk daily. It shall be unlawful for any person to be in the parks after
these hours unless they are attending an event sponsored by the Parks and
Recreation Board or an event for which a facility reservation and usage permit
has been granted.
   (P)   Parks security families and maintenance personnel are responsible for
the enforcement of all park regulations through full cooperation with the law
enforcement agency of the city.
   (Q)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or use a boat of any kind
on any park pond unless they are attending an event sponsored by the Parks and
Recreation Board.
   (R)   It shall be unlawful for any person who is not a patron of Bellevue
Park to park his or her automobile on the Bellevue Park parking lot.
   (S)   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to possess alcohol in
Bellevue Park except for the Stone Lodge Building by written permission of the
Director of Parks and Recreation and written notification to the Liquor
Commissioner, Ebsen Park, John Laderman Park, West End Square Park on north or
south side, Cambridge Park 15 103 N. 30th Street, Gateway Park at 903 N.
Illinois Street, Skateboard Park at 709 N. 2nd Street or Richland Creek
Greenway Bike Trail.
   (T)   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to possess alcohol in
Rotary, Ever and Anon, Hough, Southside and Pleasant Hill Parks unless he or
she has been issued a permit by the Mayor with Council approval.
   (U)   Overnight recreational vehicle parking on city-owned property between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. is prohibited, including but not limited
to city parks.
(1960 Code, § 31-1-1) (Ord. 3439, passed 6-27-1977; Ord. 3822, passed 8-31-
1981; Ord. 6745, passed 6-6-2005; Ord. 6812, passed 1-3-2006; Ord. 6925, passed
11-6-2006; Ord. 7698, passed 7-15-2013; Ord. 7936, passed 3-21-2016; Ord. 8291-
2018, passed 12-17-2018; Ord. 8348-2019, passed 7-15-2019; Ord. 8968-2021,
passed 7-19-2021; Ord. 8981-2021, passed 8-16-2021; Am. Ord. 9367-2025, passed
3-3-2025) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 FISHING REGULATIONS.
   The following fishing regulations shall apply at all city parks.
   (A)   Minors fishing in the ponds must be accompanied by a guardian.
   (B)   Only pole and line fishing is permitted and only two poles to each
person fishing.
   (C)   No person shall catch, kill or take frogs on the park property.
   (D)   No person shall deposit any species of fish in any pond without the
written permission of the Director of Parks and Recreation.
   (E)   There is no fish limit on rough fish and rough fish caught are not to
be put back or released in any park pond.
   (F)   Persons who fish in the ponds must comply with the state fishing laws.
(1960 Code, § 31-1-2) (Ord. 3220, passed 4-15-1974; Ord. 3822, passed 8-31-
1981) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 RIDING BICYCLES IN SKATEBOARD PARK.
   It shall be unlawful to ride a bicycle in Skateboard Park.
(1960 Code, § 31-1-4) (Ord. 6350, passed 11-26-2001) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 VENDORS.
   Any vendor that is hired to work school picnics or any event sponsored by
the Parks Department or is hired to work any event that is sponsored by the
city on public property shall, 14 days prior to the event, submit a list of
their employees along with birth dates and Social Security numbers and a
release form from said employees to allow history check so that the background
of said employees may be investigated.
(1960 Code, § 31-1-5) (Ord. 6812, passed 1-3-2006) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.05 TRAIL GUIDELINES.
   The following guidelines/regulations shall apply to all city trails:
   (A)   Trail hours: sunrise to sunset;
   (B)   No unauthorized motorized vehicles allowed except for wheelchairs;
   (C)   Walkers and runners stay to the right;
   (D)   Bicyclists yield to pedestrians;
   (E)   Please announce "on your left" as you prepare to pass slower traffic;
   (F)   No firearms allowed;
   (G)   Alcoholic beverage consumption is prohibited;
   (H)   Dogs must be leashed at all times. Maximum leash length allowed is six
feet;
   (I)   Please dispose of litter properly;
   (J)   For maintenance concerns, please call the Director of Public Works at
(618) 239-3454; and
   (K)   In case of emergency, dial 9-1-1. Or utilize an emergency call box
where available.
(Ord. 8187-2018, passed 4-16-2018) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to a fine of not less than $10, nor more than $500.
(1960 Code, § 31-1-3)
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating §
94.01(P) of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than $100, nor
more than $500.
      (2)   Any person violating §
94.01(T) shall be subject to a fine of not less than $250, nor more than $500.
(1960 Code, § 31-1-1)
   (C)   Any person violating §
94.03 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine not less than $100, nor more
than $500.
(1960 Code, § 31-1-4)
(Ord. 3220, passed 4-15-1974; Ord. 6350, passed 11-26-2001; Ord. 6745, passed
6-6-2005; Ord. 6925, passed 11-6-2006; Ord. 7936, passed 3-21-2016)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
111.   AMUSEMENTS AND RECREATION; RAFFLES
      
112.   EMERGENCY SERVICES; HOMELESS SHELTERS
      
113.   SPECIAL SALES; PERSONAL SALES
      
114.   JUNK DEALERS; SCAVENGERS
      
115.   ITINERANT MERCHANTS, MOBILE COMMERCE VENDORS, PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
116.   VEHICLE-RELATED BUSINESSES
      
117.   LODGING BUSINESSES
      
118.   FOOD AND BEVERAGE BUSINESSES
      
119.   HEALING ARTS
      
120.   INSTALLMENT LOAN BUSINESSES
      
121.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
122.   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESSES
      
123.   ADULT-USE CANNABIS
      
124.   USED CAR DEALERS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
License Administration
   
110.01   Mayor’s authority
   
110.02   Application
   
110.03   Issuance
   
110.04   Form
   
110.05   License register
   
110.06   Investigation by Police Chief
   
110.07   Terms and limitations
   
110.08   Change in regulations
   
110.09   Enforcement; offenses
   
110.10   Lost license
   
110.11   Stealing, mutilation or destruction of license
   
110.12   Late payment penalty
Certificate of Business Occupancy
   
110.25   Occupancy permit required
   
110.26   Fees; rebate
   
110.27   Application; action
   
110.28   Building and premises regulation
   
110.29   Property Maintenance Code
   
110.30   Inspections
   
110.31   Prohibition against nuisances
   
110.32   Permit issuance
   
110.33   Conditional permit
   
110.34   Rejection of application
   
110.35   Occupancy register
   
110.36   Limitation of business occupancy activity
   
110.37   Change in regulations
   
110.38   Enforcement
   
110.39   Transfer prohibition
   
110.40   Posting permit
   
110.41   Suspension or revocation of permit; appeals
 
   
110.99   Penalty
LICENSE ADMINISTRATION
§ 110.01 MAYOR’S AUTHORITY.
   Licenses shall be granted by the Mayor and attested by the City Clerk,
except where provision is made for the granting of licenses by some other
officer of the city. The Mayor shall have the power to revoke, for cause, any
license granted by him or her.
(1960 Code, § 7-1-1) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 110.02 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every applicant for a license shall apply in writing to the Mayor.
   (B)   He or she shall set forth in such application his or her name and, if
the application is made by or on behalf of a co-partnership, the names of all
the members together with the style of such co-partnership, and the names of
the sureties if a bond is required. If the applicant has a permanent or fixed
place of business, it shall be stated in the application.
(1960 Code, § 7-1-2) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 110.03 ISSUANCE.
   (A)   (1)   Licenses shall be issued under the hand of the Mayor and shall
be countersigned by the City Clerk, who shall affix thereto the seal of the
city.
      (2)   No license shall be issued until the applicant has executed bond,
payable to the city, in the penalty prescribed and has paid the license fee.
(1960 Code, § 7-1-3)
   (B)   No person shall be issued a license by the city if that person is in
arrears in a payment of a tax or other indebtedness due to the city.
(1960 Code, § 7-1-11)
(Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995; Ord. 5878, passed 5-4-1998)
§ 110.04 FORM.
   Licenses shall be substantially in the following form:
 
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
COUNTY OF ST. CLAIR   )   
CITY OF BELLEVILLE   )
 
   Said license is subject to all laws of the State of Illinois and all ordinances of the City of Belleville not in conflict therewith, which now are or hereafter may be in force
touching the premises from the date hereof until the 30th day of April,                  .
 
Given under the hand of the Mayor of the City of Belleville and the seal thereof, this              day of                          ,                   .
 
                                                                                            
         Mayor of the City of Belleville
 
Countersigned,
                                                 
City Clerk
 
(1960 Code, § 7-1-4) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 110.05 LICENSE REGISTER.
   The City Clerk shall keep a license register in which he or she shall enter
the name of each person to whom a license is issued, the purpose of such
license and the date of issue and expiration. He or she shall furnish a
transcript thereof to the Chief of Police.
(1960 Code, § 7-1-5) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 110.06 INVESTIGATION BY POLICE CHIEF.
   The Chief of Police shall examine the transcript furnished by the City Clerk
and ascertain if any person whose license has expired is engaged in any
business in the city without the required license.
(1960 Code, § 7-1-6) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 110.07 TERMS AND LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   No license shall be issued for a longer period of than one year.
Annual license fees, unless otherwise provided, shall be due and payable on May
1 of each year, or on commencing the licensed activity. In the first case, the
license fee shall be paid for one entire year; in the latter case, it shall be
computed proportionately from the first day of the month in which liability to
pay accrues until the first day of May next following.
(1960 Code, § 7-1-7)
   (B)   No person may do business or act under any license, except the
licensee; nor shall a license authorize any person to act or do business at any
place other than the place specified in the license.
(1960 Code, § 7-1-8)
(Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 CHANGE IN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Licenses are subject to all ordinances and regulations which may be in
force at the time of issuing the license or which may be passed or made while
the license is in force.
   (B)   If any licensee violates any of the provisions thereof, he or she
shall be liable to be proceeded against for any penalty imposed and his or her
license shall be subject to revocation in the discretion of the Mayor, or of
the court or magistrate before whom he or she is convicted of such violation.
(1960 Code, § 7-1-9) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 110.09 ENFORCEMENT; OFFENSES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to enforce the provisions
of this subchapter in relation to licenses and to prosecute any person guilty
of a violation.
(1960 Code, § 7-1-10)
   (B)   Each day, after the first conviction, that any person continues in any
business or occupation without the proper license therefor is a separate
offense.
(1960 Code, § 7-1-11)
(Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 110.10 LOST LICENSE.
   Whenever any person who has obtained a license for any vehicle files an
affidavit in the office of the City Clerk that the license issued under such
license is lost, stolen or destroyed, the City Clerk shall issue a new license
and shall put the license number upon the license issued and upon the stub in
his or her office, upon the payment by the person applying for same of a fee of
$0.50. Thereafter, the original license shall be void.
(1960 Code, § 7-1-12) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 110.11 STEALING, MUTILATION OR DESTRUCTION OF LICENSE.
   No person, other than the holder thereof, shall steal, mutilate or destroy
any license, license sticker, plate or tag issued and in force under any
ordinance of the city.
(1960 Code, § 7-1-13) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.12 LATE PAYMENT PENALTY.
   Any person who has failed to pay for his or her license by May 15 shall pay
an additional 25% of the license fee in order to receive said license; and, if
said license is not paid by July 30, he or she shall pay an additional 50% of
the license fee in order to obtain said license; or, in the alternative, said
license may be revoked if said fee is not paid by July 30.
(1960 Code, § 7-1-14) (Ord. 6456, passed 8-19-2002)
CERTIFICATE OF BUSINESS OCCUPANCY
§ 110.25 OCCUPANCY PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, owner or agent thereof to occupy
or use, or to permit the occupancy or use of any property for the purpose of
operating a business on said premises until a permit of occupancy for a
business has been issued by the Economic Development, Planning and Zoning
Department.
   (B)   The certificate so issued shall state the occupancy complies with all
of the ordinances and regulations which may be in force at time of issuing
occupancy or which may be passed or made while the occupancy is in force.
(1960 Code, § 7-25-1) (Ord. 7127, passed 4-22-2008; Ord. 7858, passed 5-18-
2015) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.26 FEES; REBATE.
   (A)   A fee of $100 shall be charged for each request for a certificate of
occupancy. The business occupancy permit shall be obtained by the tenant,
occupant or owner and must be secured before the unit(s) can be legally
occupied.
(1960 Code, § 7-25-2)
   (B)   In no event shall any rebate or refund be made of any business
occupancy permit fee or part thereof by reason of the death of the applicant or
by reason of nonuse of such permit, or by reason of a change in the location of
the business, occupation or activity of such permit; provided, however, that
the provisions of this division (B) shall not be construed to prevent the
Director of Economic Development, Planning and Zoning from authorizing a refund
of a business occupancy permit or a portion thereof, where the fee was
collected through error.
(1960 Code, § 7-25-17)
(Ord. 7127, passed 4-22-2008; Ord. 7858, passed 5-18-2015)
§ 110.27 APPLICATION; ACTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly make any false
statement on an application for an occupancy permit for the purpose of
operating a business.
(1960 Code, § 7-25-3)
   (B)   (1)   The city shall examine, or cause to be examined, all
applications within a reasonable time after filing. The city shall cause the
premises to be inspected within 15 working days after filing.
      (2)   If the premises are not in compliance with all laws and ordinances
applicable thereto, the city shall provide the applicant with a list of defects
that are not in compliance. Said defects shall be listed with as much
specificity as possible.
      (3)   The owner or occupant of every business unit shall give the city
free access thereto, at all reasonable times, for the purpose of such
inspection.
(1960 Code, § 7-25-4)
(Ord. 7127, passed 4-22-2008; Ord. 7858, passed 5-18-2015) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.28 BUILDING AND PREMISES REGULATION.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued for the conduct of any business, occupation
or activity if the premises of the building to be used for such purpose do not
fully comply with all applicable provisions of this subchapter, including the
fire prevention and building and zoning regulations.
   (B)   (1)   Any business, trade or occupation subject to the business
occupancy permit shall be conducted in all respects in accordance with all
applicable ordinances of the city.
      (2)   Said business, trade or occupation shall be conducted on premises
which conform to the provisions of the Zoning Code, Building Code, Plumbing
Code, Fire Protection Code and all other applicable ordinances.
      (3)   The Economic Development, Planning and Zoning Department or other
duly designated officer or employer of the city may cause such inspection to be
made as shall be required to ensure the operation of such business, trade or
occupation in full conformance with the ordinances of the city.
(1960 Code, § 7-25-5) (Ord. 7127, passed 4-22-2008; Ord. 7858, passed 5-18-
2015)
§ 110.29 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   The International Property Maintenance Code of 2006 as amended is hereby
adopted to apply to non- residential structures.
(1960 Code, § 7-25-6) (Ord. 7127, passed 4-22-2008; Ord. 7858, passed 5-18-
2015)
Cross-reference:
   Property Maintenance Code, see
Ch. 154
§ 110.30 INSPECTIONS.
   Whenever the inspections of the premises, vehicles, equipment or methods of
operation used in conducting a business, occupation or activity are authorized
or required by this subchapter, or are reasonably necessary to secure
compliance with any provision of this subchapter or to detect violations
thereof, it shall be the duty of the occupant or person in charge of such
premises, vehicles, equipment or methods of operation to permit, at any
reasonable time, any officer or employee of the city who is authorized or
directed to make such inspections to be admitted to such premises, to have
access to such vehicles or equipment, and to observe such methods of operation
for the purpose of making said inspections.
(1960 Code, § 7-25-7) (Ord. 7127, passed 4-22-2008; Ord. 7858, passed 5-18-
2015) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.31 PROHIBITION AGAINST NUISANCES.
   (A)   No business, trade or occupation shall be carried on in any manner
which will create a public or private nuisance, nor shall such operation be
carried on in a manner which will produce unreasonably offensive noise, odor or
other physical disturbances at or beyond the property line of the premises at
which such operations take place, or otherwise threaten the public health,
safety, morale or welfare or quality of life. Unreasonably offensive noise may
include noises due to intermittence, beat frequency, volume or shrillness so it
does not become a nuisance to adjacent users.
   (B)   The prohibition contained herein shall be an additional regulation
besides those otherwise provided by this subchapter and shall not be deemed to
be a limitation on any other ordinance.
(1960 Code, § 7-25-8) (Ord. 7127, passed 4-22-2008; Ord. 7858, passed 5-18-
2015; Ord. 8996-2021, passed 10-18-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.32 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   If all the fees are paid and the city is satisfied that the premises
and its occupancy are in compliance with all laws and ordinances applicable
thereto, the Economic Development, Planning and Zoning Department shall issue
the occupancy permit as soon as practicable.
   (B)   Any permit issued shall become invalid if the occupancy is not
commenced within six months after issuance of the permit or if the occupancy is
terminated.
(1960 Code, § 7-25-9) (Ord. 7127, passed 4-22-2008; Ord. 7858, passed 5-18-
2015)
§ 110.33 CONDITIONAL PERMIT.
   Occupancy shall be permitted on a conditional basis when in the judgment of
the city practical difficulties interfere with completing all repairs required
to bring the premises into full compliance with all laws and ordinances prior
to permitting occupancy. However, no conditional permit shall be issued when
there is a condition on the premises which can threaten the health or safety of
an occupant. No conditional permit shall be issued under the provisions of this
subchapter for premises which have been newly constructed, newly altered, or on
which a change in use is proposed unless a certificate of compliance has first
been issued under the provisions of the Building Code.
(1960 Code, § 7-25-10) (Ord. 7127, passed 4-22-2008; Ord. 7858, passed 5-18-
2015)
§ 110.34 REJECTION OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   If the application does not comply with the requirements of all
pertinent laws, the city shall reject such application in writing, stating the
reasons therefore.
   (B)   Furthermore, the city may reject an application or deny an occupancy
permit in such case when an applicant or person applying for an occupancy
permit has failed to pay liens, sewer debts, trash collection fees or any other
fees which are due to the city.
(1960 Code, § 7-25-11) (Ord. 7127, passed 4-22-2008; Ord. 7858, passed 5-18-
2015)
§ 110.35 OCCUPANCY REGISTER.
   The Economic Development, Planning and Zoning Department shall keep an
occupancy register in which they will enter the name of each person to whom a
license is issued, the purpose of such license and the date of issuance.
(1960 Code, § 7-25-13) (Ord. 7127, passed 4-22-2008; Ord. 7858, passed 5-18-
2015)
§ 110.36 LIMITATION OF BUSINESS OCCUPANCY ACTIVITY.
   No person may do business or act under any occupancy permit except the
occupant; nor shall an occupancy permit authorize any person to act or do
business at any place other than the place specified on the occupancy permit.
(1960 Code, § 7-25-14) (Ord. 7127, passed 4-22-2008; Am. Ord. 7858, passed 5-
18-2015) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.37 CHANGE IN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Business occupancy permits are subject to all ordinance and
regulations which may be in force at the time of issuing the permit or which
may be passed or made while the license is in force.
   (B)   If any occupant violates any of the provisions thereof, he or she
shall be liable to be proceeded against for any penalty imposed and his or her
permit shall be subject to revocation at the discretion of the Mayor, or of the
court before which they are convicted of such violation.
(1960 Code, § 7-25-15) (Ord. 7127, passed 4-22-2008; Am. Ord. 7858, passed 5-
18-2015) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.38 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department and the Health, Housing and
Building Department to enforce the provisions of this subchapter in relation to
business occupancy permits and to prosecute any person guilty of a violation.
(1960 Code, § 7-25-16) (Ord. 7127, passed 4-22-2008; Am. Ord. 7858, passed 5-
18-2015)
§ 110.39 TRANSFER PROHIBITION.
   No occupant may assign, sell or transfer his or her permit to any other
person, even if such other person(s) intends to conduct the same business,
occupation or activity as the permittee at the location used by the occupant.
Such other person must apply and pay the fee for new business occupancy in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. The transfer of more than
50% ownership interest of a corporate permittee shall be deemed a prohibited
transfer under this section, thereby requiring the application and fee for new
business occupancy in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(1960 Code, § 7-25-18) (Ord. 7127, passed 4-22-2008; Am. Ord. 7858, passed 5-
18-2015; Am. Ord. 9368-2025, passed 3-17-2025) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.40 POSTING PERMIT.
   Every permit issued hereunder shall be posted by the occupant in a
conspicuous place.
(1960 Code, § 7-25-19) (Ord. 7127, passed 4-22-2008; Am. Ord. 7858, passed 5-
18-2015)
§ 110.41 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT; APPEALS.
   (A)   Any permit issued by the city other than liquor licenses may be
suspended as recommended by the Health, Housing, Building and Zoning Department
or designee if:
      (1)   The applicant fails to provide all the necessary information
required;
      (2)   The applicant provides false information;
      (3)   The applicant or the business is not in compliance with any
provision of this subchapter, any local ordinance, state or federal laws, rules
or regulations;
      (4)   The applicant has received two or more citations/penalties in
regard to substantiated complaints on the property;
      (5)   The applicant has a background or history of violating local
ordinance, state or federal law, rule or regulation;
      (6)   The public health, welfare or safety would be adversely affected by
granting the application;
      (7)   The permit was issued in error; and/or
      (8)   The applicant has outstanding fines, fees or monies due the city
and has failed to pay them.
(1960 Code, § 7-25-20)
   (B)   Any permit issued by the city other than liquor licenses may be
revoked as recommended by the Health, Housing, Building and Zoning Department
or designee if:
      (1)   The applicant fails to provide all the necessary information
required;
      (2)   The applicant provides false information;
      (3)   The applicant or the business is not in compliance with any
provision of this subchapter, any local ordinance, state or federal laws, rules
or regulations;
      (4)   The applicant has received two or more citations/penalties in
regard to substantiated complaints on the property;
      (5)   The applicant has a background or history of violating local
ordinance, state or federal law, rule or regulation;
      (6)   The public health, welfare or safety would be adversely affected by
granting the application;
      (7)   The permit was issued in error; and/or
      (8)   The applicant has outstanding fines, fees or monies due the city
and has failed to pay them.
(1960 Code, § 7-25-21)
   (C)   (1)   Appeal. Any applicant or permit holder may appeal a denial,
suspension or recommendation of revocation of a permit to the Mayor or
designee. The appeal shall be in writing and submitted to the Mayor or designee
within 15 days of denial, suspension or recommendations of revocation.
      (2)   Hearing appeal procedure. The Mayor or designee shall conduct the
hearing regarding all appeals of a denial, suspension or revocation
recommendation of any license. The Mayor or designee shall:
         (a)   Provide written notification to the applicant or permit holder
of the basis of the appeal;
         (b)   Afford the applicant or permit holder the opportunity to present
any evidence relevant to the appeal; and be represented by attorney; and/or
         (c)   Afford the city the opportunity to present any evidence relevant
to the appeal.
      (3)   Authority. The Mayor or designee may:
         (a)   Examine any books, papers, records or memorandum bearing upon
the business or activities of the permittee;
         (b)   Take testimony; and
         (c)   Make rulings as to the admissibility of evidence. The Mayor or
designee is not bound by the technical rules of evidence. No informality in the
proceeding or in the manner of taking testimony or receiving evidence shall
invalidate any decision ruling or recommendation.
      (4)   Burden. At any hearing held pursuant to this division (C), the
Mayor or designee’s decision to deny, suspend or recommend revocation of a
permit shall be presumed prima facie correct and the party contesting the
decision shall have the burden of overturning that finding.
(1960 Code, § 7-25-22)
(Ord. 7127, passed 4-22-2008; Ord. 7858, passed 5-18-2015)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this §§
110.25 through
110.41 shall be fined in an amount not less than $250 nor more than $1,000.
Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute
a separate offense and shall be punishable as such. The court shall also order
as part of the judgment that the defendant comply with all applicable codes and
ordinances relating to the property which is the subject of the violation.
(1960 Code, § 7-25-12) (Ord. 7127, passed 4-22-2008; Ord. 7858, passed 5-18-
2015)
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENTS AND RECREATION; RAFFLES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.001   Tattoo parlors
   
111.002   (Reserved)
   
111.003   Cable television
   
111.004   Video gaming
   
111.005   Circuses, carnivals, billiards and pool halls generally
Coin-Operated Amusement Devices
   
111.020   Definition
   
111.021   License required
   
111.022   License fee
   
111.023   Issuance of license
   
111.024   Minors
   
111.025   Devices to be kept in plain view; gambling devices prohibited
   
111.026   Inspection
   
111.027   Revocation of license
   
111.028   Location
Carnival, Circus and Rodeo Permits
   
111.040   Definitions
   
111.041   Games of chance
   
111.042   Length, frequency of operation
   
111.043   Required
   
111.044   Application
   
111.045   Games of skill
   
111.046   Application fee
   
111.047   Insurance requirements
   
111.048   Indemnity of city
   
111.049   Restoration of premises by permit holder; performance bond
   
111.050   City Council review and approval
   
111.051   Inspection accessibility
   
111.052   Carnival, circus and rodeo permit revocation
   
111.053   Carnival, circus or rodeo workers residing on premises
   
111.054   Vendor background checks
   
111.055   Street vendors during parade
Outdoor Events and Assemblies
   
111.060   Permit required; exceptions
   
111.061   Application; fee; insurance
   
111.062   Police investigation; report
   
111.063   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
111.064   Appeal procedure
   
111.065   Revocation; refund; notice
   
111.066   Periodic permits
Teen Clubs
   
111.070   Definitions
   
111.071   License required
   
111.072   Application procedures
   
111.073   Issuance or denial of license
   
111.074   License term; prorating fee
   
111.075   Operating rules and regulations
   
111.076   Obscenity in licensed establishments
   
111.077   Access by police officers
   
111.078   Checking age of patrons
   
111.079   License suspension or revocation
Raffles
   
111.090   License required
   
111.091   Limitations
   
111.092   Conduct of raffles
   
111.093   Raffle manager
   
111.094   Records
   
111.095   Raffle registration form
   
111.096   Queen of Hearts raffles - term and fees
 
   
111.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.001 TATTOO PARLORS.
   No person shall operate a tattoo parlor in the city without a license. There
shall only be four licenses issued in the city to tattoo parlors. The fee for
said license shall be $100. Any tattoo parlor in operation on the date that
this section took effect shall be entitled to a license even if it requires the
city to issue more than four licenses. Only two establishments requiring a
license under this section shall be located in the special service area, as
defined by the Special Service Areas Ordinance, Ord. 3325, at any given time.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the requirements, limitations and prohibitions
hereunder shall not apply to a salon regulated and licensed by the Illinois
Department of Public Health that performs microblading of semipermanent eyebrow
tattoos as its sole tattoo service.
(1960 Code, § 7-2-9) (Ord. 6355, passed 12-3-2001; Ord. 8235-2018, passed 8-20-
2018; Ord. 9168-2023, passed 6-20-2023) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.002 (RESERVED)
§ 111.003 CABLE TELEVISION.
   The 20-year cable television franchise, and its specific provisions, with
Continental Cablevision, Inc., its successors and assigns, is hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(1960 Code, §§ 10.01—10.24, 10-2-1—10-2-7, 10-3-1—10-3-4) (Ord. 3672, passed -
-; Ord. 7079, passed 1-22-2008; Ord. 7078, passed 1-23-2008)
§ 111.004 VIDEO GAMING.
   (A)   Any establishment within the city which is licensed to sell alcoholic
liquor and has obtained a license to operate a video gaming terminal from the
Illinois Gaming Board at such premises shall be required to apply for and
obtain a video gaming license sticker from the city for each video gaming
terminal located at such establishment. Any terminal operator of video gaming
terminal(s) shall be required to apply for and obtain an annual video gaming
terminal operator license for each establishment where such video gaming
terminal(s) is/are located. Permitted establishments, within the city, are
limited to the following "Restaurant/Dining Establishment," "Bar/Tavern," and
"Club/Lodge" as defined in §
162.006 of the zoning code.
   (B)   (1)   Any person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor may apply to the
Liquor Control Commissioner for an annual city video gaming license sticker on
an application form provided and pay a fee of $200 for each video gaming
terminal at the premises; provided, however, that such fee shall increase to
$250 for each video gaming terminal at the premises, effective April 1, 2019.
      (2)   Any terminal operator of video gaming terminal(s) shall apply to
the Liquor Control Commissioner for an annual video gaming terminal operator
license on an application form provided and pay a fee of $500 for each
establishment where such video gaming terminal(s) is/are located.
      (3)   Each video gaming license sticker and video gaming terminal
operator license issued by the city shall expire April 30, next, after date of
issue.
   (C)   All video gaming terminals at premises within the city shall display a
city video gaming sticker at all times.
   (D)   Video gaming may be played only during the hours of operation for the
consumption of alcohol at that establishment.
   (E)   No establishment shall be eligible for the issuance of video gaming
license sticker(s) unless it derives at least 50% of its gross monthly revenues
from food, beverage and/or other non-gaming sales. At any time during the video
gaming license sticker period or prior to the renewal of a video gaming license
sticker, the Mayor may order the licensee to produce his, her or its accounting
records to determine if the licensee remains eligible for a video gaming
sticker under this section. Ineligibility under this division (E), or the
failure of the licensee to produce said records to the Mayor upon request,
shall result in the automatic revocation of a video gaming license sticker.
   (F)   An establishment with a Class “C-1” or a Class “C-2" liquor license as
defined in §
121.06 of the Liquor Code shall not be eligible for the issuance of video
gaming license sticker(s).
(Ord. 8176-2018, passed 3-19-2018; Am. Ord. 9178-2023, passed 8-7-2023; Am.
Ord. 9179-2023, passed 8-7-2023; Am. Ord 9396-2025, passed 6-16-2025) Penalty,
see §
111.999
§ 111.005 CIRCUSES, CARNIVALS, BILLIARDS AND POOL HALLS GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person shall engage in the city in any business, occupation or
pursuit mentioned in this section without having first obtained a license
therefor as provided in
Ch. 110 of this code of ordinances and paying the license fee prescribed.
(1960 Code, § 7-4-1)
   (B)   Proprietors and managers of circuses and menageries and like shows
shall pay a license fee of $100 per day. All companies of equestrians,
acrobats, gymnasts and persons exhibiting any collection of wild animals are
included in the purview of this section.
(1960 Code, § 7-4-2)
   (C)   Every person operating a carnival shall pay a daily license fee of
$100 per day.
(1960 Code, § 7-4-3)
   (D)   (1)   Every person keeping any billiard table, pool table, bagatelle
or pigeon-hole table, or any other tables or implements for a similar purpose
open to the public, shall pay a license fee as follows: a fee of $50 per year
for each billiard or other table he or she may keep.
      (2)   Pool halls open to the public shall be closed for all purposes and
cease doing business at the hour of 12:00 midnight and shall remain so closed
until 5:00 a.m.
      (3)   Minors under the age of 16 years shall not frequent, loiter, go
into or remain in any pool hall unless upon some lawful errand and sent by the
direction and with the consent and knowledge of the parent, or unless
accompanied by the parent or there with the written consent of the parent. A
proprietor of a pool hall shall not permit a minor under the age of 16 years to
frequent, loiter or remain within the pool hall, unless accompanied by the
parent or unless on the premises with the written consent of the parent. It
shall be the duty of the proprietor to examine and ascertain the validity of
the written consent when exhibited by the minor.
      (4)   No establishment requiring a license under this section shall be
located in the special service area, as defined by the Special Services Area
Ord. 3325.
      (5)   No license shall be issued under this section within 1,000 feet of
a school.
(1960 Code, § 7-4-4)
   (E)   All operators of carnivals, circuses, sideshows, concessions and other
like amusements of any kind and nature, within the city, shall, in addition to
any license fee required, post a bond with the City Clerk in the amount of
$500, the sufficiency of which bond shall be determined by the City Clerk. The
condition of such bond shall be that if the operator of the carnival, circus,
sideshow, concession stand or other like amusement, shall restore the premises
occupied by such amusement, and remove all debris and waste material to the
satisfaction of the Health Officer of the city, upon the removal of such
amusement from the premises occupied by it, then the obligation of the bond
shall be null and void, otherwise in full force and effect. The bond shall be
either in cash or by a surety bond issued by a reputable insurance company.
(1960 Code, § 7-4-5)
(Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
111.999
Cross-reference:
   Carnival, Circus and Rodeo Permits, see §§
111.040 through
111.055
COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES
§ 111.020 DEFINITION.
   The term COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE, as used herein, means any amusement
machine or device operated by means of the insertion of currency, coin, token
or similar object for the purpose of amusement or skill and for the playing of
which a fee is charged. The term does not include vending machines in which are
not incorporated gaming or amusement features, nor does the term include any
coin-operated mechanical musical devices.
(1960 Code, § 7-6-1) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 111.021 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to install, operate
or maintain any such coin-operated amusement device without having first
obtained a license therefor. Applications shall be made to the City Clerk. Said
license shall be applied for and issued to the owner of such coin-operated
device, who shall be solely responsible for the payment of all applicable
license fees.
(1960 Code, § 7-6-2) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.022 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   The fee for such licenses shall be $50 per year for each amusement
device installed, operated or maintained within the corporate city limits.
   (B)   All licenses hereunder are due on May 1 and must be obtained on or
before June 30 of each year to avoid the penalty.
   (C)   Failure to timely obtain such a license shall result in the imposition
of a $50 penalty for each amusement device that is not timely licensed. Such
penalty shall be in addition to the prescribed license fee.
(1960 Code, § 7-6-3) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 111.023 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   No license shall be issued, except to a person of good character approved by
the City Council. Upon approval of the applicant and the payment of the license
fee, the City Clerk shall issue the license.
(1960 Code, § 7-6-4) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 111.024 MINORS.
   Minors under the age of 13 years shall not frequent, loiter, go into or
remain in any establishment licensed hereunder unless upon some lawful errand
and sent by the direction and with the consent of and knowledge of a parent, or
unless accompanied by a parent or there with a written consent of a parent. A
proprietor of an establishment licensed hereunder shall not permit a minor
under the age of 13 years to frequent, loiter or remain within such
establishment, unless accompanied by a parent or unless on the premises with
the written consent of the parent. It shall be the duty of the proprietor to
examine and ascertain the validity of the written consent when exhibited by the
minor.
(1960 Code, § 7-6-5) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 111.025 DEVICES TO BE KEPT IN PLAIN VIEW; GAMBLING DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   All such devices shall, at all times, be kept and placed in plain view
of any person or persons who may frequent or be in any place of business where
such devices are kept or used.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to authorize, permit or
license any gambling device of any nature whatsoever.
   (C)   A GAMBLING DEVICE is any clock, tape machine, slot machine, video slot
machine, video poker machine, video black jack machine or other machines or
device for the reception of money or other thing of value on chance or skill or
upon the action of which money or other things of value is staked, hazarded,
bet, won or lost; or any mechanism, furniture, fixture, equipment or other
device designed primarily for use in a gambling place. A GAMBLING DEVICE does
not include:
      (1)   A coin-in-the-slot operated mechanical device played for amusement
which rewards the player with the right to replay such mechanical device, which
device is so constructed or devised as to make such result of the operation
thereof depend in part upon the skill of the player and which returns to the
player thereof no money, property or right to receive money or property. Video
poker machines and video black jack machines are not excluded as a gambling
device under this division (C);
      (2)   Vending machines by which full and adequate return is made for the
money invested and in which there is no element of chance or hazard;
      (3)   A crane game. For the purposes of this division (C)(3), a CRANE
GAME is an amusement device involving skill, if it rewards the player
exclusively with merchandise contained within the amusement device proper and
limited to toys, novelties and prizes other than currency, each having a
wholesale value which is not more than seven times the cost charged to play the
amusement device once or $5, whichever is less;
      (4)   A redemption machine. For the purposes of this division (C)(4), a
REDEMPTION MACHINE is a single-player or multi-player amusement device
involving a game, the object of which is throwing, rolling, bowling, shooting,
placing or propelling a ball or other object into, upon or against a hole or
other target; provided that, all of the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The outcome of the game is predominantly determined by the skill
of the player;
         (b)   The award of the prize is based solely upon the player’s
achieving the object of the game or otherwise upon the player’s score;
         (c)   Only merchandise prizes are awarded;
         (d)   The average wholesale value of prizes awarded in lieu of tickets
or tokens for single play of device does not exceed the lesser of $5 or seven
times the cost charged for a single play of the device; and
         (e)   The redemption value of tickets, tokens and other
representations of value, which may be accumulated by players to redeem prizes
of greater value, does not exceed the amount of charged for a single play of
the device.
      (5)   Video gaming terminal games at a licensed establishment, licensed
truck stop establishment, licensed fraternal establishment or licensed
veterans’ establishment when conducted in accordance with the Video Gaming Act,
230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.
(1960 Code, § 7-6-6) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995; Ord. 5758, passed 7-21-1997;
Ord. 7648, passed 11-19-2012)
§ 111.026 INSPECTION.
   The Chief of Police shall inspect or cause the inspection of any place or
building in which any such device or devices are operated or set up for
operation and shall inspect, investigate and test such devices at least once a
year.
(1960 Code, § 7-6-7) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 111.027 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   In addition to any penalty imposed, the Mayor or Council may revoke such
license for any violation of this subchapter or of any ordinance pertaining to
the conduct of such business.
(1960 Code, § 7-6-8) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 111.028 LOCATION.
   No license shall be issued under this section within 1,000 feet of a school.
(1960 Code, § 7-6-9) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
CARNIVAL, CIRCUS AND RODEO PERMITS
§ 111.040 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CARNIVAL. Any aggregation of shows or riding devices, games of skill or
chance, or any combination of shows and riding devices, or any combination of
several enterprises, such as revolving wheels, merry-go-rounds, giant swings,
panoramas, musical and theatrical entertainments or riding devices, whether
carried on or engaged in or conducted in any field, park or in a building or
enclosure, and whether carried on, engaged in or conducted as one enterprise or
by several concessionaires, and whether one admission fee is charged for
admission to all such shows or entertainments, or separate fee for admission is
charged for each amusement.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief Law Enforcement Officer of the Department of
Police for the city, or his or her designee, responsible for enforcement,
inspection of permits and the investigation of complaints of violations with
the provisions of this subchapter to ensure compliance with this subchapter.
   CIRCUS. A show consisting of acrobats, trained animals, clowns or similar
forms of entertainment that is held in an arena, which may be open air or
enclosed in a tent or building.
   GAMES OF CHANCE. Any game, scheme or procedure whereby cash or one or more
prizes are distributed by chance among persons who have paid or promised
consideration for a chance to win, whether such scheme or procedure is called a
lottery, raffle, gift sale, game or some other name.
   GAMES OF SKILL. Any game or entertainment in which, for a given fee, an
individual is required to perform some act and, if successful in the
performance of the act, is awarded a prize in the form of a toy, trinket,
novelty or other merchandise of any kind.
   RODEO. A public competition or exhibition in which skills such as riding
broncos or roping calves are displayed, a cattle roundup or an enclosure for
keeping cattle that have been rounded up.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-21) (Ord. 7590, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 111.041 GAMES OF CHANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person as owner, operator, lessee, manager,
officer or agent or in any other capacity, to give, conduct, produce, present
or offer any entertainment defined as games of chance within the city unless
allowed by the state.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-22) (Ord. 7590, passed 4-2-2012) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.042 LENGTH, FREQUENCY OF OPERATION.
   No carnival, circus or rodeo, once approved, shall remain in operation in
any one location for a period exceeding five days, nor shall any carnival,
circus or rodeo, regardless of operator, locate on one particular site for more
than two times during any calendar year.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-23) (Ord. 7590, passed 4-2-2012) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.043 REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person as owner, operator, manager,
officer or agent, or in any other capacity, to give, conduct, produce, present
or offer any entertainments, exhibitions or performances, commonly known as a
carnival, circus or rodeo, within the city, except under the permit duly issued
in accordance with this subchapter.
   (B)   This section does not apply to federal, state, local, city, city
school district(s) or city parochial or private school sponsored or supported
carnival, circus or rodeo events.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-24) (Ord. 7590, passed 4-2-2012) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.044 APPLICATION.
   (A)   A permit to give, conduct, produce or present a carnival, circus or
rodeo shall be applied for by the owner or lessee, or the agent of either, of
the premises upon which the carnival, circus or rodeo is to take place.
   (B)   Each application shall be in writing on a printed form supplied by the
City Clerk and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The site or location of the proposed carnival, circus or rodeo and
the zoning classification thereof;
      (2)   A precise description of the kinds of entertainment, exhibitions or
performances to be offered and a diagram indicating wherein they are to be
located on the proposed site;
      (3)   The name of the owner, lessee, proprietor, operator or manager of
the carnival, circus or rodeo, and in addition thereto, the name of the owner,
lessee, proprietor, operator or manager of each entertainment, performance or
exhibition which collectively make up the carnival, circus or rodeo, and the
legal relationship of each to the applicant or the proprietor of the carnival,
circus or rodeo;
      (4)   The number and location of off-street parking spaces, as well as
toilet facilities to be used by patrons of the carnival, circus or rodeo, to be
indicated on the diagram referred to above;
      (5)   An indication of the dates the carnival, circus or rodeo is to be
in operation, and the hours during which the carnival, circus or rodeo is to be
open to the public. No carnival, circus or rodeo shall open before 10:00 a.m.
or operate beyond 8:00 p.m. in the city Sunday through Thursday or 10:00 a.m.
through 10:00 p.m. Friday and Saturday;
      (6)   Current USDA Class “C” licenses for any animals appearing at the
carnival, circus or rodeo;
      (7)   A certificate from the County Health Department for any food
concessions for the length of the event;
      (8)   All information required by the state’s Carnival and Amusement
Rides Safety Act (430 ILCS 85/2-1 et seq.); and
      (9)   Any other information that the City Council shall from time to time
determine necessary in making a determination as to whether the application
shall be granted.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-25) (Ord. 7590, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 111.045 GAMES OF SKILL.
   Games of skill shall be permitted under this subchapter; provided, however,
that, each such game to be offered must be described with specificity on the
application submitted.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-26) (Ord. 7590, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 111.046 APPLICATION FEE.
   Each application for a carnival or circus permit shall be accompanied by a
$500 non-refundable fee.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-27) (Ord. 7590, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 111.047 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to the approval of any application submitted under this subchapter,
the applicant shall submit to the city a certificate of insurance with the
owner, lessee, proprietor, operator or manager of the carnival, circus or
rodeo, as well as those persons acting in a similar capacity with respect to
each entertainment, performance or exhibition which collectively make up the
carnival, circus or rodeo, as named insureds, or such of them as required by
the City Council, and also naming the city as an additional insured in an
amount of not less than $1,000,000 covering public liability and property
damage, and with $3,000,000 aggregate, such policy insuring liability that may
arise from the operation or maintenance of the carnival, circus or rodeo or any
part thereof.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-28) (Ord. 7590, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 111.048 INDEMNITY OF CITY.
   The owner, lessee, operator or manager of a carnival, circus or rodeo shall,
in addition to the application provided under this subchapter, deliver to the
city an agreement in writing holding the city harmless from all liability
resulting from the operation of the carnival, circus or rodeo, and, further,
shall agree to indemnify the city from all liability resulting from any injury
to patrons, bystanders, passersby or any individual as a result of the
operation or maintenance of the carnival, circus or rodeo.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-29) (Ord. 7590, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 111.049 RESTORATION OF PREMISES BY PERMIT HOLDER; PERFORMANCE BOND.
   The applicant for a carnival, circus or rodeo permit shall restore the
premises to the same condition as the premises existed prior to the operation
of the carnival, circus or rodeo, including, but not limited to, removal of all
facilities and equipment related to the carnival, circus or rodeo, or any part
thereof, trash, garbage and miscellaneous debris. To ensure performance under
this subchapter, the applicant shall submit, prior to approval of any
application under this section, a performance bond in the amount of not less
than $5,000 guaranteeing the restoration of the premises as provided in this
subchapter.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-30) (Ord. 7590, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 111.050 CITY COUNCIL REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   Each application submitted under this subchapter, when completed,
shall be submitted to the City Clerk with the request that the application be
placed on the agenda of the City Council for its review.
   (B)   The City Council shall have the discretion to grant or deny any
application submitted under this subchapter, or any part thereof, on the basis
that the carnival, circus or rodeo or any particular entertainment offered as
part of the carnival, circus or rodeo is obscene, unsafe, illegal, a fraud on
the general public, or because its location would create traffic hazards or
noise or otherwise create a nuisance to adjoining property owners, or in some
way is detrimental to the health, welfare and safety of the citizens of the
city as reported to the City Council by the Chief of Police or his or her
designee.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-31) (Ord. 7590, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 111.051 INSPECTION ACCESSIBILITY.
   The Chief of Police, his or her designee, police officers and all other city
officials shall have free access to the grounds and all booths, shows and
concessions on such grounds at all times to ensure that the carnival, circus or
rodeo is in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter and all other
applicable city ordinances.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-32) (Ord. 7590, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 111.052 CARNIVAL, CIRCUS AND RODEO PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Mayor or Chief of Police may revoke a carnival amusement, circus or
rodeo permit at any time and demand immediate cessation of the carnival, circus
or rodeo based upon violations of this subchapter and the city code, on-
premises criminal acts by the carnival, circus or rodeo employees or when the
carnival, circus or rodeo presents an endangerment to public safety.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-33) (Ord. 7590, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 111.053 CARNIVAL, CIRCUS OR RODEO WORKERS RESIDING ON PREMISES.
   No employee, agent or other representative of the carnival, circus or rodeo
may live, sleep or otherwise reside on the premises of the carnival, circus or
rodeo. This restriction does not apply to overnight security personnel employed
by the carnival, circus or rodeo to secure the site and equipment.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-34) (Ord. 7590, passed 4-2-2012) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.054 VENDOR BACKGROUND CHECKS.
   Any vendor given a permit to conduct a carnival, circus or rodeo shall
submit a list of their employees along with birth dates and social security
numbers and a release form 14 days prior to the start of the event from said
employees to allow the city’s Police Department time to conduct a background,
history and sex offender registration of said employee. The Department shall
collect a $15 fee to cover the cost of conducting such checks.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-36) (Ord. 7590, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 111.055 STREET VENDORS DURING PARADE.
   It shall be unlawful for a mobile vendor to sell goods on a street where a
parade is being held during the parade unless said vendor has authorization
from the sponsor of the parade.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-37) (Ord. 6646, passed 5-3-2004; Ord. 7590, passed 4-2-2012)
Penalty, see §
111.999
OUTDOOR EVENTS AND ASSEMBLIES
§ 111.060 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person, partnership, corporation, organization, or group shall
promote, advertise, operate, conduct, or participate in any public or quasi-
public exhibition, demonstration, show, festival, parade, similar planned
event, or other outdoor assembly of persons, which is directly or indirectly
advertised or touted in the public press, radio, or television, or to which
large numbers of people are directly or indirectly invited to attend, unless
the person, partnership, corporation, organization, or group promoting,
advertising, operating, or conducting the same shall first have obtained a
permit from the City Clerk.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Funeral processions proceeding by vehicle under the most reasonable
route from the funeral home, church, or residence of the deceased to the place
of interment.
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Ord. 8023-2017, passed 3-20-2017) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.061 APPLICATION; FEE; INSURANCE.
   (A)   Written application for such a permit shall be made to the City Clerk
not less than 20 days nor more than 60 days prior to the event for which the
permit is requested. The applicant shall, on a form provided by the City Clerk,
submit the following information:
      (1)   The proposed location and the portion of the premises available for
such event.
      (2)   The reasonable projected number of persons who will attend such
outdoor event and the basis of such projection.
      (3)   A specific description of the nature of the assembly and the number
and, where available, the names of the exhibitors, demonstrators, or other
persons invited by or under contract with the applicant in connection with the
proposed event.
      (4)   Annexed to such application shall be the written permission of the
record owner or owners of the premises intended to be used or, if the same is
owned by this state, St. Clair County, or any other governmental unit or school
district, then the written permission of the officer or agent having authority
to permit the use of such premises as they are intended to be used.
   (B)   The applicant shall submit to the City Clerk with the application:
      (1)   A written commitment from a responsible insurance company, licensed
to do business in Illinois, to insure the applicant and the city as a co-
insured during such event, on a single limit policy, in the amount of
$1,000,000;
      (2)   Where it shall appear that the nature or size of the event or the
existence of other applicable insurance will not reasonably require the limits
hereinabove related, the Mayor may fix such lesser limits or accept such
evidence of other insurance or financial responsibility as will reasonably
afford protection to the participants and the public; or
      (3)   Where it shall appear that no insurance can be reasonably obtained
by the applicant, the Mayor shall require that all persons who desire to
participate in a proposed event duly execute and submit to the City Clerk no
later than 72 hours prior to the event, a release and hold-harmless agreement,
which shall read as follows:
"Hold-Harmless Indemnification Agreement"
   I,  (name)  of  (address) , City of               , County of
                      , State of                plan to participate in (name of
event, parade, demonstration, etc., scheduled to take place on  (date) , within
the municipal limits of the City of Belleville, Illinois.
   I hereby assume the risk for any personal injuries or property damages that
I may sustain in the pursuit of my activities while participating in the above-
specified event and do hereby hold harmless, remise, release, and forever
discharge, the City of Belleville, Illinois, its agents and employees, from any
and all actions, suits, damages, claims or judgments that may result from any
personal injuries or property damages I may sustain while participating in
(name of event)                    on  (date) .
   Further, I shall be liable and shall indemnify the City of Belleville,
Illinois and/or its agents for any injury or loss sustained by a third party,
which results from my conduct or participation in the above-specified event.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF I have executed this Release/Hold-Harmless Agreement at
(designate place of execution)  on                      , 20     .
                                                                                    
                                             (Signature of Participant)
      Subscribed and sworn to before me this         day of
                     , 20   .
                                                 
      Notary Public
(Ord. 8023-2017, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 111.062 POLICE INVESTIGATION; REPORT.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall, upon receipt of the application, refer the same
immediately to the Chief of Police in order that it might complete and submit
to the Mayor and City Clerk an investigative report and recommendations.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall cause to be investigated and shall report
upon the following:
      (1)   The background of the applicant and the factual accuracy of the
application.
      (2)   The extent to which the proposed outdoor assembly may adversely
affect the health, safety, or welfare of the persons attending the same or the
health, safety, or welfare of the persons in the community.
      (3)   Such other matters as may reasonably be required by the nature and
size of the proposed event or as may be directed by the Mayor.
   (C)   The report of the Chief of Police shall contain written
recommendations and the reasons therefor. Said report shall be filed with the
Mayor and City Clerk within ten days after receipt of the application for a
permit and shall be available for inspection by the applicant or his attorney.
(Ord. 8023-2017, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 111.063 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   The Mayor shall, upon consideration of the application and the report
submitted pursuant to §
111.062, together with any additional information, grant the permit for which
application is made, subject, however, to the following:
   (A)   Each permit shall contain such written conditions as are reasonable
and appropriate to the nature and size of the proposed event so as to insure
the public health, morals, safety, and welfare.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued unless a certified copy of the applicant's
liability insurance policy, or other required evidence of financial
responsibility, shall have been filed with the Mayor and City Clerk.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued unless the full permit fee required by §
111.061, shall have been paid to the City Clerk.
   (D)   The applicant-permittee shall further reimburse the city for any and
all costs for special police officers and like personnel as may reasonably be
required by the event; provided, however, that reimbursement under this section
for city-sponsored festivals shall be limited 80% of such costs, and long-time
traditional parades (i.e. school-picnic, Memorial Day, Shriner's Circus, Labor
Day and Santa Claus) shall not be required to pay any reimbursement.
   (E)   The Mayor may require of the applicant, prior to the issuance of a
permit, a cash deposit in an amount sufficient to insure prompt repair of
physical damage and collection of refuse when the event is to take place in a
public street, park, playground, or other public facility. Such a cash deposit
shall, as well, be sufficient to pay for such special police officers and like
personnel as may reasonably be required by the event and for which the City
Clerk shall bill the applicant-permittee.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to participate in any manner in any parade,
procession, march, or demonstration between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00
a.m.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person participating in any event
described in §
97.01 of this Code, to wear a mask, hood, or any other article of clothing
which conceals the identity of the participant.
(Ord. 8023-2017, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 111.064 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   Upon a denial by the Mayor of an application made pursuant to §
111.061, the applicant may appeal from the determination of the Mayor within
five days thereafter to the City Council by filing a written notice of appeal
for hearing by the City Council at its next meeting. Upon such appeal, the City
Council may reverse, affirm, or modify in any regard the determination made by
the Mayor by majority vote.
(Ord. 8023-2017, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 111.065 REVOCATION; REFUND; NOTICE.
   (A)   A permit may be revoked by the Mayor upon 24 hours' notice to the
applicant-permittee where it appears that:
      (1)   The application is materially false or purposely misleading and
such fact was not earlier discovered despite due diligence prior to such time.
      (2)   New or substantially changed conditions have arisen so as to
imperil or materially endanger the public health, morals, safety, or welfare.
If a permit is revoked for the reason denominated in this division (A)(2), the
applicant's permit fee shall be returned to him.
   (B)   A permit may be revoked at any time after 24 hours prior to the event
and at any time during such event where it appears that the public health,
morals, safety, or welfare are being endangered, where it appears that numerous
acts of criminality, disorderly conduct, or juvenile delinquency are occurring,
or where nuisances substantially impairing the comfort or welfare of the
community are occurring. Where such circumstances appear, a permit shall be
revoked upon request of the Chief of Police by the Mayor, or in the absence of
the foregoing, by the Chief of Police. In the event of revocation under this
division, the permit fee and the cash deposit, to the extent the latter is
billed, used, or required, shall not be returned to the applicant-permittee.
   (C)   In the event that a permit is revoked pursuant to division (A) of this
section, oral notice by the Mayor to the applicant-permittee shall be
determined sufficient notice to the applicant-permittee and his agents,
servants, employees, and contractees that the permit has been revoked. In the
event that a permit is revoked pursuant to division (B) of this section, oral
notice, audible to any individual and oral notice reasonably audible to any
person within normal hearing range of any electronic device, given by an
authorized official or police officer, shall be deemed sufficient notice that
the permit has been revoked.
(Ord. 8023-2017, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 111.066 PERIODIC PERMITS.
   (A)   Any applicant who shall have obtained a permit for an event which is
commonly held at annual or other periodic intervals shall, once having obtained
such permit, be entitled to renew the same, without application fee, upon the
same conditions as are contained in the original permit by notifying the City
Clerk, in writing, not less than 20 days nor more than 60 days prior to the
event for which the permit is requested, and submitting with such notification,
evidence of financial responsibility and the fulfillment of such other
conditions as may theretofore have been required.
   (B)   The application for renewal shall be granted by the Mayor unless a
bona fide complaint concerning the past operation of such event by the
applicant or new or changed circumstances or a different mode of operation by
the applicant have been brought to the attention of the Mayor. Where such
matters are brought to the attention of the Mayor, he shall hold a hearing upon
notice to the applicant and may thereafter grant the application for renewal,
impose new or different conditions upon the applicant, or deny the application,
as the evidence adduced at the hearing shall warrant.
(Ord. 8023-2017, passed 3-20-2017)
TEEN CLUBS
§ 111.070 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. An individual, partnership or corporation, including all partners
in a partnership and all stockholders in a corporation.
   CITY. City of Belleville.
   CLUB PREMISES. Any place where a teen club is operated or maintained,
including all highways, bathrooms, parking areas and other adjacent portions of
the premises which are accessible to the public during operating hours.
   MANAGER. Any employee who is in charge and responsible for the conduct of
the business activity at any given time.
   PERSON. One or more natural persons, corporations, partnerships,
associations or other entities capable of having an action of law brought
against such entity.
   TEEN CLUB.
      (1)   Commercial premises which are open to the public, the primary
function of which is to offer patrons an opportunity to engage in social
activities such as dancing, or the enjoyment of live or prerecorded music, or
the enjoyment of entertainment provided by dancers or other performers. As an
incidental function, a TEEN CLUB may sell and serve food and beverages
(excluding alcoholic beverages) to its patrons.
      (2)   The term TEEN CLUB does not include the following: premises which
serve alcoholic beverages as defined by state and local laws; theaters where
the patrons sit in parallel rows of fixed seats; full-service restaurants where
the only entertainment consists of background music which is incidental to the
primary function of serving food; outdoor performances; a banquet, party or
celebration conducted for invited guests which is not open to the public;
dances, events or teen club sponsored and operated by a governmental entity, an
educational institution or non-profit religious, charitable, benevolent or
fraternal organization.
   TYPE A TEEN CLUB. A teen club which restricts its admission to persons age
14 to 17 years to a person 18 years of age if such person is currently enrolled
in high school and presents a valid identification card issued by the high
school indicating that such person is currently enrolled in that school.
   TYPE B TEEN CLUB. A teen club which restricts its admission to persons 18
years of age and over.
(1960 Code, § 7-23-1)
§ 111.071 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to own, operate, manage or maintain a teen
club in the city without first obtaining a teen club license from the city.
(1960 Code, § 7-23-1) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.072 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Initial and renewal applications for a teen club license shall be made
to the Mayor in writing; signed by the applicant, if an individual, or by a
duly authorized agent thereof, if a corporation, verified by oath or affidavit;
shall be accompanied with a non-refundable application fee of $150 for the
initial application plus the current rate by the State Police for processing
ISP and FBI fingerprint cards for initial and all renewal applications (current
rate - $38 each) for each individual, partner or corporation stockholder, and
manager; and shall contain the following information and statements:
      (1)   The name, date of birth, address (current and past five years),
telephone number, place of birth, physical description, drivers license number,
Social Security number and fingerprints of the individual applicant(s),
partners in a partnership or stockholder(s) in a corporation. In the case of a
co-partnership, the persons entitled to share in the profits thereof, and in
the case of a corporation, the date of incorporation, the objects for which it
was organized, the names and addresses (current and past five years) of the
officers and directors, and if a majority in interest of the stock of such
corporation is owned by one person or his or her nominees, the name and address
(current and past five years) of such person;
      (2)   The length of time that said applicant has been in this business or
a similar related business and in the case of a corporation, the date on which
it was incorporated;
      (3)   A statement whether applicant has made similar application for a
similar related business and in the case of a corporation, the date on which it
was incorporated;
      (4)   A resume of applicant’s management history (i.e., business
experience and employment history);
      (5)   The name, address and telephone number of three business references
and three personal references;
      (6)   A description of the business operation and marketing plan which
shall include the proposed theme of the establishment;
      (7)   Detailed plans for preventing persons under or over the age
required for a Type A or B license from entering the premises, including
security training of employees, identification checking system, and any other
methods that will be utilized;
      (8)   The name, address and telephone number of person(s) who will be
employed and serve as a manager for the business and a statement that the same
information will be reported to the Mayor prior to any new such employee(s)
hired during the license period;
      (9)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license (include a drawing of premises with
measurements of floor space and layout);
      (10)   A statement that the applicant does beneficially own the premises
for which a license is to be issued or has a lease for the entire period of the
license. If the location is to be leased, a copy of the lease shall be provided
and/or the name, address and telephone number of the current property owner.
Each applicant must indicate the existing business, if any, at the proposed
location;
      (11)   A statement delineating the criminal history, if any, of the
applicant and manager(s) including all arrests and guilty dispositions for all
criminal offenses;
      (12)   A statement:
         (a)   If a co-partnership, all members of the co-partnership and
manager(s) shall be qualified to obtain a license; and
         (b)   If a corporation, any officer, manager or director thereof, or
any stockholder is eligible to receive a license pursuant to this section of
the municipal code.
      (13)   Any additional information the applicant deems pertinent, or is
subsequently requested by the city, to review in determining whether the
applicant should be granted a license;
      (14)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of
the state or any ordinance of the city in the conduct of his or her place of
business;
      (15)   A statement that the applicant will testify under oath to all
competent, relevant and material questions propounded to him or her in any
hearing conducted by the Mayor, either before or after the issuance of a
license to him or her and that his or her failure to so testify shall be
sufficient reason for the refusal to issue any such license to him or her or
for the suspension or revocation of any license which has been issued to him or
her.
   (B)   In addition to the application procedures referred to in division (A)
above, an applicant for a teen club license shall provide the following:
      (1)   A written statement setting forth all measures proposed to ensure
that adequate traffic control, crowd protection and security, both inside and
outside the premises, will be maintained; and that the ages of patrons admitted
to the teen club will be monitored;
      (2)   A statement indicating whether the teen club will be operated as a
Type A teen club or a Type B teen club and a statement of the proposed schedule
of operating hours and days. The club premises may not be used for both a Type
A and Type B teen club;
      (3)   A statement of whether the applicant, or the applicant’s officers,
directors, partners or any other person involved in the operation or management
of the teen club has pled, been found guilty or has pending charges for any
crimes including, but not limited to, firearms, gambling, racketeering,
alcohol, controlled substances, sexual offenses, prostitution, assault, battery
or contributing to the delinquency of a minor; and
      (4)   The annual fee for such license shall be $250.
(1960 Code, § 7-23-1)
§ 111.073 ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   After receiving a complete application for a teen club license, the city
shall follow the following procedures.
   (A)   The Mayor shall forward copies of the application to appropriate city
officials for their comments regarding compliance with regulations under their
jurisdiction. The Mayor shall consider all materials and comments submitted and
shall issue or deny the license.
   (B)   A teen club license may be denied by the Mayor for any or more of the
following reasons:
      (1)   The applicant is in violation of any of the requirements to obtain
a license, listed in §
111.072(A) of this chapter;
      (2)   The applicant and/or premises to be licensed have any outstanding
past due debts, fines or fees to the city or any on-going code violations;
      (3)   If the applicant and/or business premises do not comply with all
applicable city ordinances and state laws;
      (4)   If the application is incomplete or if it contains any material
misrepresentation;
      (5)   If the application does not show adequate measures for:
         (a)   The protection and security, both inside and outside the
premises; or
         (b)   The monitoring of the ages of patrons and citizens admitted to
the teen club.
      (6)   If the applicant is not of good character and reputation; and/or
      (7)   If any part of the premises has a license to sell alcoholic liquor.
   (C)   (1)   If the Mayor denies a license, written notice stating the
reasons for the denial shall be sent to the applicant. The applicant shall have
a period of ten working days after the date of license denial to appeal the
denial.
      (2)   Such appeal must be submitted to the Mayor, in writing and must set
forth the basis for the appeal.
      (3)   The Mayor shall hold a meeting and decide the appeal within 30 days
of the hearing.
(1960 Code, § 7-23-1)
§ 111.074 LICENSE TERM; PRORATING FEE.
   (A)   Each teen club license shall terminate on April 30 following its
issuance.
   (B)   The license fee shall be prorated from the date of issue to April 30.
   (C)   No refund shall be made to any license discontinuing business during
the license year.
(1960 Code, § 7-23-1)
§ 111.075 OPERATING RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate the following
provisions.
   (B)   Such provisions shall apply to all teen clubs in the city.
      (1)   Persons of the following ages shall not be permitted to enter or
remain on the premises of a Type A teen club:
         (a)   Under the age of 14 years unless accompanied by a parent or
legal guardian; and/or
         (b)   Eighteen years of age or older except for bona fide employees or
entertainers hired by the licensee to work in the club, or a parent of a person
under 14 years of age present in the club, or a person 18 years of age
currently enrolled in a high school who presents a valid identification from
such high school showing such person to be enrolled in such high school and at
least one additional piece of identification showing the picture of such
individual containing the date of birth of such person and issued by an
officer, agent or department of the state or other state.
      (2)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be permitted to enter or
remain on the premises of a Type B teen club unless accompanied by a parent or
legal guardian, except for entertainers hired by the licensee to work in a
club.
      (3)   Type A teen clubs shall be operated only between the following
hours:
         (a)   6:00 p.m. Monday through 10:00 p.m. Monday;
         (b)   6:00 p.m. Tuesday through 10:00 p.m. Tuesday;
         (c)   6:00 p.m. Wednesday through 10:00 p.m. Wednesday;
         (d)   6:00 p.m. Thursday through 10:00 p.m. Thursday;
         (e)   6:00 p.m. Friday through 11:00 p.m. Friday;
         (f)   6:00 p.m. Saturday through 11:00 p.m. Saturday; and
         (g)   6:00 p.m. Sunday through 10:00 p.m. Sunday.
      (4)   Type B teen clubs shall be operated only between the following
hours:
         (a)   6:00 p.m. Monday through 1:00 a.m. Tuesday;
         (b)   6:00 p.m. Tuesday through 1:00 a.m. Wednesday;
         (c)   6:00 p.m. Wednesday through 1:00 a.m. Thursday;
         (d)   6:00 p.m. Thursday through 1:00 a.m. Friday;
         (e)   6:00 p.m. Friday through 1:00 a.m. Saturday;
         (f)   6:00 p.m. Saturday through 1:00 a.m. Sunday; and
         (g)   6:00 p.m. Sunday through 1:00 a.m. Monday.
      (5)   It shall be the obligation of the licensee to employ qualified
supervisory personnel at a ratio of one such person for every 25 patrons, who
will be present on club premises during all operating hours to maintain peace
and order and to ensure compliance with all applicable laws of the state and
the city.
      (6)   The licensee and its agents shall not permit or allow alcoholic
beverages or controlled substances to be consumed or be present on the teen
club premises.
      (7)   It shall be the obligation of the licensee and/or manager to
remove, or have removed, from the club premises any person who is, or appears
to be, under the influence of, or affected by the use of, alcohol or drugs, or
whose conduct poses a physical danger to the safety of others present.
      (8)   It shall be the obligation of the licensee to provide proper and
adequate illumination of all portions of the club premises which are available
for public use. Such illumination shall not be less than ten foot-candles at
floor level at all times when the premises are open to the public or when any
member of the public is permitted to enter and remain on the premises.
      (9)   It shall be the obligation of the licensee to prevent loitering,
and/or the creation of public nuisances or disturbances of the peace by any
patrons of the teen club on club premises or in the immediate vicinity.
Loitering shall not include walking between the club building and a patron’s
vehicle, nor shall it include the act of waiting in line to gain admission to
the club.
      (10)   It shall be the obligation of the licensee to clean up all litter
resulting from club operations. The cleanup shall occur within eight hours
after the end of each day’s operation.
      (11)   All teen clubs shall have an occupancy limit established by
providing a minimum of ten square feet of space per person. All teen clubs
shall provide seating for 50% of the maximum occupancy. No license shall be
issued until the applicant has complied with this provision.
      (12)   All teen club license holders shall enter an agreement with the
city’s Police Department to act as their agent for the purposes of enforcing
criminal trespass laws.
(1960 Code, § 7-23-1) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.076 OBSCENITY IN LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   No licensee or his or her agent or employee shall allow or permit any
person to perform acts of, or acts which simulate:
      (1)   Sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral
copulation, flagellation or any sexual acts which are prohibited by law;
      (2)   The actual or simulated touching, caressing or fondling of the
breast, buttocks, anus or genitals;
      (3)   The actual or simulated displaying of the pubic hair, anus, vulva
or genitals;
      (4)   The actual or simulated displaying of the breast so as to expose
the nipple of the female breast; and/or
      (5)   The displaying of films or pictures depicting acts, a live
performance of which is prohibited by divisions (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(4) above.
   (B)   No licensee or her or his agent or employee shall allow or permit any
person to remain in or upon the licensed premises who exposes in public view
any portion of his or her genitals or anus or, in the case of females, the
breast so as to expose the nipple.
(1960 Code, § 7-23-1) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.077 ACCESS BY POLICE OFFICERS.
   All police officers of the city shall have free access to all teen clubs for
the purpose of inspection and to enforce compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter at all times that the premises are open to the patrons.
(1960 Code, § 7-23-1)
§ 111.078 CHECKING AGE OF PATRONS.
   (A)   It is the responsibility of the licensee to require picture
identification or a reasonable equivalent showing the age of each person
admitted to a teen club. It is unlawful for any person to knowingly allow a
person to enter or remain on the premises of a teen club in violation of the
age restrictions of this subchapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to misrepresent his or her age for the
purpose of obtaining admission to, or remaining at, a teen club in violation of
the provisions of this subchapter.
(1960 Code, § 7-23-1) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.079 LICENSE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   A teen club license may be suspended or revoked by the Mayor, after
due process notice and hearing, when the licensee, or any manager, officer,
director, agent or employee of the licensee has caused or permitted any of the
following:
      (1)   Failure to keep the building structure or equipment of the licensed
premises in compliance with the applicable health, building, fire or safety
laws, regulations or ordinances in a way which relates to or affects public
health or safety on the teen club premises;
      (2)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this subchapter;
      (3)   Failure of the licensee or any manager, agent or employee to
cooperate fully with police officers who respond to the premises;
      (4)   Making a material false statement or misrepresentation, or failure
to disclose any material information to the city, in connection with any
application for the teen club license or any license renewal;
      (5)   Whenever, the licensee or any manager, officer, director, agent or
employee of the licensee knowingly permits conduct on the licensed premises
that violates any federal, state or city criminal or penal statute, law or
ordinance; and
      (6)   Whenever the operation of the teen club becomes the cause of a
significant increase in activities on the premises or in the immediate vicinity
requiring police response.
   (B)   The hearing shall be public and all interested persons shall be
afforded an opportunity to be heard.
   (C)   If the Mayor determines a violation has occurred, he or she may:
      (1)   Fine the licensee in an amount not to exceed $1,000 per violation;
      (2)   Impose a probationary period and impose certain conditions which
must be observed;
      (3)   Suspend the license for a period of time;
      (4)   Any other relief he or she deems just; and/or
      (5)   Revoke the license.
   (D)   Failure to pay any fine ordered by the Mayor shall be grounds for
revocation of the license.
(1960 Code, § 7-23-1)
RAFFLES
§ 111.090 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No organization shall operate a raffle in the city without first obtaining a
license and complying with this subchapter. An organization must be one of the
following: religious; charitable; labor; fraternal; educational; or veterans.
The organization must have been in existence for five years.
(1960 Code, § 7-17-1) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.091 LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded in a single raffle
shall not exceed $50,000.
   (B)   Retail value of each prize in a single raffle shall not exceed
$30,000.
   (C)   Maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued or
sold shall not exceed $25.
   (D)   Maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or sold
shall not exceed 90 days.
   (E)   The values, price, and days set forth in divisions (A) through (D) of
this section may be increased upon a showing of good cause by the organization
applying for a raffle license and upon the approval of both the City Clerk and
the Mayor; however, in no event may the maximum number of days in division (D)
of this section exceed one year.
(1960 Code, § 7-17-1) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995; Ord. 8067-2017, passed 7-3-
2017; Ord. 8119-2017, passed 11-6-2017) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.092 CONDUCT OF RAFFLES.
   (A)   Entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to the
lawful purposes of the organization.
   (B)   No person, except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization,
may participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
   (C)   No person may receive any payment or profit for participating in the
management of the raffle.
   (D)   An organization may rent a premises on which to determine the winning
chance or chances in a raffle only from another organization which is also
licensed to have raffles.
(1960 Code, § 7-17-1) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.093 RAFFLE MANAGER.
   All operation of and the conduct of raffles within the city shall be under
the supervision of a single raffles manager designated by the organization. The
manager shall obtain a fidelity bond in the sum of $1,000 in favor of the
organization. A copy of this bond must be filed with the office of the City
Clerk.
(1960 Code, § 7-17-1) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 111.094 RECORDS.
   (A)   Each organization shall keep records of its gross receipts, expenses
and net proceeds for each single occasion at which winning chances are
determined. All deductions from gross receipts for each single occasion shall
be documented with receipts or other records indicating the amount, a
description of the purchased item or service or other reason for the deduction.
The distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee, purpose, amount
and date of payment.
   (B)   Each organization shall have separate records of each raffle
conducted. The person who accounts for gross receipts, expenses and net
proceeds from the operation of raffles on behalf of such organization shall not
be the same person who accounts for other revenues of the organization.
   (C)   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall promptly report to
its membership, its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from raffles and
the distribution of the net proceeds itemized. Such reports shall be promptly
submitted to the City Clerk’s office upon request.
   (D)   Any person who has been convicted of a felony; any person who is or
has been a professional gambler or gambling promoter; any person who is not of
good moral character; are ineligible for a license.
   (E)   A filing fee of $5 per raffle must be paid when applying for the
raffle license.
(1960 Code, § 7-17-1) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995; Ord. 7297, passed 8-17-2009;
Ord. 8235-2018, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 111.095 RAFFLE REGISTRATION FORM.
   City of Belleville Raffle License Application
   City of Belleville Raffle License Application
   (Please submit application with the $5 fee to the City Clerk)
Organization Name:
_________________________________________________________________________________
Address:
__________________________________________________________________________________________
Phone: ___________________________________ E-Mail: _________________________________
Type of Organization (check one):
___________________ Religious   ___________________ Charitable   ___________________ Labor
___________________ Veterans    ___________________ Fraternal    ___________________
Educational
___________________ Non-Profit Business
How long has this Organization been in existence?
_______________________________________________________
Place/Date of Incorporation: ___________________/___________________
(Attach Certificate of Good Standing and Articles of Incorporation.)
Date(s) of Raffle Ticket Sales: ___________________ to ___________________ (Maximum of 90
days)
Location(s) of Ticket Sales:
__________________________________________________________________________
Location for Determining Winners:
___________________________________________________________________
Manner for Determining Winners:
___________________________________________________________________
Date(s) for Determining Winners:
___________________________________________________________________
Total Retail Value of All Prizes Awarded:
$___________________________________________________________
(Maximum of $25,000)
Maximum Retail Value of Each Prize Awarded:
$______________________________________________________
(Maximum of $15,000)
Maximum Price Charged for Each Chance Sold:
$______________________________________________________
(Maximum of $25)
 
FOR CITY CLERK’S OFFICE USE ONLY
______________ Approved   ______________ Denied   Date: ________________    License #
________________
Organization Raffle Manager Name:
_________________________________________________________________
Address:
________________________________________________________________________________________
Phone: ________________________________      E-Mail: __________________________________
Raffle Manager Bond (check one):
      A fidelity bond in favor of the Organization, in the amount of $1,000 must be
submitted with this Application.
   or
      This bond is waived because the members of the Organization have requested the
waiver of the fidelity bond by unanimous vote.
The undersigned hereby certify and attest as follows:
   •   The information contained in this Application is true and correct;
   •   The entire net proceeds of the Raffle will be exclusively devoted to the lawful
purposes of the Organization;
   •   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization will participate
in the management or operation of the Raffle;
   •   No person will receive any payment or profit for participating in the management of
the Raffle;
   •   The Organization will only rent a premises on which to determine the winning chance
or chances in a raffle from another organization which is also licensed to have raffles;
   •   The Organization shall keep records of its gross receipts, expenses and net
proceeds for each single occasion at which winning chances are determined, and all
deductions from gross receipts for each single occasion shall be documented with receipts
or other records indicating the amount, a description of the purchased item or service or
other reason for the deduction;
   •   The distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee, purpose, amount and
date of payment;
   •   The Organization shall have separate records of each raffle conducted, and the
person who accounts for gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from the operation of
raffles on behalf of the Organization shall not be the same person who accounts for other
revenues of the Organization;
   •   The Organization licensed to conduct raffles shall report monthly to its
membership, and to the City, its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from raffles,
and the distribution of the net proceeds itemized, and such report shall be submitted to
the City Clerk’s office on the first of each month;
   •   The officers, operators, manager and workers of the Organization and the Raffle
have not been convicted of a felony, are not professional gamblers or gambling promoters,
are of good moral character;
   •   The aforementioned Raffle Manager shall be responsible for the conduct of the
Raffle in accordance with Chapter 111of the Revised Code of Ordinances and the Illinois
Raffles and Poker Runs Act (230 ILCS 15/1 et seq.).
ORGANIZATION PRESIDING OFFICER         ORGANIZATION SECRETARY
Name: ______________________________         Name: ________________________________
Signature:____________________________         Signature: _____________________________
STATE OF ILLINOIS       )
                ) SS
COUNTY OF ST. CLAIR )
I, ________________________, a Notary Public for the State and County aforesaid, do hereby
certify that ______________________________________ and
______________________________________, personally known to me to be the same persons
whose names are subscribed to the foregoing instrument, appeared before me this day in
person and acknowledged that he/she signed and delivered the same instrument as the free
and voluntary act for the uses and purposes therein set forth.
Given under my hand and notarial seal this _________________ day of _________________,
________.
                                    _______________________________________
                                    Notary Public
My Commission Expires: ________________________________
 
(1960 Code, § 7-17-1) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995; Ord. 7887, passed 8-17-2015)
§ 111.096 QUEEN OF HEARTS RAFFLES - TERM AND FEES.
   (A)   The following terms and fees shall govern and control raffles which
are designated as "Queen of Hearts" raffles to the extent of conflict with the
provisions of §§
111.090 through
111.095 of this chapter; all other provisions of §§
111.090 through
111.095 of this chapter which do not conflict with the following terms and fees
also apply to "Queen of Hearts" raffles.
   (B)   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by a
licensee in a single raffle shall not exceed $500,000.
   (C)   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded by a licensee in a
single raffle shall not exceed $500,000.
   (D)   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued
or sold shall not exceed $25.
   (E)   The maximum number of weeks during which chances may be issued or sold
shall not exceed 54 weeks.
   (F)   Licenses issued hereunder shall be valid for one Queen of Hearts
raffle and may be suspended or revoked for any violation of this section.
   (G)   Raffle chances shall be sold only within the boundaries of the city.
   (H)   Licenses to conduct a "Queen of Hearts" raffle shall be issued to bona
fide religious, charitable, labor, fraternal, educational, or veterans'
organizations that operate without profit to their members, and which have been
in existence continuously for a period of five years immediately before making
application for a license and which have had during that entire five year
period a bona fide membership engaged in carrying out their objectives.
   (I)   The above-mentioned types of organizations shall be defined pursuant
to the Illinois Raffles and Poker Runs Act (230 ILCS 15/1 et seq.), and
incorporated herein.
   (J)   No person, or organization shall be issued more than one license in a
period of one week.
   (K)   The manager of a Queen of Hearts raffle game shall give a fidelity
bond in the sum of $25,000 in favor of the organization conditioned upon his
honesty in the performance of his duties. The Mayor or his designated
representative is authorized to waive requirement for bond by including a
waiver provision in the license issued, provided that the license containing
such waiver provision shall be granted only by unanimous vote of the members of
the licensed organization. The terms of the bond shall provide that notice
shall be given in writing to the licensing authority not less than 30 days
prior to its cancellation.
   (L)   Any license issued hereunder shall be non-transferable.
   (M)   Fees. The fee for a "Queen of Hearts" raffle license issued under this
chapter shall be $25 each time a license is issued. The license issued pursuant
to this section for a "Queen of Hearts” raffle shall be valid for one raffle
until the "Queen of Hearts" is selected and shall be conducted during a
specified period not to exceed 54 weeks and may be suspended or revoked for any
violation of this section.
   (N)   All operation of and the conduct of Queen of Hearts raffles shall be
under the supervision of a single manager designated by the organization.
(Ord. 8078-2017, passed 8-7-2017) Penalty, see §
111.999
§ 111.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A person violating any provision of §
111.004 of this chapter is subject to prosecution and shall be fined not less
than $250, nor more than $500, for each offense, and a separate and distinct
offense shall be considered as having been committed for each and every day on
which any person shall be found guilty of any such violation.
(1960 Code, § 7-27-2)
   (C)   The penalty for any violation of the provisions of §§
111.040 through
111.055 of this chapter, excluding §
111.052 of this chapter, shall result in a fine of $500. The penalty for any
subsequent violation of any provisions of §§
111.040 through
111.055 of this chapter, excluding §
111.052 of this chapter, shall result in a fine of $1,000. Any person who
knowingly fails to comply with a “cessation demand” under §
111.052 of this chapter issued by the Mayor or Chief of Police shall result in
a fine of $1,000.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-35)
   (D)   (1)   Injunction. In addition to any other relief provided herein, the
City Attorney may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for an injunction
to prohibit the continuation of any violation of §§
111.070 through
111.079 of this chapter. The application for relief may include seeking a
temporary restraining order, temporary injunction and permanent injunction.
      (2)   Penalty. Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of
§§
111.070 through
111.079 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than $500
for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(1960 Code, § 7-23-1)
(Ord. 7590, passed 4-2-2012; Ord. 7663, passed 1-7-2013)
CHAPTER 112: EMERGENCY SERVICES; HOMELESS SHELTERS
Section
Fire Inspections
   
112.01   Fee established
   
112.02   Fee schedule
   
112.03   Fees billed by City Clerk
Ambulances
   
112.15   Definitions
   
112.16   License required
   
112.17   Application for ambulance license
   
112.18   License fee
   
112.19   Issuance of license
   
112.20   Standards for ambulances
   
112.21   EMT/PHRN standards
   
112.22   Service; operation
   
112.23   Licensee insurance
   
112.24   Revocation and suspension of license
   
112.25   Cooperation
   
112.26   Rules and regulations; authority
Homeless Shelters
   
112.40   Declaration of policy
   
112.41   Administration
   
112.42   Definitions
   
112.43   License required
   
112.44   Application for license
   
112.45   Inspection
   
112.46   Standards for issuance of license
   
112.47   License term and condition
   
112.48   Additional operating requirements
   
112.49   Additional restrictions and prohibitions
   
112.50   Compliance with local codes
   
112.51   Violations
   
112.52   License revocation
   
112.53   Refusal, renewal and revocation hearing; appeals
   
112.54   Summary action
 
   
112.99   Penalty
FIRE INSPECTIONS
§ 112.01 FEE ESTABLISHED.
   The city is hereby authorized to charge an annual fee for fire inspections
which are conducted by the city.
(1960 Code, § 7-20-1)
§ 112.02 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The following fee schedule shall be implemented for said fire inspection:
 
0,000 - 2,500 square feet  $25
2,501 - 5,000 square feet  $50
5,001 - 10,000 square feet $100
10,001 - and over          $150
 
(1960 Code, § 7-20-2)
§ 112.03 FEES BILLED BY CITY CLERK.
   (A)   Bills for the fire inspection fees herein established shall be made
out by the City Clerk or his or her designee and shall be due and payable on or
before the thirtieth day from the day of the bill. If the fee for the fire
inspection is not paid within 30 days after the date of any bill rendered
therefor, a delayed payment charge in the amount of 10% of the bill rendered
shall be imposed and collected. If a bill is not paid by a tenant within 45
days after the date of the bill, then the City Clerk shall bill the land owner
directly and he or she shall be responsible for paying said bill including any
delayed payment charges within 30 days shall result in a notice of lien on the
cost and expense incurred by the city, being recorded in the office of the
Recorder of Deeds of the county. Representatives from the Fire Department are
expressly prohibited from collecting any fees. All fees shall be payable at the
office of the City Treasurer and shall be collected by the City Treasurer.
   (B)   If a building encompasses more than one separate business under the
same roof, each business shall be billed separately and the city shall conduct
the necessary fire inspections for that building. A business with multiple
locations shall be billed separately for each location.
   (C)   A business with one or more auxiliary buildings that serve in a
subsidiary capacity to the main facility and are located within close proximity
to the principal business building shall be billed one fee for the combined
square footage of the buildings inspected at that same general location.
   (D)   Each time a new business opens in the same location, the building
shall be inspected by the city and a new fee shall be due and owing to the city
for said inspection.
   (E)   If the property inspected is tax exempt real estate, no fire
inspection fee will be charged.
   (F)   The city reserves the right to suspend all business in the location of
the building, upon due notice to the tenant and/or landowner if inspection fees
are not paid within 90 days of said fire inspection.
(1960 Code, § 7-20-3) (Ord. 5386, passed 3-6-1995)
AMBULANCES
§ 112.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Emergency Medical Services (EMS) Systems Act, 210 ILCS 50.
   ADVANCED LIFE SUPPORT (ALS) SERVICES (PARAMEDIC).
      (1)   An advanced level of pre-hospital and inter-hospital emergency care
and non-emergency medical services that includes basic life support care,
cardiac monitoring, cardiac defibrillation, electrocardiography, intravenous
therapy, administration of medications, drugs and solutions, use of adjunctive
medical devices, trauma care, and other authorized techniques and procedures,
as outlined in the provisions of the National EMS Education Standards relating
to advanced life support and any modifications to that curriculum specified in
rules adopted by the Department pursuant to this Act.
(210 ILCS 50/3.10(a))
      (2)   Each ALS vehicle shall be staffed by a minimum of one EMT-
Paramedic, Pre-Hospital RN or physician and one other EMT, Pre-Hospital RN or
physician.
(77 I.A.C. 515.830(f)(3))
   AMBULANCE.
      (1)   Any publicly or privately owned on-road vehicle that is
specifically designed, constructed or modified and equipped, and is intended to
be used for, and is maintained or operated for the emergency transportation of
persons who are sick, injured, wounded or otherwise incapacitated or helpless,
or the non-emergency medical transportation of persons who require the presence
of medical personnel to monitor the individual’s condition or medical apparatus
being used on such individuals.
(210 ILCS 50/3.85(a)(1))
      (2)   All vehicle service providers, both publicly and privately owned,
shall function within an EMS system.
(210 ILCS 50/3.85(b)(1))
      (3)   All vehicle service providers meeting requirements for licensure
shall be licensed by IDPH.
      (4)   A vehicle service provider is prohibited from advertising,
identifying its vehicles or disseminating information in a false or misleading
manner concerning the provider’s type and level of vehicles, location, primary
service area, response times, level of personnel, licensure status or system
participation.
(210 ILCS 50/3.85(b)(10))
   BASIC LIFE SUPPORT (BLS) SERVICES.
      (1)   (a)   A basic level of pre-hospital and inter-hospital emergency
care and non-emergency medical services that includes medical monitoring,
clinical observation, airway management, cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR),
control of shock and bleeding and splinting of fractures, as outlined in the
provisions of the National EMS Education Standards relating to basic life
support and any modifications to that curriculum specified in rules adopted by
the Department pursuant to this Act.
         (b)   That care shall be initiated, where authorized by the EMS
Medical Director in a Department approved EMS system, under the written or
verbal direction of a physician licensed to practice medicine in all of its
branches or under the verbal direction of an Emergency Communications
Registered Nurse.
(210 ILCS 50/3.10(c))
      (2)   Each BLS vehicle shall be staffed by a minimum of two EMT-Basics.
(77 I.A.C. 515.830(f)(1))
   DEPARTMENT. The Illinois Department of Public Health.
(210 ILCS 50/3.5)
   EMERGENCY. A medical condition of recent onset and severity that would lead
a prudent lay person, possessing an average knowledge of medicine and health,
to believe that urgent or unscheduled medical care is required.
(210 ILCS 50/3.5)
   EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSONNEL.
      (1)   EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN or EMT. A person who has successfully
completed a course in basic life support as approved by the Department, is
currently licensed by the Department in accordance with standards prescribed by
this Act and rules adopted by the Department pursuant to this Act, and
practices within an EMS system.
(210 ILCS 50/3.50(a))
      (2)   EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN - INTERMEDIATE (EMT-I). A person who
has successfully completed a course in intermediate life support as approved by
the Department, is currently licensed by the Department in accordance with
standards prescribed by this Act and rules adopted by the Department pursuant
to this Act, and practices within an intermediate or advanced life support EMS
system.
(210 ILCS 50/3.50(b))
      (3)   PARAMEDIC (EMT-P). A person who has successfully completed a course
in advanced life support care as approved by the Department, is licensed by the
Department in accordance with standards prescribed by this Act and rules
adopted by the Department pursuant to this Act, and practices within an
advanced life support EMS system.
(210 ILCS 50/3.50(c))
      (4)   (a)   An EMT, EMT-I, or paramedic may practice as an EMT, EMT-I, or
paramedic or utilize his or her EMT, EMT-I, or paramedic license in pre-
hospital or inter-hospital emergency care settings or non-emergency medical
transport situations, under the written or verbal direction of the EMS Medical
Director. For purposes of this division, a PRE-HOSPITAL EMERGENCY CARE SETTING
may include a location, that is not a health care facility, which utilizes EMS
personnel to render pre-hospital emergency care prior to the arrival of a
transport vehicle. The location shall include communication equipment and all
of the portable equipment and drugs appropriate for the EMT, EMT-I, or
paramedic’s level of care, as required by this Act, rules adopted by the
Department pursuant to this Act, and the protocols of the EMS systems, and
shall operate only with the approval and under the direction of the EMS Medical
Director.
         (b)   This division shall not prohibit an EMT, EMT-I, or paramedic
from practicing within an emergency department or other health care setting for
the purpose of receiving continuing education or training approved by the EMS
Medical Director. This division shall also not prohibit an EMT, EMT-I, or
paramedic from seeking credentials other than his or her EMT, EMT-I, or
paramedic license and utilizing such credentials to work in emergency
departments or other health care settings under the jurisdiction of that
employer.
(210 ILCS 50/3.55(b))
   EMS MEDICAL DIRECTOR (EMSMD) (AT MEMORIAL HOSPITAL, BELLEVILLE, IL). The
physician, appointed by the resource hospital, who has the responsibility and
authority for total management of the EMS system.
   EMS SYSTEM COORDINATOR (AT MEMORIAL HOSPITAL, BELLEVILLE, IL). The
designated individual responsible to the EMS Medical Director and EMS
Administrative Director for coordination of the educational and functional
aspects of the system program.
   INTERMEDIATE LIFE SUPPORT (ILS) SERVICES.
      (1)   An intermediate level of pre-hospital and inter-hospital emergency
care and non-emergency medical care that includes basic life support care, plus
intravenous cannulation and fluid therapy, invasive airway management, trauma
care and other authorized techniques and procedures as outlined in the
Intermediate Life Support National Curriculum of the United States Department
of Transportation and modifications to that curriculum specified in this
subchapter.
(210 ILCS 50/3.10)
      (2)   Each ILS vehicle shall be staffed by a minimum of one EMT-I, Pre-
Hospital RN or physician and one other EMT, Pre-Hospital RN or physician.
(77 I.A.C. 515.830(f)(3))
   PRE-HOSPITAL REGISTERED NURSE or PRE-HOSPITAL RN (PHRN).
      (1)   A registered professional nurse, licensed under the state’s Nursing
Act of 1987, who has successfully completed supplemental education in
accordance with this subchapter and who is approved by an EMS Medical Director
to practice within an EMS system as emergency medical.
      (2)   Services personnel for pre-hospital or inter-hospital emergency
care and non-emergency medical transports.
(210 ILCS 50/3.80(b))
   RESOURCE HOSPITAL (MEMORIAL HOSPITAL, BELLEVILLE, IL). The hospital with the
authority and the responsibility for an EMS system as outlined in the
Department-approved EMS system program plan. The RESOURCE HOSPITAL, through the
EMS Medical Director, assumes responsibility for the entire program, including
the clinical aspects, operations and educational programs. This hospital agrees
to replace medical supplies and provide for equipment exchange for
participating EMS vehicles.
(1960 Code, § 7-3-1) (Ord. 5895, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 112.16 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, either as owner, agent or otherwise, shall furnish, operate,
conduct, maintain, advertise or otherwise be engaged in, or hold himself or
herself out to be engaged in the operation of an ambulance unless he or she
holds a valid license under this subchapter. In the case of a major catastrophe
in which the number of licensed ambulances in the locality of the catastrophe
are insufficient to render required services, vehicles operated by other
persons, with licensed EMTs/PHRNs/MDs on board, may be used to render transport
service. No vehicle shall bear ambulance identification with insignias and
flashing lights or warning signal devices unless it is operated by a licensed
ambulance service as provided herein.
(1960 Code, § 7-3-2) (Ord. 5895, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.17 APPLICATION FOR AMBULANCE LICENSE.
   (A)   Application for a license to operate an ambulance service and renewals
therefor shall be made upon forms provided by the City Clerk.
   (B)   The application shall contain the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant; the name and address of the
owner of the ambulances if different from that of the applicant;
      (2)   The trade or other fictitious name, if any, under which the
applicant does business or proposes to do business;
      (3)   The location and description of the required permanent ambulance
base in the city, at which the two required ALS ambulances and personnel are
stationed for immediate response 24 hours a day, every day of the year;
      (4)    A description of each ambulance which the applicant operates or
intends to operate within the license year, including the make, model, year of
manufacture, serial number, the length of time the ambulance has been in use,
color scheme, insignia, name, monogram or other distinguishing characteristics
to be used to designate applicant’s ambulances;
      (5)   A brief description of training and experience of the applicant in
the transportation and care of patients including experience in the city area;
and
      (6)   Such other information as the City Council may deem necessary for a
fair determination as to the applicant’s compliance with all the provisions of
this subchapter.
(1960 Code, § 7-3-3) (Ord. 5895, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 112.18 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   All applications for licenses provided herein, or renewals thereof,
shall be accompanied by an application or renewal fee of $50. The license year
shall commence on the day and month of the issuance of the license and shall
end one year from such date.
   (B)   The application or renewal fee shall be returned to the applicant in
the event the application is denied.
(1960 Code, § 7-3-4) (Ord. 5895, passed 7-20-1998; Ord. 8181-2018, passed 3-19-
2018)
§ 112.19 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   The City Council shall consider in addition to the items provided in the
application form:
   (A)   The experience and responsibility of the applicant to the city area;
   (B)   The effect the proposed service may have on the general welfare of the
community;
   (C)   Whether applicant is in compliance with the standards for operating an
ambulance service, including equipment standards as required by 77 I.A.C.
515.830; and
   (D)   Such other matters as may appear to the licensing authority to be
genuine to the purpose of this subchapter.
(1960 Code, § 7-3-5) (Ord. 5895, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 112.20 STANDARDS FOR AMBULANCES.
   (A)   Every vehicle used as an ambulance shall be designed and constructed
to meet the vehicle design criteria detailed in 77 I.A.C. 515.830(a)(1)(2)(3)
(4).
   (B)   Each ambulance used as a basic life support, intermediate life support
or advanced life support (paramedic) shall meet and comply with all
requirements, including equipment, staffing, personnel and hours of operation
as determined by the EMS System Resource Hospital, the state’s Department of
Public Health and 77 I.A.C. and the EMS Systems Act (210 ILCS 50).
(1960 Code, § 7-3-6) (Ord. 5895, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.21 EMT/PHRN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Every EMT/Pre-Hospital RN/MD must possess a valid driver’s license as
is issued and required by the state for operation of this type vehicle.
   (B)   Every EMT/Pre-Hospital RN/MD must hold a valid Illinois EMT/Pre-
Hospital RN/MD license and approved by the Resource Hospital EMS Medical
Director to function within the EMS System.
   (C)   All EMT/Pre-Hospital RN/MD personnel shall meet the standards required
in the EMS Act, EMS rules and regulations and system policies.
   (D)   Every ambulance company shall supply the city with a list of their
approved state licensed EMT/Pre-Hospital RN employees identifying their level
of licensure, licensure number and signature of the Resource Hospital EMS
Medical Director.
(1960 Code, § 7-3-7) (Ord. 5895, passed 7-20-1998) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.22 SERVICE; OPERATION.
   (A)   Each ambulance company approved for 911 calls, shall have in the city,
two advanced life support (paramedic) ambulances available for operation 24
hours a day, every day of the year.
   (B)   Each ambulance company shall have in the city a permanent ambulance
base at which the required ambulances and personnel are stationed for immediate
response 24 hours a day, every day of the year.
   (C)   Each licensee/ambulance company must maintain a 24-hour dispatch
center staffed by certified EMD telecommunicators. Location of the dispatch
center, description of 911 dispatching procedures and a list of certified EMD
telecommunicators must be submitted to the Mayor.
   (D)   Each ambulance service shall maintain records of maintenance,
emergency calls and personnel.
   (E)   Any additional ambulance companies operating from within the city
limits must also comply with all licensing requirements and may be utilized by
the city-approved ALS providers for mutual aid.
(1960 Code, § 7-3-8) (Ord. 5895, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 112.23 LICENSEE INSURANCE.
   Every ambulance licensee shall file with the City Clerk, prior to the start
of operation under said license, a certificate of insurance of a reputable and
acceptable insurance carrier, showing current insurance coverage for each
licensed employee and ambulance used by the licensee. The minimum amount of
such insurance for personal injury or death shall be $1,000,000; $100,000 for
loss or damage of property, including personal property and incidental
malpractice coverage in the amount of $1,000,000. The insurance required shall
run from January 1 to December 31 of each year and it shall be the duty of the
ambulance licensee to notify the City Clerk if his or her insurance is
canceled.
(1960 Code, § 7-3-9) (Ord. 5895, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 112.24 REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   In addition to any penalty that may be provided in this subchapter,
violation of any of the provisions hereof, or a failure to comply with any of
the standards or qualifications provided herein, after reasonable notice to
licensee and an opportunity to so comply, may be grounds for suspension or
revocation by the licensing authority, and the privileges thereunder, when once
revoked, shall not again be granted to the same person, firm or corporation, or
any such firm or entity made up in part of the person or persons formerly of
interest in the revoked license or privileges. Any licensee, whose license is
revoked or whose license is suspended for a period of more than two weeks may,
in writing, request of the licensing authority a hearing on such revocation or
suspension, which hearing shall be held within ten days after being notified of
the revocation or suspension. The hearing will be held by the licensing
authority or his or her qualified designee, at which hearing anything touching
upon any aspect of the license, the vehicle’s equipment, operation, personnel,
qualifications, character or any other consideration involving the licensee or
the ambulance service of such licensee may be considered. Upon the conclusion
of the hearing, the licensing authority or his or her qualified designee shall
reduce to writing, within five days, his or her findings with regard to such
hearing, a copy of which is to be furnished to the licensee.
(1960 Code, § 7-3-10) (Ord. 5895, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 112.25 COOPERATION.
   (A)   The ambulance service(s) licensed by the city and the personnel
thereof shall cooperate with one another and with the public safety and
emergency services operating within the city, both generally and specifically,
at the scene of an emergency. In the event the Police Chief or Fire Chief, or
their designated assistant, is on the scene, they shall be in charge of the
scene. Providing the scene is safe, emergency medical services personnel will
assume control of the patient(s) immediately upon arrival to the scene.
   (B)   If an ambulance is requested for an emergency call in the city, an ALS
(paramedic) ambulance will be dispatched to the scene. Anyone licensed by the
city, if dispatched to an emergency call, must respond to that call or
immediately inform the telecommunicator if they are unable to respond. If
unable to respond, the telecommunicator will immediately attempt transfer of
the call to another ALS (paramedic) service.
(1960 Code, § 7-3-11) (Ord. 5895, passed 7-20-1998)
§ 112.26 RULES AND REGULATIONS; AUTHORITY.
   The licensing authority is authorized to make such reasonable rules and
regulations not contrary to or in conflict with the provisions of this
subchapter as he or she may deem necessary and hereof, all in the public
interest.
(1960 Code, § 7-3-12) (Ord. 5895, passed 7-20-1998)
HOMELESS SHELTERS
§ 112.40 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter and the policy of the city to support,
foster and establish standards for the licensing and regulation of facilities
to provide shelter to persons who are temporarily without permanent housing.
Such facilities are designed to provide shelter on an emergency and temporary
basis and not intended to be permanent residences or a substitute for permanent
residences.
(1960 Code, § 7-26-1) (Ord. 7214, passed 1-5-2009)
§ 112.41 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Mayor, or his or her designee, shall administer this subchapter and may,
with the approval of the City Council, promulgate rules and regulations to
carry out its enforcement.
(1960 Code, § 7-26-2) (Ord. 7214, passed 1-5-2009)
§ 112.42 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular number and words in the
singular number include the plural number. The word “shall” is always mandatory
and not merely directory.
   APPLICANT. A person that submits to the Department of Health, Housing and
Building an application for a license or the renewal of a license to conduct,
operate or maintain a shelter under this subchapter.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The chief law enforcement officer of the Department of
Police for the city, or his or her designee responsible for the inspection of
licenses, investigation of complaints of violations with license ordinances to
ensure compliance with this subchapter.
   CONGREGATE SHELTER. Provides private accommodations to each family living at
the shelter, and shares communal space such as living room, dining room and
kitchen with the other resident families. CONGREGATE SHELTERS have 24-hour, on-
site, coverage 365 days a year. Case managers are on site daily to assist
families with their search for permanent housing; overcoming the obstacles that
led them there; and establishing links with external service providers to
assist families in reaching their self-sufficiency goals. The program includes
nutrition education, budgeting; parenting classes; job searches; crisis
intervention; legal advocacy; counseling; case management; and tutoring for
children, to ensure that families will be successful when they obtain permanent
housing.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Department of Department of Health, Housing
and Building for the city, or his or her designee, charged with the
responsibility of enforcing and administering the provisions of this
subchapter.
   EMERGENCY SHELTER. A facility which provides congregate style temporary
lodging either with or without meals and ancillary services on the premises to
primarily the homeless for more than four weeks in any calendar year, but does
not provide such lodging to any individual who is required because of age,
mental disability or other reason to reside either in a public or private
institution or who is imprisoned or otherwise detained pursuant to either
federal or state law, and excludes an adult foster care facility, designated
transitional housing, a nursing home, a temporary emergency shelter or a
warming center.
   HOMELESS FAMILY. A family that lacks a fixed, regular and adequate nighttime
residence or a family that has a primary nighttime residence that is any of the
following:
      (1)   A supervised public or private operated shelter designed to provide
temporary living accommodations (including welfare hotels, congregate shelters
and transitional housing for the mentally ill);
      (2)   An institution that provides a temporary residence for individuals
intended to be institutionalized; and/or
      (3)   A public or private place not designed for, or ordinarily used as,
a regular sleeping accommodation.
   HOMELESS PERSON. For purposes of this subchapter, HOMELESS PERSON means
either of the following:
      (1)   An individual who lacks a fixed, regular and adequate nighttime
residence; or
      (2)   An individual who has a primary nighttime residence that is any of
the following:
         (a)   A supervised public or private operated shelter designed to
provide temporary living accommodations (including welfare hotels, congregate
shelters and transitional housing for the mentally ill);
         (b)   An institution that provides a temporary residence for
individuals intended to be institutionalized; and/or
         (c)   A public or private place not designed for, or ordinarily used
as, a regular sleeping accommodation.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
any organization of any kind.
   REFERRING AGENCY. Any public or private entity that received federal or
state funds for the purpose of arranging, referring or facilitating the
placement of homeless families with school age children in shelter facilities.
   SHELTER. Either an emergency shelter or a shelter for victims of domestic
violence.
   SHELTER FOR VICTIMS OF DOMESTIC VIOLENCE. A residential facility which
provides temporary accommodation and support for victims of domestic violence
either with or without their minor children.
   SHELTERS FOR THE TEMPORARILY HOMELESS. Refer to definition of SHELTER in
this subchapter.
   TEMPORARY EMERGENCY SHELTER. A building which is opened on an urgent basis
to provide shelter for the homeless from the elements for not more than four
weeks in any calendar year, including those operated in concert by churches and
other religious organizations that permit the homeless to utilize their
facilities as a place of lodging.
   TRANSITIONAL SHELTER/HOUSING. Residential accommodations for two or more
persons, including support/counseling services for homeless individuals and/or
families. The intent of this type of facility is to provide a stable
environment for the homeless and to facilitate self-sufficiency. TRANSITIONAL
HOUSING (TH) is a program under the Supportive Housing Demonstration Program
(SDHP). Homeless persons or families may live in a TH project for up to two
years according to United States Department of Housing and Urban Development
(HUD) regulations. Additional descriptions may be obtained from HUD regulations
24 C.F.R. § 577.5 as “transitional housing” or in 24 C.F.R. § 583.5 as
“supportive housing”.
   WARMING/COOLING CENTERS AND EXTREME WEATHER OVERNIGHT CENTERS. Facilities
which are not designed for lodging and are solely operated for the purpose of
sheltering the transient homeless and others from the elements for brief
intervals during any 24-hour period in accordance with the declaration of the
Mayor under § 11 of the state’s Emergency Management Agency Act (20 ILCS 3305/
11). The location of a warming/cooling center and/or an extreme weather
overnight center is subject to approval by the Mayor.
   WELFARE HOTEL. A hotel used to house homeless people or families receiving
Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC), Temporary Assistance for Needy
Families (TANF) or other similar federal or state public aid or welfare benefit
until they can transition into permanent traditional housing.
(1960 Code, § 7-26-3) (Ord. 7214, passed 1-5-2009; Ord. 7786, passed 6-16-2014;
Ord. 8210-2018, passed 6-18-2018)
§ 112.43 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall conduct, operate or maintain or permit to be
conducted, operated or maintained or participate in the conduct, operation or
maintenance of a shelter for the temporarily homeless within the city unless
the city has issued a license as provided for in this subchapter and which is
in full force and effect.
   (B)   Said license shall be issued only if the applicant is approved
pursuant to procedures established in this subchapter, and has received a
special use designation from the Zoning Board of Appeals in accordance with
procedures established in the city code.
(1960 Code, § 7-26-4) (Ord. 7214, passed 1-5-2009) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.44 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Application for such license shall be made to the Director in such
form and manner as may be prescribed by said Director.
   (B)   The application shall be under oath and shall contain:
      (1)   The location of the premises for which a license is sought;
      (2)   The proposed maximum number of persons to be housed in the shelter;
      (3)   The name and address of the applicant if an individual and, if a
firm, partnership, corporation or association, the principal address of the
entity and name and address of its officers;
      (4)   The name of the person(s) under whose management or supervision the
shelter will be conducted;
      (5)   The date of special use approval;
      (6)   Guidelines to be utilized for operation of shelter (including, but
not limited to, such policies as admission criteria, procedures for linkage
with social service agencies, procedures for termination of stay); and
      (7)   Such other information as the Director may require implementing
this subchapter.
(1960 Code, § 7-26-5) (Ord. 7214, passed 1-5-2009)
§ 112.45 INSPECTION.
   Upon receipt of an application for a license hereunder, the Director shall
cause an inspection to be made of the proposed shelter by the city’s Fire,
Housing and Health Departments. The applicant shall afford the representative
of the city’s departments reasonable opportunity to inspect the applicant’s
location for which the license is requested and to interview the applicant’s
agents and employees and any other person within his or her or its custody or
control in the particular premises for which a license is being requested.
During the term of licensure, the Director may conduct inspections of the
shelter at any time without notice to licensee.
(1960 Code, § 7-26-6) (Ord. 7214, passed 1-5-2009)
§ 112.46 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Upon completion of such inspection and a review of the application, the
Director shall issue an appropriate license to the applicant for the shelter
providing the Director finds and determines that the applicant meets the
minimum standards of the Fire, Housing and Health Codes and that such conforms
to the requirements of this subchapter.
(1960 Code, § 7-26-7) (Ord. 7214, passed 1-5-2009)
§ 112.47 LICENSE TERM AND CONDITION.
   (A)   Annual license. The Director shall provide for the issuance and
renewal of licenses for shelters. The licenses shall be issued on forms
prescribed by the Director. Each license, whether an original or a renewal
license, shall expire at the end of one year from the date of its issuance
(which date of expiration shall be stated upon its face) unless sooner revoked
or surrendered. Licenses shall not be transferable either as to place or
person. The license shall be displayed in a conspicuous place near the main
entrance inside the shelter.
   (B)   Maximum number of occupants. Unless otherwise restricted by the
special use permit granted for a specified shelter, the maximum number of
occupants permitted to remain in any such shelter shall be computed by dividing
the square footage of habitable floor area by 80 (resulting fractions to be
disregarded) to a maximum of 20 occupants.
   (C)   Admission agreement. No owner, operator or manager of a shelter shall
allow a person to occupy a shelter unless said person has completed a criminal
history/warrants check with the city’s Police Department, signed an agreement
stating that he or she understands that the stay is for a temporary period and
does not intend the shelter to be a permanent residence.
   (D)   Staff requirements. Each shelter shall be staffed with at least two
persons on duty and awake during operating hours. One of these persons shall be
designated as night supervisor and shall be responsible for administration of
the shelter during this time period.
   (E)   Records and reports. Every licensee shall keep and maintain such
records and make such reports available to the Director of Health, Housing and
Sanitation (herein referred to as the “Director”) as may reasonably be required
to implement this subchapter, including, but not limited to, a list of names of
all persons who stay overnight at the shelter and the dates of the stay. Data
from such reports and from applications on file within the city shall be made
available by the Director in accordance with disclosure requirements of the
Public Records Act. Every licensee shall make available for view or inspection
by the Chief of Police or his or her designee or officers on duty during the
normal shelter business hours a list of names of all persons who are temporary
or long term residents and those who stay overnight. Officers shall also be
permitted to view such records or intake registries during non-regular business
hours when an exigence/emergency is determined to exist by the responding
officers and a good faith effort to notify on duty staff is attempted or made.
(1960 Code, § 7-26-8) (Ord. 7214, passed 1-5-2009) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.48 ADDITIONAL OPERATING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Separation of sleeping areas. Separate sleeping areas shall be
provided for men, women and parents with children, if applicable.
   (B)   No smoking materials permitted. The owner, operator or manager of a
shelter shall not allow the use of smoking materials therein, but only in an
outside designated smoking area 15 or more feet from any outside door, window
or intake vent. Outside smoking areas shall be monitored by the staff of the
shelter to ensure shelter residents do not cause noise complaints from area
residents or a breach of the peace.
   (C)   Smoke detection and carbon monoxide devices. Smoke detection and
carbon monoxide devices, as described in the adopted Fire Code, shall be
installed and maintained in the manner designated in said requirements, in each
shelter as follows:
      (1)   Within each sleeping area;
      (2)   In each corridor with the distance between each smoke detection
device not to exceed 40 feet;
      (3)   At the uppermost ceiling of each stairwell and open shaft; and
      (4)   In each room or area used for storage.
   (D)   Evacuation diagram. In each temporary shelter for the homeless, a
diagram shall be posted on each floor of a shelter, illustrating evacuation
routes from the floor and the shelter in the event of an emergency. Such
diagram shall measure no less than 20 inches square, and shall be posted in a
place and manner where it will be readily visible to occupants.
(1960 Code, § 7-26-9) (Ord. 7214, passed 1-5-2009) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.49 ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to provide as part of the regular
accommodations or services of any shelter for the homeless, any medical care or
treatment, nursing care or other health related care. Nothing contained herein
shall prohibit any person from obtaining emergency medical care or treatment
for any occupant of such shelter in the event of an emergency.
   (B)   No person shall own, operate or manage a shelter except on a not-for-
profit basis and without charge to occupants thereof. However, occupants may be
required to do work to maintain shelter facilities in exchange for shelter
accommodations.
   (C)   No owner, operator or manager shall knowingly allow a shelter occupant
to bring weapons, alcohol or un-prescribed drugs into the shelter.
   (D)   No child sex offender, an individual who has been convicted of or
placed on deferred adjudication for a sexual offense involving a person under
17 years of age for which the individual is required to register as a sex
offender under the state’s Sex Offender Registered Act, as amended (730 ILCS
150/1 et seq.), shall be permitted to stay temporarily, while in transit or
overnight at the shelter.
(1960 Code, § 7-26-10) (Ord. 7214, passed 1-5-2009) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.50 COMPLIANCE WITH LOCAL CODES.
   The premises used as shelters, as defined herein, shall comply with the
building, housing, zoning, fire and health provisions of this code of
ordinances for the type of structure being utilized and with any other
requirements of this subchapter.
(1960 Code, § 7-26-11) (Ord. 7214, passed 1-5-2009) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.51 VIOLATIONS.
   The Director, Chief of Police or their designee shall have authority to
issue written notices of violations to licensee specifying the particular
violations and the time allowed for correction.
(1960 Code, § 7-26-12) (Ord. 7214, passed 1-5-2009)
§ 112.52 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   (A)   Whenever the Director determines that a violation has occurred which
endangers or threatens the life, health, safety or welfare of the shelter’s
occupants, the licensee or its employees or agents, or the community, the Mayor
may revoke the shelter’s license by providing 24 hours’ written notice to the
shelter, or by taking summary action pursuant to this subchapter. Whenever
necessary, said notice shall contain an order for evacuation of the occupants,
immediate correction of the violation(s) or such other measures which the
Director determines to be required.
   (B)   The Mayor may also revoke the license of a shelter for any violation
which is uncorrected within the time specified by the Director or Chief of
Police in a notice of violation, or for repeated violations.
   (C)   The Mayor may also revoke the license of a shelter for failure to
follow its guidelines as submitted and approved with its license application.
(1960 Code, § 7-26-13) (Ord. 7214, passed 1-5-2009)
§ 112.53 REFUSAL, RENEWAL AND REVOCATION HEARING; APPEALS.
   (A)   Whenever the Mayor shall refuse to issue a license or to renew a
license or shall revoke a license for a shelter, the person aggrieved shall
have the right to a hearing before the Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor shall grant such person a reasonable opportunity to present
in writing, or verbal testimony in an open hearing, his or her arguments
against such decision. The Mayor shall consider such arguments and the
pertinent facts and shall provide a brief response to the appeal within 45
days. The decision of the Mayor with respect to such appeal shall be final.
(1960 Code, § 7-26-14) (Ord. 7214, passed 1-5-2009)
§ 112.54 SUMMARY ACTION.
   Whenever an inspection of a shelter discloses that such shelter is in
violation of local codes and poses an immediate and serious menace to public
health and safety, the Mayor is hereby authorized to revoke licensure and to
close such shelter forthwith.
(1960 Code, § 7-26-16) (Ord. 7214, passed 1-5-2009)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
112.40 through
112.54 of this chapter is subject to prosecution and shall be fined not less
than $250, nor more than $500, for each offense, and a separate and distinct
offense shall be considered as having been committed for each and every day on
which any person shall be guilty of any such violation.
(1960 Code, § 7-26-15) (Ord. 7214, passed 1-5-2009)
CHAPTER 113: SPECIAL SALES; PERSONAL SALES
Section
General Provisions
   
113.001   Secondhand dealers
   
113.002   Wholesalers
   
113.003   (Reserved)
   
113.004   Retail jewelry stores
   
113.005   (Reserved)
   
113.006   Laundromats; hours
   
113.007   Newspaper boxes
   
113.008   Retail tobacco stores
Going Out of Business and Removal Sales
   
113.020   Definitions
   
113.021   Exceptions
   
113.022   License required
   
113.023   Application for license
   
113.024   License issuance
   
113.025   Restrictions on licenses
   
113.026   Record of application
   
113.027   Sales at bankruptcy and the like
   
113.028   Term of license and renewal
   
113.029   Posting inventory and license
   
113.030   Goods; substitution, addition and commingling
Unattended Donation/Collection Boxes
   
113.040   Purpose
   
113.041   Conflicting provisions
   
113.042   Violation
   
113.043   Responsibility
   
113.044   Definitions
   
113.045   Permit required for UDCBs
   
113.046   Application requirements
   
113.047   UDCB permit expiration and renewal
   
113.048   Requirements for the approval and renewal of a UDCB permit
   
113.049   Time limit for final decision
   
113.050   Appeal and petition process
   
113.051   Location
   
113.052   Physical attributes
   
113.053   Maintenance
   
113.054   Liability
   
113.055   Compliance process
   
113.056   Notice required for removal
Garage Sales
   
113.060   Permit required; exception
   
113.061   Permit issuance
   
113.062   Permit limitations
   
113.063   Permit restrictions
   
113.064   Revocation of permit or right to permit
Auctioneers
   
113.075   License required
   
113.076   Sidewalk and street activities
   
113.077   Posting bond
Pawnbrokers
   
113.090   Definition; license
   
113.091   Record requirements
   
113.092   Prohibited locations; restricted number of licenses
   
113.093   Daily report
   
113.094   Rate of percentage allowed; contract disclosures; charge
   
113.095   Signed memorandum, contract or note
   
113.096   Replacement of articles of property; insurance
   
113.097   Transactions with prohibited parties
   
113.098   Hold order
   
113.099   Compliance with applicable law
 
   
113.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.001 SECONDHAND DEALERS.
   (A)   A SECONDHAND DEALER is defined as any individual, corporation,
business, partnership or other entity, except a non-profit/charitable
organization, that operates a retail store or shop engaged in the business of
purchasing, selling, receiving, trading, or otherwise transferring for value
any secondhand goods, as defined herein, including but not limited to thrift,
resale shops; provided, however, that a secondhand dealer shall not include
garage sales permitted under §§
113.060 through
113.064, pawnbrokers licensed under §§
113.090 through
113.099, a licensed junk dealer under §§     through
114.029, retail establishments that derive less than 50% of gross monthly
revenues from the sale of used goods, periodic sales and special-event/
convention centers, nor the sale of used cars.
   (B)   SECONDHAND GOODS is defined as any used or discarded item of personal
property that goods, wares and merchandise which was previously owned or used
by any person other than the manufacturer, wholesaler, or retailer and has not
expended its purpose, including but not limited to any of the following:
      (1)   Antiques and collectibles.
      (2)   Artwork, including but not limited to paintings and sculptures.
      (3)   Audio-visual equipment, including but not limited to any stereo,
speaker, radio, video recorder, video camera, television set, tape or disc
player.
      (4)   Bicycles.
      (5)   Cameras and other photographic instruments and equipment.
      (6)   China.
      (7)   Computers, printers, software, and computer supplies.
      (8)   Clothing.
      (9)   Crystal.
      (10)   Electronic toys and games, and related equipment.
      (11)   Electronic equipment other than electronic toys and games.
      (12)   Fur coats and other fur clothing.
      (13)   Microwave ovens and other kitchen appliances.
      (14)   Mopeds, motor-scooters or similar devices.
      (15)   Office equipment.
      (16)   Pianos, organs, guitars, and all other musical instruments.
      (17)   Precious metals and stones, as defined herein.
      (18)   Silverware and flatware.
      (19)   Small electrical appliances.
      (20)   Sports equipment.
      (21)   Telephones, including, but not limited to pager and cellular
phones and other satellite signal devices.
      (22)   Tools.
      (23)   Trading cards and memorabilia.
      (24)   Valuable metals, including but not limited to aluminum, copper,
lead, titanium, stainless steel, copper alloy or brass, formed as a bar, cable,
rod, tubing, wire, wire scrap, clamp, connector, bushing or bearing.
      (25)    Videotapes, digital video discs, compact discs, records,
audiotapes, digital audio discs, or similar audio or audio-visual recording
media.
   (C)   No person shall engage in business as a secondhand dealer within the
city without a license. The license fee is $50 per year. No more than two
currently-licensed secondhand dealers in the special service area defined by
the special service area, Ord. 3325, and no more than ten currently licensed
secondhand dealers in the city, shall be permitted at any time. No secondhand
dealer license shall issue unless renewed by the current holder of a license
(after compliance with this section) or by a new applicant (after compliance
with this section) where a current license holder relinquishes the license in
writing, presented to the City Clerk or fails to renew said license in a timely
manner. Notwithstanding the foregoing, secondhand dealers licensed as of March
31, 2017 are entitled to have their license renewed if compliant with this
section, but may not transfer such license.
   (D)   Every secondhand dealer doing business in the city shall keep a record
of every article pledged with him or her or sold to him or her and this record
shall be open to inspection of any police officer at any time during the hours
of business. Such secondhand dealer shall require the person to present a
driver’s license or other proper identification and record the name and the
address of the person delivering the article to him or her. It shall be the
duty of every secondhand dealer to report to the police any article pledged
with him or her or which is sought to be pledged with him or her if he or she
shall have the reason to believe that the article was stolen or lost and found
by the person attempting to pledge it in the case of a lost article.
   (E)   A secondhand dealer shall not store and/or display any secondhand
goods outside of a retail store or shop other than goods normally intended for
outdoor use, and such limited outside display shall only be permitted within 20
feet of the retail store or shop between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
daily.
(1960 Code, §7-2-4) (Ord. 7216, passed 1-5-2009; Ord. 8022-2017, passed 3-20-
2017; Ord. 8181-2018, passed 3-19-2018; Ord. 8255-2018, passed 10-1-2018)
Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.002 WHOLESALERS.
   No person shall engage in business as a wholesaler within the city without a
license. The license fee is $50 per year.
(1960 Code, § 7-2-6) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.003 (RESERVED)
§ 113.004 RETAIL JEWELRY STORES.
   Every retail jewelry store doing business at retail in the city shall keep a
record of every item of jewelry, gold, watch or any other item purchased from
any individual as used merchandise, and a record shall be open to the
inspection of any police officer at any time during the hours of business. It
shall be the duty of such retail jewelry operator to report to the police any
article purchased by them or which is sought to be purchased by him or her if
he or she has reason to believe that such article was stolen, lost and found by
the person attempting to sell it.
(1960 Code, § 7-2-8) (Ord. 5490, passed 11-6-1995) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.005 (RESERVED)
§ 113.006 LAUNDROMATS; HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful for a laundromat to be open for business between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
(1960 Code, § 7-2-12) (Ord. 7258, passed 4-20-2009) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.007 NEWSPAPER BOXES.
   (A)   Registration. All persons or businesses who have unattended newspaper
or advertising box within the city must register with the City Clerk, providing
them with their name, address, telephone number and location of their newspaper
or advertising box.
(1960 Code, § 7-22-1)
   (B)   Specifications for newspaper or advertising boxes. All newspaper or
advertising boxes shall be constructed of metal and shall not exceed the
following outside dimensions:
      (1)   Height: 49 inches;
      (2)   Width: 24 inches; and
      (3)   Depth: 18 inches.
(1960 Code, § 7-22-2)
   (C)   Maintenance. All newspaper or advertising boxes shall be kept in good
repair.
(1960 Code, § 7-22-3)
   (D)   Identification. Newspaper boxes must identify the publication
enclosed. Such identification may not exceed 50 square inches in total area.
(1960 Code, § 7-22-4)
   (E)   Attachment.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to attach newspaper or advertising boxes by
any means to any public property.
      (2)   This shall include, but is not limited to, light poles, benches,
trash containers, sign poles and trees.
(1960 Code, § 7-22-5)
   (F)   Location. Newspaper or advertising boxes shall not block crosswalks,
obstruct sidewalks or limit access to public or private property.
(1960 Code, § 7-22-6)
(Ord. 6033, passed 7-17-2000) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.008 RETAIL TOBACCO STORES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      OPERATOR. The owner of a retail establishment, or the owner's agent, who
is licensed by the city to operate and maintain retail tobacco store.
      RETAIL TOBACCO STORE. Any retail establishment that derives more than 80%
of its gross revenue from the sale of loose tobacco, plants, or herbs and
cigars, cigarettes, pipes, and other smoking devices for burning tobacco and
related smoking accessories and in which the sale of other products is merely
incidental. RETAIL TOBACCO STORE includes an enclosed workplace that
manufactures, imports, or distributes tobacco or tobacco products, when, as a
necessary and integral part of the process of making, manufacturing, importing,
or distributing a tobacco product for the eventual retail sale of that tobacco
or tobacco product, tobacco is heated, burned, or smoked, or a lighted tobacco
product is tested, provided that the involved business entity: (1) maintains a
specially designated area or areas within the workplace for the purpose of the
heating, burning, smoking, or lighting activities, and does not create a
facility that permits smoking throughout; (2) satisfies the 80% requirement
related to gross sales; and (3) delivers tobacco products to consumers, retail
establishments, or other wholesale establishments as part of its business.
RETAIL TOBACCO STORE does not include a tobacco department or section of a
larger commercial establishment or any establishment with any type of liquor,
food, or restaurant license.
   (B)   Location. Retail tobacco stores shall be permitted in all commercial
zoning districts as a "special use permit" subject to approval by the City
Council, and shall only be located in a freestanding structure occupied solely
by the business and smoke from the business does not migrate into an enclosed
area where smoking is prohibited by the Smoke Free Illinois Act (410 ILCS 82/
1 et seq.).
   (C)   License required. No person, firm or corporation shall operate a
retail tobacco store within the city without having first obtained a license.
The license fee shall be $25 per year. At any time during the license period or
prior to the renewal of a license, the Mayor may order the licensee to produce
his or her accounting records to determine if the licensee is qualified to hold
a license for a retail tobacco store. The failure of the licensee to produce
said records for the Mayor upon request, shall result in the automatic
revocation of the license.
   (D)   Regulations/requirements. The operator of a retail tobacco store must
comply with all applicable state and federal laws, and city ordinances.
(Ord. 8160-2018, passed 1-15-2018) Penalty, see §
113.999
GOING OUT OF BUSINESS AND REMOVAL SALES
§ 113.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOING OUT OF BUSINESS SALE. Any sale, whether described by such name or by
any other name (such as, but not limited to, “closing out sale”, “liquidation
sale”, “lost our lease sale”, “forced to vacate sale”), held in such a manner
as to induce a belief that upon disposal of the stock of goods on hand, the
business will cease and be discontinued at the premises where the sale is
conducted.
   GOODS. All goods, wares, merchandise and other personal property, except
choses in action and money.
   REMOVAL SALE. Any sale held in such a manner as to induce a belief that upon
disposal of the stock of goods on hand, the business will cease and be
discontinued at the premises where the sale is conducted and, thereafter, will
be moved to and occupy another location.
(1960 Code, § 7-5-1) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 113.021 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter does not apply to any sales ordered by any court or referee
in bankruptcy; or to any person acting under the direction and supervision of
state or federal courts in the course of their official duties; or to sales by
a person regularly engaged in insurance or salvage sales of goods; or to the
sale of goods which have been damaged by fire, smoke, water or otherwise and
acquired for the account of others as a result of fire or other casualty.
(1960 Code, § 7-5-2) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 113.022 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall directly or indirectly advertise, represent or hold out to
the public that any sale of goods is an insurance, salvage, removal, going out
of business, insolvent’s, assignee’s or creditor’s sale of goods, or that it is
a sale of goods which have been damaged by fire, smoke, water or otherwise,
without a license from the City Clerk to conduct such sale under one of such
descriptive names.
(1960 Code, § 7-5-3) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.023 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Any applicant for a license under this subchapter shall file an application
in writing and under oath with the City Clerk setting out the following
information:
   (A)   The name and address of the applicant for the license, who must be the
owner of the goods to be sold and, in addition, if the applicant is a
partnership, corporation, firm or association, the name and position of the
individual filing the application;
   (B)   The name and style in which such sale is to be conducted, and the
address where such sale is to be conducted;
   (C)   The dates and period of time during which the sales is to be
conducted;
   (D)   The name and address of the person who will be in charge of and
responsible for the conduct of such sale;
   (E)   A full explanation with regard to the condition or necessity which is
the occasion for such sale, including a statement of the descriptive name of
the sale and the reasons why such name is truthfully descriptive of the sale.
If the application is for a license to conduct a going out of business sale, it
shall also contain a statement that the business will be discontinued at the
premises where the sale is to be conducted upon termination of the sale. If the
application is for a license to conduct a removal sale, it shall also contain a
statement that the business will be discontinued at the premises where the sale
is to be conducted upon termination of the sale, in addition to the location of
the premises to which the business is to be moved. If the application is for a
license to conduct a sale of goods damaged by fire, smoke, water or otherwise,
it shall also contain a statement as to the time, location and cause of such
fire;
   (F)   A full, detailed inventory of the goods that are to be sold. The
inventory shall itemize the goods to be sold and contain sufficient information
concerning each item, including make and brand name, if any, to clearly
identify it; list separately any goods which were purchased during a 60-day
period immediately prior to the date of making application for the license; and
show the cost price of each item in the inventory together with the name and
address of the seller of the item to the applicant, the date of the purchase,
the date of the delivery of each item to the applicant and the total value of
the inventory at cost; and
   (G)   A statement that no goods will be added to the inventory after the
application is made or during the sale and that the inventory contains no goods
received on consignment.
(1960 Code, § 7-5-4) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 113.024 LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   The City Clerk, upon receipt of an application for a license under this
subchapter and a license fee of $50 shall issue a license to the applicant
authorizing him or her to advertise, and to sell the particular goods so
inventoried at the time and place stated in the application and in accordance
with the provisions of this subchapter. The license shall be issued in
duplicate and shall bear a number and the date of its expiration. The license
may not be transferred or assigned. If a licensee is engaged in business in
other locations, advertising or offering of goods on behalf of such locations
shall not represent or imply any participation in or cooperation with the sale
on the premises specified in the license, nor shall any advertising or any
other offering of goods on behalf of the premises where the licensed sale is
being conducted represent or imply any participation in or cooperation with
such sale at other locations.
(1960 Code, § 7-5-5) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995; Ord. 8181-2018, passed 3-19-
2018)
§ 113.025 RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSES.
   (A)   No license under this subchapter shall be issued to any person:
      (1)   To conduct a sale in the trade name or style of a person in whose
goods the applicant has acquired a right or title thereto within six months
prior to the time of making application for such license;
      (2)   To continue a sale in the name of a licensee in whose goods such
person acquired a right or title while such a sale is in progress; or
      (3)   To conduct a sale, other than an insurance sale, salvage sale or a
sale of damaged goods, on the same premises within one year from the conclusion
of a prior sale of the nature covered by this subchapter.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person who acquired a right, title
or interest in goods as an heir, devisee or legatee or pursuant to an order of
process of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(1960 Code, § 7-5-6) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 113.026 RECORD OF APPLICATION.
   The City Clerk, upon issuing a license under this subchapter, shall endorse
upon the application the date of its filing and shall preserve it, and the
inventory attached to it, as a public record of his or her office. He or she
shall make a notation of it in a book to be kept for that purpose, properly
indexed, showing the name of the applicant, the date of the application, the
descriptive name of the proposed sale, the place where such sale is to be
conducted, its duration, the date of the license issued thereon, and the total
value of the goods thus to be sold. A copy of the inventory shall be available
for public inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
(1960 Code, § 7-5-7) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 113.027 SALES AT BANKRUPTCY AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall advertise or represent for sale, or sell any goods at a
bankruptcy, executor’s, administrator’s, receiver’s or trustee’s sale except
pursuant to and in compliance with federal or state statutory authority or
judicial process, or as an assignee’s or insolvent’s sale unless there is a
bona fide assignment for the benefit of creditors.
(1960 Code, § 7-5-8) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.028 TERM OF LICENSE AND RENEWAL.
   A license issued under this subchapter shall be valid for a period of not
more than 60 days from the start of the sale, but may be renewed once only for
a period not to exceed 30 days upon affidavit of the licensee that the goods
listed in the inventory have not been disposed of and that no additional goods
have been or will be added to the inventory previously filed. The application
for renewal shall be made not more than 14 days prior to the time of the
expiration of the license and shall contain a new inventory of the goods
remaining on hand at the time the application for renewal is made, which new
inventory shall be prepared and furnished in the same manner and form as the
original inventory. No renewal shall be granted if any goods have been added to
the stock listed in the inventory since the date of the issuance of the
license. An additional license fee of $25 shall be paid for the renewal of a
license.
(1960 Code, § 7-5-9) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 113.029 POSTING INVENTORY AND LICENSE.
   (A)   A copy of the application for a license under this subchapter,
including the inventory filed therewith, shall be posted in a conspicuous place
in the sales room or place where the inventoried goods are to be sold so that
the public may be informed of the facts relating to the goods before purchasing
same. Such copy need not show the purchase price of the goods. The duplicate
copy of the license issued shall be attached to the front door of the premises
where the sale is conducted in such a manner that it is clearly visible from
the street.
   (B)   Any advertisement or announcement published in connection with the
sale shall conspicuously show on its face the number of the license and the
date of its expiration.
(1960 Code, § 7-5-10) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.030 GOODS; SUBSTITUTION, ADDITION AND COMMINGLING.
   (A)   A person conducting a sale licensed under this subchapter shall not
substitute for or add to the goods described in the inventory filed. In the
case of a sale of goods damaged by fire, smoke, water or otherwise, or in the
case of an insurance sale or a salvage sale, the goods to be sold at such sale
shall be clearly and distinctly segregated, marked or identified, and
advertised, if at all, so that both on display and in advertising such goods
may be readily distinguished from other stocks, and their identity readily
ascertained. Such goods shall not be commingled with other stocks of the
licensee in such a manner to cause the goods to lose their separate identity
either on display or in advertising. A violation of this section voids the
license issued under this subchapter.
   (B)   No person in contemplation of conducting any going out of business,
removal, assignee’s or creditor’s sale, or during the continuance of such a
sale, shall order or purchase any goods for the purpose of selling them at such
sale. Any unusual purchase, or additions to the stock of goods within 60 days
after the filing of such application for a license to conduct such a sale shall
be presumptive evidence that such purchases or additions were made in
contemplation of such sale and for the purpose of selling them at such sale.
(1960 Code, § 7-5-11) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
113.999
UNATTENDED DONATION/COLLECTION BOXES
§ 113.040 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these regulations is to promote the health, safety, and/or
welfare of the public by providing minimum blight-related performance standards
for the operation of unattended donation/collection boxes (UDCBs). This
includes establishing criteria that material is not allowed to accumulate
outside of the UDCBs, the UDCBs remain free of graffiti and blight, UDCBs are
maintained in sanitary conditions, and residents and/or users are fully
informed of those who operate the UDCBs so that they can be contacted if there
are any blight-related questions or concerns.
(Ord. 9340-2024, passed 11-4-2024)
§ 113.041 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   Where a conflict exists between the regulations or requirements in this
chapter and applicable regulations or requirements contained in other chapters
of the city code, the applicable regulations or requirements of this chapter
shall prevail.
(Ord. 9340-2024, passed 11-4-2024)
§ 113.042 VIOLATION.
   Failure to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter is declared to
be prima facie evidence of an existing violation, a continuing blight and a
declared public nuisance and shall be abated by the Building Official in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Any person in violation will be
subject to administrative penalties, citations, civil action and/or other legal
remedies.
(Ord. 9340-2024, passed 11-4-2024)
§ 113.043 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The parcel owner and the UDCB operator have joint and several liability for
blight-related conditions and/or compliance with this chapter, including fees,
administrative citations, civil actions, and/or legal remedies relating to a
UDCB. The parcel owner remains liable for any violation of duties imposed by
this chapter even if the parcel owner has, by agreement, imposed on the
operator the duty of complying with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 9340-2024, passed 11-4-2024)
§ 113.044 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY ACTIVITY. An activity that is incidental to, and customarily
associated with, a specified principal activity.
   AGENT. A person who is authorized by the parcel owner to act on their behalf
in filling out all required forms of the parcel pursuant to this chapter. A
person who is given general authorization to act on behalf of a parcel owner
for various activities and transactions in regard to a property may be
considered an agent.
   BLIGHT AND NUISANCE. A UDCB that is dilapidated, physically deteriorating,
unsafe, unsanitary, marked with graffiti or generally unkempt as to constitute
a threat or nuisance to the public.
   BUILDING DEPARTMENT. The Health, Housing and Building Department of the
city.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The Director of Health, Housing and Building and his or
her successor in title and his or her designees.
   CITY. The City of Belleville, Illinois.
   DONATED/COLLECTED MATERIAL. Salvageable personal property, such as clothing,
shoes, books and household items that are collected for periodic transport off-
site for processing or redistribution or both.
   PARCEL OWNER or PROPERTY OWNER. The owner of real property on which a UDCB
is or is proposed to be placed.
   PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY. An activity that fulfills a primary function of an
establishment, institution, household, or other entity.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A main building that is occupied as a principal
activity.
   UDCB OPERATOR or OPERATOR. A person or entity who utilizes or maintains a
UDCB to solicit donations/collections of salvageable personal property.
   UDCB PERMIT. The City of Belleville's annually renewable permit required to
place, operated, maintain, or allow a UDCB within the city limits.
   UNATTENDED DONATION/COLLECTION BOXES or UDCBs. Unstaffed drop-off boxes,
containers, receptacles, or similar facility that accept textiles, shoes, books
and/or other salvageable personal property items to be used by the operator for
distribution, resale, or recycling, but shall not include furniture or other
items too large to be contained with the UDCB. This term does not include any
collection bin that is owned by the property owner and is used in connection
with, or is an accessory to, the principal business of that property.
   UNPERMITTED UDCB. A UDCB established either without a UDCB permit or with a
UDCB permit that was issued in error or on the basis of incorrect or incomplete
information supplied, or in violation of any law, ordinance, rule, or
regulation.
(Ord. 9340-2024, passed 11-4-2024)
§ 113.045 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR UDCBS.
   (A)   It is unlawful to place, operate, maintain or allow a UDCB on any real
property within the city unless the parcel owner/agent and/or operator first
obtain an UDCB permit from the city. A separate UDCB permit is required for
each UDCB.
   (B)   The UDCB permit applicant shall be the UDCB operator and the permit
may not be transferred, conveyed or otherwise assigned to another person or
entity.
   (C)   Decisions regarding UDCB permit applications shall be made by the
Building Official and the Building Official shall be considered the
investigating official acting for the city.
(Ord. 9340-2024, passed 11-4-2024)
§ 113.046 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The UDCB permit application shall be made on a form provided by the city.
All applications shall be valid for one fiscal year, filed with the Building
Department and shall include:
   (A)   A signed agreement as provided by the city stating that the operator
will abide by all the processes and requirements described in this chapter and
an expedited code enforcement process;
   (B)   A non-refundable application fee in the amount of $100;
   (C)   A signed authorization from the parcel owner/agent to allow placement
of the UDCB on a form provided by the city;
   (D)   A signed acknowledgement of responsibility from the parcel owner/agent
and the operator for joint and several liability for violations of conditions
or regulations, and/or blight relating to the UDCB on a form provided by the
city;
   (E)   Proof of general liability insurance of at least $1,000,000 covering
the applicant's UDCB and naming the city and the parcel owner as additional
insureds;
   (F)   For nonprofit operators, evidence that the nonprofit has been
registered as a nonprofit organization with the State of Illinois;
   (G)   The name, address, email, website (if available) and telephone number
of the UDCB operator and parcel owner, including 24-hour contact information;
   (H)   A vicinity map showing:
      (1)   The proposed location of the UDCB; and
      (2)   The distance between the site and all existing UDCBs within 1,000
feet of the proposed UDCB location;
   (I)   Photographs of the location and adjacent properties;
   (J)   A site plan containing:
      (1)   Location and dimensions of all parcel boundaries;
      (2)   Location of all buildings;
      (3)   Proposed UDCB location;
      (4)   Distance between the proposed UDCB and parcel lines buildings; and
      (5)   Location and dimension of all existing and proposed driveways,
garages, carports, parking spaces, maneuvering aisles, pavement and striping/
marking;
   (K)   Elevations showing the appearance, materials, and dimensions of the
UDCB, including the information required in this chapter to be placed on the
UDCB and notice sign;
   (L)   A description and/or diagram of the proposed locking mechanism of the
UDCB;
   (M)   A maintenance plan (including graffiti removal, pickup schedule, and
litter and trash removal on and around the UDCB) that is sufficient to prevent/
eliminate blight-related conditions.
(Ord. 9340-2024, passed 11-4-2024)
§ 113.047 UDCB PERMIT EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Unless renewed as described in division (B) below, each UDCB permit
shall expire and become null and void at the end of the fiscal year (April 30)
in which it is issued.
   (B)   A UDCB operator may apply for a permit for the subsequent fiscal year
by submitting an application to the Building Department by April 1 of the
current fiscal year. The UDCB permit renewal application shall be made on a
form provided by the city. All applications shall be filed with the Building
Department and shall include:
      (1)   A signed agreement stating that the operator will abide by all the
processes and requirements described in this chapter and an expedited code
enforcement process;
      (2)   Photographs of the existing UDCB;
      (3)   A non-refundable $100 application fee;
      (4)   A signed authorization from the parcel owner/agent to allow
placement of the UDCB;
      (5)   A signed acknowledgment of responsibility from the parcel owner/
agent and the operator for joint and several liability for violations of
conditions or regulations, and/or blight relating to the UDCB;
      (6)   Proof of general liability insurance of at least $1,000,000
covering the applicant's UDCB and naming the city and the parcel owner as
additional insureds;
      (7)   For nonprofit operators, evidence that the nonprofit has been
registered as a nonprofit organization with the state;
      (8)   Name and telephone number of any entity that may share or profit
from items collected via the UDCB;
      (9)   The name, address, email, website (if available) and telephone
number of the UDCB operator and parcel owner, including 24-hour contact
information; and
      (10)   Any other reasonable information regarding time, place, and manner
of UDCB operation, placement, and/or maintenance that the Building Official
requires to evaluate the proposal consistent with the requirements of this
chapter.
   (C)   The Building Official shall either approve or deny the renewal of a
UDCB permit within 30 calendar days of receipt of the complete renewal
application and payment of the renewal fee.
   (D)   The Building Official shall approve the renewal of a UDCB permit if he
or she finds that no circumstances existed during the term of the UDCB permit
or existed at any time during the review of the application for renewal that
are inconsistent with any criteria required for approval of a new UDCB permit
as specified in §
113.048.
   (E)   See §
113.050 for the appeal and petition processes for UDCB permit decisions,
including decisions regarding renewal.
(Ord. 9340-2024, passed 11-4-2024)
§ 113.048 REQUIREMENTS FOR THE APPROVAL AND RENEWAL OF A UDCB PERMIT.
   The Building Official shall not issue a UDCB permit or renewal unless each
of the following is true:
   (A)   The applicant has submitted a complete and accurate application
accompanied by the applicable fee;
   (B)   There are no open citations, unpaid fines or unresolved violations or
complaints related to any UDCB managed by the proposed operator;
   (C)   Any verified blight on the subject property has been abated and any
case of a complaint to the city regarding blighted conditions on the subject
property has been closed; and
   (D)   The proposal is consistent with all the requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   For renewals, the site does not have a history of being an attractive
nuisance even if incidents of blight were abated. For the purpose of this
chapter, HISTORY OF ATTRACTIVE NUISANCE means the UDCB received three
administrative citations in the previous 12 months.
(Ord. 9340-2024, passed 11-4-2024)
§ 113.049 TIME LIMIT FOR FINAL DECISION.
   The Building Official shall provide a written decision regarding the
placement of a UDCB within 30 calendar days of the submission of a complete
application for UDCB permit.
(Ord. 9340-2024, passed 11-4-2024)
§ 113.50 APPEAL AND PETITION PROCESSES.
   (A)   (l)   Within ten calendar days after the date of a decision by the
Building Official on an application for a UDCB permit or a renewal of such, an
appeal from said decision must be filed by the applicant or any other
interested party. The appeal shall be submitted to the Building Department. In
the event the last date of appeal falls on a weekend or holiday when city
offices are closed, the next date such offices are open for business shall be
the last date of appeal. Such appeal shall be made on a form prescribed by the
city and shall be filed with the Building Department. The appeal application
must be complete and shall state specifically wherein it is claimed there was
an error or abuse of discretion by the Building Official or wherein his or her
decision is not supported by the evidence in the record. The appeal itself must
raise each and every issue that is contested, along with all the arguments and
evidence in the record, which supports the basis of the appeal.
      (2)   If a hearing is held on the appeal, then during such hearing, the
appellant will be limited to issues and/or evidence previously raised in the
appeal itself. The appellant shall not be permitted to present any other issues
and/ or oral, written and/or documentary evidence during the appeal process. In
considering the appeal, the Mayor shall determine whether the proposal conforms
to the requirements of this chapter, and may grant or deny a permit or require
such changes in the proposed use or imposed such reasonable conditions of
approval as are in its judgment necessary to ensure conformity to said
criteria. The written decision of the Mayor shall be final and shall be made
within 60 calendar days of the submission of the appeal.
   (B)   (1)   The applicant seeking placement of a UDCB which would be
affected by this chapter and who contends that the ordinance as applied to him
or her would be unlawful under and/or conflict with federal, or local law or
regulation, must submit a petition to the Mayor requesting relief from the
ordinance. Petitions must be on the appeal form provided by the city and
submitted to the Mayor. The petition shall identify the name and address of the
applicant and property owner, the affected application number, and shall state
specifically and completely how the ordinance as applied to him or her would be
unlawful under and/or in conflict with federal, state, or local law or
regulation. Failure to raise each and every issue that is contested in the
petition and provide appropriate supporting evidence will be grounds to deny
the petition.
      (2)   If a hearing is held on the petition, then during such hearing, the
petitioner will be limited to issues and/or evidence previously raised in the
petition itself. The petitioner shall not be permitted to present any other
issues and/or oral, written and/or documentary evidence during the petition
process.
      (3)   Within 60 calendar days of receipt of the completed petition, the
Mayor, or designee, shall mail to the applicant a written determination
accepting or rejecting the petition. The written decision of the Mayor is
final. The Mayor will utilize reasonable time, place and manner criteria to
determine if the petition should be granted or denied consistent with this
chapter. If the petition is granted, the City may impose reasonable time, place
and manner-related conditions on the UDCB consistent with this chapter.
(Ord. 9340-2024, passed 11-4-2024)
§ 113.051 LOCATION.
   (A)   There shall be no more than one UDCB is permitted per parcel. UDCB's
placed on separate, adjacent parcels, must be placed at least 500 feet away
from the nearest UDCB.
   (B)   UDCBs are only allowed to be located in the following zones, which are
designated in the zoning maps described in the city zoning code:
      (1)   C-2; and
      (2)   C-4.
   (C)   No UDCBs are permitted in any other zones unlisted in division (B) of
this section.
   (D)   A UDCB is only permitted on a lot that also contains a principal
building that contains at least one operating business.
   (E)   UDCBs are prohibited within any of the following locations:
      (1)   The public right-of-way;
      (2)   Five feed from any property line; or
      (3)   Landscaping.
   (F)   UDCBs cannot block or impede access to:
      (1)   Required parking or driveways;
      (2)   Pedestrian routes;
      (3)   Emergency vehicle routes;
      (4)   Building ingress and egress;
      (5)   Required handicapped accessibility routes;
      (6)   Required easements;
      (7)   Trash enclosure areas or access to trash bins/trash enclosures; or
      (8)   Lot ingress and egress.
   (G)   UDCBs cannot impede the functioning of exhaust, ventilation, or fire
extinguishing systems.
   (H)   The donation /collection area must be visible from the principal
building and be no more than ten feet from a continually operating light
source.
(Ord. 9340-2024, passed 11-4-2024)
§ 113.052 PHYSICAL ATTRIBUTES.
   (A)   UDCBs shall:
      (1)   Be fabricated of steel;
      (2)   Be placed on ground that is paved with cement or asphalt;
      (3)   Have a collection opening that has a tamper-resistant locking
mechanism;
      (4)   Not be more than 84 inches high, 72 inches wide and 72 inches deep;
      (5)   Not be electrically or hydraulically powered or otherwise
mechanized;
      (6)   Not be a fixture of the site or considered an improvement to real
property; and
      (7)   Have the following information conspicuously displayed on at least
tow-inch type visible from the front on the UDCB:
         (a)   The name, address, 24-hour telephone number, and if available,
the internet web address, and email address of the owner and operator of the
UDCB and the parcel owner/agent;
         (b)   Address and parcel number of the site; and
         (c)   Instructions on the process to register a complaint regarding
the UDCB to the Building Official, in substantially the following form:
            "To register a complaint regarding the UDCB, contact the City of
Belleville at [PHONE NUMBER] or at [E-MAIL ADDRESS] with the permit number and
location of the UDCB detailing the complaint."
         (d)   The type of material that may be deposited;
         (e)   A notice stating that no material shall be left outside the
UDCB;
         (f)   The pickup schedule for the UDCB;
         (g)   A city provided sticker that identifies the box as being
properly permitted by the city;
         (h)   If the UDCB is owned by a nonprofit organization:
            1.   A statement describing the charitable cause that will benefit
from the donations;
            2.   The federal tax identification number of the nonprofit
organization operating the UDCB; and
            3.   The statement "This collection box is owned and operated by a
nonprofit organization."
         (i)   If the UDCB is owned by a for-profit entity:
            1.   "This donation is not tax deductible;" and
            2.   "This collection box is owned and operated by a for profit
organization."
   (B)   The parcel containing the UDCB shall display an additional standalone
sign with text in at least two-inch typeface stating that no material shall be
left outside the UDCB. This sign shall be installed at a visually conspicuous
location within a radius of 20 feet from the UDCB.
(Ord. 9340-2024, passed 11-4-2024)
§ 113.053 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   No blight shall be within 20 feet of the UDCB including, but not
limited to donation/collection overflow, litter, debris, and dumped material.
   (B)   UDCBs shall be maintained and in good working order. Items to be
repaired, removed, and/or abated include, but are not limited to graffiti,
removed or damaged signs and notifications, peeling paint, rust, and broken
collection operating mechanisms.
   (C)   UDCBs shall be serviced not less than weekly between 7:00 a.m. and 7:
00 p.m. on weekdays and 10:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekends. This servicing
includes the removal of donated/collected material and abatement of the blight
described this section.
   (D)   The operator shall maintain an active email address and a 24-hour
telephone service with recording capability for the public to register
complaints.
   (E)   UDCBs cannot be used for the collection of solid waste and/or any
hazardous materials.
(Ord. 9340-2024, passed 11-4-2024)
§ 113.054 LIABILITY.
   Applicants and/or owner(s) agent shall maintain a minimum general liability
insurance of at least $1,000,000 for the duration of the operation of a UDCB at
each site, to cover any claims or losses to the placement, operation, or
maintenance of the UDCB and naming the city as additional insured.
(Ord. 9340-2024, passed 11-4-2024)
§ 130.055 COMPLIANCE PROCESS.
   (A)   Whenever the Building Official determines that a UDCB with a valid
permit does not conform to any requirement in this chapter he/she shall
promptly notify the parcel owner/agent and UDCB operator through electronic
mail of the violation. The violation must be abated and proof of such submitted
to the city within three business days after receipt of such notification.
   (B)   If an unpermitted UDCB is not within a permissible geographic area,
then both the UDCB and any blight within 20 feet of the UDCB shall be removed
within 72 hours after the parcel owner/agent and UDCB operator is notified of
the violation.
   (C)   If an unpermitted UDCB is within a permissible geographic area then
any blight within 20 feet of the site shall be removed and the parcel owner/
agent and/ or operator shall either:
      (1)   Apply for all UDCB permits required by this chapter; or
      (2)   Remove the UDCB. This requirement shall be met within 72 hours
after the parcel owner/agent and/or UDCB operators are notified of the
violation.
   (D)   Each day, after the three business day cure period, that a violation
of a requirement of this chapter is not abated constitutes a new and separate
offense.
   (E)   The operation or maintenance of an unpermitted UDCB may be abated or
summarily abated by the city in any manner by this code or otherwise by law for
the abatement of public nuisances. All expenses incurred but the city in
connection with any action to abate a public nuisance will be chargeable to the
persons creating, causing, committing, or maintaining the public nuisance and
is an express condition of the permit.
   (F)   The city shall issue administration citations against a parcel owner
and/or operator who fails to timely resolve a violation or verified compliance
is not sent to the city showing the resolution of the violation relating to a
UDCB after notice. The city shall issue administrative citations as follows:
      (1)   Not more than $150 for the first citation after the 72-hour
abatement period;
      (2)   Not more than $250 for the second citation after the 72-hour
abatement period; and
      (3)   Not more than $500 for the third and each subsequent citation after
the 72-hour abatement period.
   (G)   The daily administrative citations described in subsection (F) of this
section shall continue until either the violation is abated or the UDCB is
removed. Removal of the UDCB shall be at the expense of the parcel owner and/or
operator. Any UDCBs removed shall also have any of its UDCB permits revoked.
   (H)   The property owner and operator are jointly and severally liable and
responsible for all fees, administrative citations, and compliance with the
regulations.
   (I)   A party aggrieved by a final administrative decision of the city,
after an appeal has been made pursuant to §
113.050, may seek judicial review of the administrative decision pursuant to
the Illinois Code of Civil Procedure within the timeframe pursuant to those
code sections.
   (J)   All notices for unpermitted UDCBs shall be in writing and personally
delivered to the parcel owner/agent and UDCB operator or by depositing such
notice in the United States mail, postage paid, and addressed to the parcel
owner/agent at the owner(s) last known address as it appears on the last Will
County equalized assessments roll, as well as placed on the UDCB itself. If the
city cannot reasonably determine the name and/or address of the unpermitted
UDCB operators, placing the written notice of the UDCB itself constitutes
sufficient notice. All notices regarding permitted UDCBs shall be through
electronic mail.
   (K)   Administrative citations established in this chapter are in addition
to any other administrative or legal remedy which may be pursued by the city to
address violations identified in this chapter.
(Ord. 9340-2024, passed 11-4-2024)
§ 113.056 NOTICE REQUIRED FOR REMOVAL.
   (A)   Any UDCB scheduled to be removed by either the city or the operator
shall clearly display a notice on the UDCB with at least four-inch type visible
from the front on the UDCB that states the following text in capital letters:
"THIS BOX WILL BE REMOVED BY" followed by the date the UDCB is scheduled for
removal. The entity who is removing the UDCB is responsible for placement of
the notice on the UDCB.
   (B)   For UDCBs required to be removed by the city due to an abatement
order, the notice shall be posted immediately after the city notifies the
operator and/or parcel owner that the facility is required to be removed.
   (C)   Notice that a UDCB will be removed by the owner or operator shall be
posted as least 14 calendar days prior to the removal of the facility.
(Ord. 9340-2024, passed 11-4-2024)
GARAGE SALES
§ 113.060 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall sell, offer for sale or conduct the sale of any junk,
secondhand, antique or other used or discarded items of personal property from
any residence in the city or from any area classified as residential in the
Zoning Code of the city without first obtaining a permit therefor. Included
within the terms of this subchapter shall be sales commonly known as “house
sales”, “attic sales” and “basement sales”. The provision of this subchapter
shall not apply to bankruptcy, estate or other sales under judicial process and
sales conducted from church, school or civic buildings by non-profit religious,
civic or charitable organizations.
(1960 Code, § 7-8-1) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.061 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   The City Clerk is authorized to issue a permit required by this subchapter
for a $5 fee to any resident person upon compliance by such person with the
provisions of this code. Said permit shall list, the applicant by name and
address and the City Clerk shall keep a record of all permits issued.
(1960 Code, § 7-8-2) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995; Ord. 6843, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 113.062 PERMIT LIMITATIONS.
   No person shall be permitted to conduct a house or garage sale from his or
her premises or participate in a garage or house sale conducted by another
resident more than three during any calendar year. No more than three permits
shall be issued to any person as a permit holder or permit participant during
any calendar year for the purpose of conducting or participating in such house
or garage sale.
(1960 Code, § 7-8-3) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.063 PERMIT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Permit valid only for sale designated on permit; permit to be posted;
non-transferable. A permit issued pursuant to this subchapter shall be valid
only for the particular sale and premises designated on the permit. The permit
shall be posted in the front yard area so as to be easily seen by the police
and shall be non-transferable.
   (B)   Person conducting sale to be owner or occupant of premises. It shall
be unlawful for any person to conduct a sale pursuant to this subchapter who is
not the owner or occupant of the premises where such sale is held.
   (C)   Operation of retail selling business prohibited. It shall be unlawful
for anyone to conduct a retail selling business pursuant to a permit issued
under this subchapter or to engage in any sales other than those of junk,
secondhand, antique or other used or discarded items of property.
   (D)   Restrictions on location of sales activities. No sales regulated by
this subchapter shall be located on any public sidewalk or parkway area.
   (E)   Length of sale; house. Sales regulated by this subchapter shall be
limited to a period of three consecutive days and shall be conducted only
during the periods from 7:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
   (F)   Advertising sales restricted. All signs advertising any sale held
pursuant to this subchapter shall be located on the public right-of-way. No
signs or advertising matter shall be posted upon city signs, state signs or
utility poles. Signs are allowed to remain standing from dawn until dusk on the
day of the sale.
   (G)   Use of loudspeakers and amplifiers prohibited. No sale held pursuant
to this subchapter shall be conducted with the use of outdoor loudspeakers or
other amplification equipment.
(1960 Code, § 7-8-4) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995; Ord. 5771, passed 8-4-1997)
Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.064 REVOCATION OF PERMIT OR RIGHT TO PERMIT.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this subchapter shall be
subject to the immediate revocation of the permit under which the person is a
permit holder or permit participant, and shall be further subject to the loss
of the privilege of obtaining a permit or of having the right to participate in
such permit in the future.
(1960 Code, § 7-8-5) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
AUCTIONEERS
§ 113.075 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall carry on the business of auctioneer in the city without a
license. In case such license is for the selling at an auction room or store,
the license fee is $50 per year. Any person permanently engaged in the business
of auctioneer and having such auction rooms may employ an auctioneer to sell
for him or her at his or her rooms without taking out an additional license.
This subchapter does not apply to public or auction sales made by any public
officer by virtue of any judicial order or process, or by virtue of any power
or authority contained in any chattel or other mortgage or any trust deed.
(1960 Code, § 7-2-1) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.076 SIDEWALK AND STREET ACTIVITIES.
   No person, whether licensed as an auctioneer or not, shall sell, or attempt
to sell, or shall cry for sale, at public auction, any goods, chattels or
personal property to any person upon any sidewalk or street.
(1960 Code, § 7-2-1) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.077 POSTING BOND.
   All auctioneers, which shall in addition to any license fee required, post a
bond with the City Clerk in the amount of $500, the sufficiency of which bond
shall be determined by the City Clerk. Condition of such bond shall be that if
the auctioneer shall restore the premises on which the auction was held and
remove all debris and waste materials to the satisfaction of the Health Officer
of the city, upon the removal of such within 24 hours after close of the said
auction. Then, the obligation of the bond shall be null and void, otherwise in
full force and effect. The bond shall be either in cash or by a surety bond
issued by a reputable insurance company.
(1960 Code, § 7-2-1) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
PAWNBROKERS
§ 113.090 DEFINITION; LICENSE.
   (A)   A PAWNBROKER is any individual, firm, corporation, business,
partnership or other entity, whether or not currently in operation, which loans
money on deposit or pledge of physically delivered personal property, other
than property the ownership of which is subject to legal dispute, securities,
printed evidence of indebtedness or printed evidence of ownership of the
personal property or who deals in the purchase of such property on condition of
selling the property back again at a stipulated price. The business of a
pawnbroker does not include the lending of money on deposit or pledge of the
title to property.
   (B)   No person, persons, business, corporation, partnership or other entity
shall engage in the business of pawnbroker within the city without a license.
Application for a pawnbroker’s license shall be made as provided by the
licensing provisions of this chapter and any such application shall also state
the number of employees intended to be engaged therein. The Chief of Police of
the city or his or her designee or any other officer or agent designated by the
Chief of Police shall investigate each licensee applicant and shall report in
writing whether or not such applicant is a person of good character. No license
shall be issued to any person, partnership, corporation or other entity, if any
owner, manager, partner, officer, director or any shareholder, owning in the
aggregate more than 5% of the shares of stock in the corporation where the
stock is not publically traded and that shareholder has been convicted of any
felony offense or convicted of the offense(s) of possession of stolen goods,
burglary, robbery, theft or who has been convicted of any criminal offense
involving dishonesty or moral turpitude. Every applicant for a pawnbroker’s
license, as well as every owner, partner, manager, officer, director, employee
and, in this case, of a corporate applicant, every shareholder owning in the
aggregate more than 5% of the shares of stock in the corporation where the
stock is not publically traded, shall undergo a criminal background
investigation, which investigation may include fingerprinting, prior to the
issuance of a pawnbroker’s license. The license fee is $500 per year.
(1960 Code, § 7-2-2) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995; Ord. 7752, passed 3-3-2014)
Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.091 RECORD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker shall keep a standard record book that has been
approved by the County Sheriff. At the time of each and every loan or taking of
a pledge, an accurate account and description, in the English language, of all
the goods, articles and other things pawned or pledged, the amount of money,
value or thing loaned thereon, the time of pledging the same, the rate of
interest to be paid on such loan, and the name and residence of the person
making such pawn or pledge shall be printed, typed or written in ink in the
record book. Such entry shall include the serial number or identification
number of items received which bear such number. Except for items purchased
from dealers possessing a federal employee identification number who have
provided a receipt to the pawnbroker, every pawnbroker shall also record in his
or her book, an accurate account and description, in the English language, of
all goods, articles and other things purchased or received for the purpose of
resale or loan collateral by the pawnbroker from any source, not in the course
of a pledge or loan, the time of such purchase or receipt and the name and
address of the person or business which sold or delivered such goods, articles
or other things to the pawnbroker. No entry in such book shall be erased,
mutilated or changed. Every pawnbroker shall require identification to be shown
him by each person pledging or pawning any goods, articles or other things to
the pawnbroker. If the identification shown is a driver’s license or a state
identification card issued by the Secretary of State and contains a photograph
of the person being identified, only one form of identification must be shown.
If the identification shown is not a driver’s license or a state identification
card issued by the Secretary of State and does not contain a photograph, two
forms of identification must be shown and one of the two forms of
identification must include his or her residence address. These forms of
identification shall include, but not be limited to, any of the following:
driver’s license, Social Security card, utility bill, employee or student
identification card, credit card or a civic, union or professional association
membership card.
   (B)   Records maintained by pawnbrokers shall be confidential, and no
disclosure of pawnbroker records shall be made except disclosures authorized by
this subchapter or ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction. No record
transferred to the city shall be improperly disclosed; provided that, use of
those records as evidence of a felony or misdemeanor shall be a proper purpose.
The required records, as well as every article or other thing of value so
pawned or pledged, shall at all times be open to the inspection of the City
Police Department. Furthermore, the required records and pawn tickets shall be
maintained for a period of three years after the date on which the record or
ticket was prepared. It shall be the duty of every pawnbroker to report to the
police any article pledged with him or her or which is sought to be pledged
with him or her if he or she shall have the reason to believe that the article
was stolen or lost and found by the person attempting to pledge it in the case
of a lost article.
(1960 Code, § 7-2-2) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995; Ord. 7216, passed 1-5-2009;
Ord. 7752, passed 3-3-2014) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.092 PROHIBITED LOCATIONS; RESTRICTED NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   (A)   No establishment requiring a license under this subchapter shall be
located in the special service area, as defined by the special service areas,
Ord. 3325. Furthermore, the city hereby restricts the number of pawnbrokers in
the city to two. Present pawn brokers with existing businesses in the city in
excess of two as prescribed in this subchapter are hereby grandfathered.
   (B)   However, the license shall only be valid for the premises for which
the license was issued and may not be transferred to another location within
the special service area.
   (C)   No person or premises which has a pawnbrokers license shall be
entitled to receive a secondhand dealers license or a resale/consignment
license.
   (D)   Any business defined in §
113.091 of this chapter shall utilize surveillance digital color video cameras
during the business hours. Surveillance cameras shall be positioned so as to
record and video tape the image of all persons entering the business and all
persons approaching within five feet of the cash register or business counter
where articles are pledged or sold.
(1960 Code, § 7-2-2) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995; Ord. 5462, passed 9-5-1995;
Ord. 7216, passed 1-5-2009; Ord. 7752, passed 3-3-2014) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.093 DAILY REPORT.
   It shall be the duty of every pawnbroker to make out and deliver to the
Police Chief, on each day before the hours of 12:00 p.m., a legible and exact
copy from the standard record book, as required in this subchapter, that lists
all personal property and any other valuable thing received on deposit or
purchased during the preceding day, including the exact time when received or
purchased, and a description of the person or person by whom left in pledge, or
from whom the same were purchased.
(1960 Code, § 7-2-2) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995; Ord. 7752, passed 3-3-2014)
Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.094 RATE OF PERCENTAGE ALLOWED; CONTRACT DISCLOSURES; CHARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker to charge or collect a greater
benefit or percentage upon money advanced, and for the use and forbearance
thereof, than the rate of 3% per month. Nothing in this subchapter shall be
construed so as to conflict with the law pertaining to usury and the person
receiving money so advanced may hold such moneys to pay any fees in addition to
interest as herein provided.
   (B)   Each pawnbroker, when making a loan under this subchapter, must
disclose in printed form on the pawn contract the following information to the
persons receiving the loan:
      (1)   The amount of money advanced, which must be designated as the
amount financed;
      (2)   The maturity date of the pawn, which must be at least 30 days after
the date of the pawn;
      (3)   The total pawn interest and service charge payable on the maturity
date, which must be designated as the finance charge;
      (4)   The total of payments that must be paid to redeem the pledged goods
on the maturity date, which must be designated as the total of payments; and
      (5)   The annual percentage rate, computed according to the regulations
adopted by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System under the
Federal Truth in Lending Act.
   (C)   Each pawnbroker may contract for and receive a monthly finance charge
including interest and fees not to exceed one-fifth of the loan amount, as set
forth herein, for appraising, investigating title, storing and insuring the
collateral, closing the loan, making daily reports to local law enforcement
officers including enhanced computerized reporting, complying with regulatory
requirements, and for other expenses and losses of every nature whatsoever and
for all other services. Such fees, when made and collected, shall not be deemed
interest for any purpose of law. Every pawnbroker shall at all times have and
keep this subchapter printed in the English language and framed and posted in a
prominent and conspicuous position in his or her place of business, so that the
same shall be plainly legible and visible to all persons depositing or pledging
property with such pawnbroker.
(1960 Code, § 7-2-2) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995; Ord. 7752, passed 3-3-2014)
Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.095 SIGNED MEMORANDUM, CONTRACT OR NOTE.
   Every pawnbroker shall, at the time of making any advancement or loan,
deliver to the person pawning or pledging any property, a memorandum, contract
or note signed by him or her containing an accurate account and description, in
the English language, of all the goods, articles or other things pawned or
pledged, the amount of money, the time of pledging the same, the rate of
interest to be paid on the loan, the name and residence of the person making
the pawn or pledge and the amount of any fees as specified in §
113.093 of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 7-2-2) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995; Ord. 7752, passed 3-3-2014)
Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.096 REPLACEMENT OF ARTICLES OF PROPERTY; INSURANCE.
   In the event that any articles or property pledged are lost or rendered
inoperable, the pawnbroker shall replace the articles or property with
identical articles or property; except that, if the pawnbroker cannot
reasonably obtain identical articles or property, the pawnbroker shall replace
the articles or property with like articles or property. No pawnbroker shall
conduct business in the state, unless the pawnbroker maintains insurance
coverage covering all hazards equal to at least two times the aggregate value
of the outstanding loans for items held in pawn. Such insurance shall be
obtained from an insurance company authorized to do business in the state.
(1960 Code, § 7-2-2) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995; Ord. 7752, passed 3-3-2014)
§ 113.097 TRANSACTIONS WITH PROHIBITED PARTIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker, or its agent or employee, to
purchase any item or to take or receive any pawn or pledge in advancement of
any loan from a person who is under the age of 18 years. It shall be further
unlawful for any pawnbroker to purchase or take any article in pawn or pledge
from any person appearing to be intoxicated or under the influence of any drug
or controlled substance or from any person known to have been convicted of
theft, burglary, deceptive practices, robbery or armed robbery. It shall
further be the duty of every pawnbroker, or agent or employee thereof, to
return any purchased, pawned or pledged or sold property to the rightful owner
of such property without any service charge and without repayment of the
payment of the money advanced by the pawnbroker.
(1960 Code, § 7-2-2) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995; Ord. 7752, passed 3-3-2014)
Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.098 HOLD ORDER.
   (A)   For the purposes of this subchapter, HOLD ORDER means a written legal
instrument issued to a pawnbroker by a city police officer, ordering the
pawnbroker to retain physical possession of pledged goods in the possession of
the pawnbroker or property purchased by and in the possession of the pawnbroker
and not to return, sell or otherwise dispose of such property as such property
is believed to be misappropriated goods.
   (B)   Upon written notice from a city police officer indicating that
property in the possession of a pawnbroker and subject to a hold order is
needed for the purpose of furthering a criminal investigation and prosecution,
the pawnbroker shall release the property subject to the hold order to the
custody of the city police officer for such purpose and the officer shall
provide a written acknowledgment that the property has been released to the
officer. The release of the property to the custody of the city police officer
shall not be considered a waiver or release of the pawnbroker’s property rights
or interest in the property.
   (C)   Upon completion of the criminal investigation, the property shall be
returned to the pawnbroker who consented to its release; except that, if the
city police officer has not completed the criminal investigation within 120
days after its release, the officer shall immediately return the property to
the pawnbroker or obtain and furnish to the pawnbroker a warrant for the
continued custody of the property. The pawnbroker shall not release or dispose
of the property, except pursuant to a court order or the expiration of the
holding period of the hold order, including all extensions.
   (D)   (1)   In cases where criminal charges have been filed and the property
may be needed as evidence, the prosecuting attorney shall notify the pawnbroker
in writing. The notice shall contain the case number, the style of the case and
a description of the property.
      (2)   The pawnbroker shall hold such property until receiving notice of
the disposition of the case from the prosecuting attorney. The prosecuting
attorney shall notify the pawnbroker and claimant in writing within 15 days
after the disposition of the case.
(1960 Code, § 7-2-2) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995; Ord. 7752, passed 3-3-2014)
§ 113.099 COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAW.
   In addition to the requirements in this subchapter, every pawnbroker shall
comply with all applicable federal and state laws, including, but not limited
to, those laws related to the pawn, pledge, purchase for resale and sale/resale
of any stun gun or taser, pistol, revolver or other firearm.
(1960 Code, § 7-2-2) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995; Ord. 7752, passed 3-3-2014)
Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §
113.006 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than $100 and no
more than $1,000.
(1960 Code, § 7-2-12)
   (C)   Newspaper or advertising boxes violating any of the requirements of §
113.007 of this chapter shall be removed by the city. Confiscated boxes may be
retrieved by the owner only after paying a fee of $50 per box to reimburse the
city for the cost of removing and storing the boxes.
(1960 Code, § 7-22-7)
   (D)   Any person violating any provision of §§
113.020 through
113.030 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $500,
or shall be imprisoned in the county jail for not less than ten days and not
more than six months, or both.
(1960 Code, § 7-5-12)
   (E)   Any person violating §
113.063(F) of this chapter shall be subject to the fine of $10 per day for said
violation.
(1960 Code, § 7-8-4)
(Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995; Ord. 5771, passed 8-4-1997; Ord. 6033, passed 7-
17-2000; Ord. 7258, passed 4-20-2009)
CHAPTER 114: JUNK DEALERS; SCAVENGERS
Section
Scavengers
   
114.01   License
   
114.02   Fee
   
114.03   Bond
   
114.04   Dumping grounds
   
114.05   Receptacles
   
114.06   Night scavengers
   
114.07   Board of Health reports
   
114.08   Hours of trash collection
   
114.09   Violation
Junk Dealers
   
114.20   Definitions
   
114.21   License
   
114.22   Bond
   
114.23   Inspections
   
114.24   Location
   
114.25   Dealing with minors
   
114.26   Stolen goods
   
114.27   Storage
   
114.28   Register
   
114.29   Screening auto yards
 
   
114.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Peddlers and Solicitors, see
Ch. 115
   Special Sales; Personal Sales, see
Ch. 113
   Streets and Sidewalks; Trees, see
Ch. 158
   Zoning, see
Ch. 162
SCAVENGERS
§ 114.01 LICENSE.
   No person shall engage in the business of scavenger for the removal of
garbage, rubbish, offal, swill, carcasses and the like without a license so to
do, approved by the Mayor.
(1960 Code, § 7-12-1) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.02 FEE.
   The license fee for such license is $400 per year.
(1960 Code, § 7-12-2) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 114.03 BOND.
   The person so licensed shall, at the time of the issuing of the license,
file a bond in the penal sum of $500, conditioned that he or she will conduct
the business subject to the rules and regulations of the Board of Health and
the city’s code of ordinances, and indemnify the city against all loss, damage
or expense it may suffer or be put to by reason of any violation of the city
code or the rules and regulations of the Board of Health or otherwise.
(1960 Code, § 7-12-3) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 114.04 DUMPING GROUNDS.
   A scavenger, in removing any garbage, offal or swill, or carcass, shall take
the same at least one-half mile beyond the city limits and so deposit or
dispose of the same that it will not be or become a nuisance to persons
residing in the vicinity. The Superintendent of Streets may designate some
suitable dumping grounds within the corporate limits where scavengers and other
persons may deposit rubbish, dirt or ashes. (Note: state and county landfill
laws should be consulted.)
(1960 Code, § 7-12-4) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.05 RECEPTACLES.
   All scavengers shall, in the gathering up and conveying away of garbage and
other refuse matter, use tight receptacles which are strong and tight so that
no part of the contents or load shall fall, leak or spill therefrom and so
tightly covered as to prevent the same from being offensive.
(1960 Code, § 7-12-5) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.06 NIGHT SCAVENGERS.
   No person in the city shall remove or cause to be removed, the contents of
any privy vault, cesspool or sink, without a permit from the Board of Health.
The permit shall give the name of the scavenger, describe the premises where
the work is to be done, designate the hour when such work will be commenced and
state where the contents thereof will be deposited.
(1960 Code, § 7-12-6) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.07 BOARD OF HEALTH REPORTS.
   Every scavenger shall make return to the Board of Health within two days
after work has been performed, certifying to the number of yards, or loads,
removed from the vault or vaults, designated in such permit, and the place
where the same was deposited. Such contents shall not be deposited or buried
within the city, except upon the written permission of the Board of Health in
such a manner and place as it shall direct. The night scavenger shall use
proper and sufficient disinfectants and deodorants and in all respects conform
with, carry out and obey the rules and regulations of the Board of Health.
(1960 Code, § 7-12-7) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.08 HOURS OF TRASH COLLECTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any private trash hauler to collect trash between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(1960 Code, § 7-12-8) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.09 VIOLATION.
   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any individual, couple or
family to use the license of another individual, couple or family.
(1960 Code, § 7-12-9) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
114.99
JUNK DEALERS
§ 114.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK. Old iron, chain, brass, copper, tin, lead or other base metals, old
rope, old bags, wastepaper, paper clippings, wool scraps, rubber, rags, glass,
empty bottles of different kinds and sizes when the number of each kind or size
is less than one gross and all articles and things discarded or no longer used
as a manufactured article.
   JUNK DEALER. A person who engaged in the business of buying, selling,
bartering or exchanging junk, or who collects, receives, stores or holds in
possession for sale, barter or exchange, any junk whether dealing at wholesale
or at retail or as a junk peddler.
   JUNK PEDDLER. A person who deals in junk, but does not occupy any premises
especially for such business.
   RETAIL JUNK DEALER. A junk dealer whose usual and customary purchases
consist of quantities of less than the amounts customarily purchased by
wholesale junk dealers or in purchases from junk peddlers.
   WHOLESALE JUNK DEALER. A junk dealer who deals in large quantities of junk.
“Dealing in large quantities” means that the customary and usual separate
transactions, both of purchases and sales, consist of the purchase or sale of
carload lots, or lots of ten tone or more of metals, or lots of ten bales or
more of rags, and correspondingly large lots of any other junk dealt in.
Purchasers of old or waste metals in large quantities shall be regarded as
WHOLESALE JUNK DEALERS unless they actually operate within the city a plant for
the smelting or refining of such metals.
(1960 Code, § 7-9-1) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 114.21 LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall engage in business as a junk dealer or junk peddler
without a license. A separate license shall be procured for a wholesale
business and a retail business, and for each separate junk store or junkyard.
The license fee for each such license is $50 per year.
   (B)   Application for such license shall be made in writing to the City
Clerk and shall state the place of business and the location where junk is to
be stored.
(1960 Code, § 7-9-2) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.22 BOND.
   Every person desiring to carry on the business of junk dealer, either
wholesaler or retailer, or junk peddler, shall execute a bond to the city in
the penal sum of $500 conditioned upon the faithful obedience and adherence to
the laws of the United States and the state and the ordinances of the city and
to save harmless any person who may or might be injured by reason of the
granting of a license to operate as a junk dealer. The bond shall be signed by
two qualified sureties, not related in any way to the applicant and the
sureties shall qualify as to his or her fitness. The City Council shall be the
judge of the qualifications of the fitness of the applicant and the
qualifications of the sureties and the adequacy of the bond.
(1960 Code, § 7-9-3) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 114.23 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Every store or yard where junk is dealt in shall be subject to
inspection by the Police and Fire Departments.
   (B)   Inspection shall be made at reasonable hours.
   (C)   The Chief of the Fire Department and the Health Officer shall make
weekly inspections of the stores and yards where junk is dealt in.
(1960 Code, § 7-9-4) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 114.24 LOCATION.
   No person shall locate, establish, conduct or maintain any junk store or
junkyard in the city on any lot in any square block in which two-thirds of the
property in the square block is used exclusively for residence purposes; or
within 200 feet of any buildings used exclusively for residence purposes
without the written consent of the owners of at least a majority of the
property with a radius of 200 feet of the location of the junk store or yard.
Measurement shall be from the lot line.
(1960 Code, § 7-9-5) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.25 DEALING WITH MINORS.
   No junk dealer or peddler shall within the city purchase any goods, articles
or thing, except old rags and wastepaper, from any minor without a written
consent of the parent or guardian of such minor.
(1960 Code, § 7-9-6) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.26 STOLEN GOODS.
   Every junk dealer or peddler who shall receive or be in possession of any
goods, articles or things of value which may have been lost or stolen, or
alleged to have been lost or stolen, shall upon demand to view or examine the
same, forthwith produce such goods, articles or things to the Mayor or any
member of the Police Department.
(1960 Code, § 7-9-7) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.27 STORAGE.
   A junk dealer or peddler shall not store, keep or pile, or cause to be
stored, kept or piled any junk, old rags, old paper or bagging, old iron,
brass, copper, tin, lead or empty bottles in the city within 100 feet from any
building used for habitation, business, factory or the like.
(1960 Code, § 7-9-8) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.28 REGISTER.
   It shall be the duty of every junk dealer or peddler to keep a book in which
shall be written at the time of the purchase of any article or thing in the way
of business, an accurate description of the article or thing purchased, the
price paid therefor, the precise time of making such purchase and the name and
residence of the person from whom such purchase was made. The book shall at all
reasonable times be open to the inspection of the Mayor or any member of the
Police Department.
(1960 Code, § 7-9-9) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.29 SCREENING AUTO YARDS.
   No person shall store, keep or pile any vehicles or parts of vehicles
intended for salvage or junking on any premises in the city outside of any
building or enclosure so as to be visible from any street, alley or adjacent
premises.
(1960 Code, § 7-9-10) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision in §
114.08 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $10, nor more than $500,
for each offense.
(1960 Code, § 7-12-8) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
CHAPTER 115: ITINERANT MERCHANTS, MOBILE COMMERCE VENDORS,
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   License requirement and conditions
   
115.03   Application
   
115.04   Standards for issuance
   
115.05   Revocation procedure
   
115.06   Standards for revocation
   
115.07   Appeal procedure
   
115.08   Exhibition of identification
   
115.09   City policy on soliciting
   
115.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
115.11   Duty of solicitors
   
115.12   Uninvited soliciting prohibited
   
115.13   Time limit on soliciting
   
115.14   Record of sales
   
115.15   Failure to obtain license; holding of goods
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, mobile commerce vendor, peddler or solicitor as defined in this
section.
   FOODSTUFFS. Any meat, poultry, fish, seafood, vegetables, milk, dairy
products (including ice-cream, popsicles, gelato, etc.) and other food items
and non-alcoholic beverages that are pre-packaged for sale, whether fresh,
frozen or sold in cans, bottles, boxes, cartons or other containers, but
excluding prepared food as defined herein.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes but is not
restricted to tangible personal property, wares and prepared food, but
excluding foodstuffs as defined herein.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee, who
engages in the business of selling goods or foodstuffs as defined herein within
the city and who, in the furtherance of that business, uses any immobilized
building, structure or other fixed location within the city, for a temporary
period of time of less than six months days in any calendar year. Any person
who is unable to produce written documentation of the right to occupy the fixed
location for 30 days or longer to the City Clerk within five days of a request
by the Clerk shall be presumed to be an itinerant merchant. This definition
shall not include a mobile commerce vendor, peddler or solicitor as defined
herein.
   MOBILE COMMERCE VENDOR. Any person, whether as owner, agent or consignee,
who engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who,
in the furtherance of that business, uses a building, structure, vehicle or
other apparatus that is not immobilized for the sale of goods as defined
herein. This definition shall not include a person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler or solicitor as defined herein.
   PEDDLER. Any person selling or attempting to sell any goods, foodstuffs, or
services of any kind and nature, being carried on or transported for immediate
delivery or performance from house to house, building to building, or upon any
street, highway or sidewalk within the city. This definition shall not include
a person who is an itinerant merchant, mobile commerce vendor or solicitor as
defined herein.
   PREPARED FOOD. Any food or non-alcoholic beverage sold or offered for sale
that is cooked or otherwise prepared for immediate consumption, but excluding
foodstuffs as defined herein.
   SOLICITOR. Any person (1) soliciting or attempting to solicit or take
orders, from house to house, building to building, or upon any street, highway
or sidewalk within the city, for any goods, wares or merchandise, foodstuffs,
services, or insurance of any type or description, or other sale of property or
services; or (2) seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing,
or any other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or
nonprofit association, organization, corporation or project. This definition
shall not include a person who is an itinerant merchant, mobile commerce vendor
or peddler as defined herein.
(Ord. 8068-2017, passed 7-17-2017)
§ 115.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall engage in or attempt to engage in the business of an
itinerant merchant, mobile commerce vendor, peddler or solicitor within the
city without first obtaining a license therefore.
   (B)   The following conditions shall apply to each license issued under this
chapter:
      (1)   An itinerant merchant shall only sell goods and foodstuffs
consistent with the regulations contained in this chapter, and no license shall
be issued to an itinerant merchant where the location or premises indicated on
the application for the activity is not zoned to permit retail selling
activity. The location of the sale shall be on private property, outside of the
special services area defined in Ordinance 3325, and shall, in all respects,
comply with all zoning regulations for the district and all building safety
regulations applicable to the property, including but not limited to a seasonal
commercial occupancy permit.
      (2)   A mobile commerce vendor shall only sell goods consistent with the
regulations contained in this chapter and only from a location within the city
upon private property, outside of the special services area defined in
Ordinance 3325, which complies with all zoning and building safety requirements
of this Code, subject to the following restrictions:
         (a)   Mobile commerce vendors may only operate daily between 6:00 a.m.
to 1:00 a.m.
         (b)   Noise from mobile commerce vendors, including but limited to
generators and music, shall not exceed 75 decibels as measured from ten feet
away.
         (c)   Mobile commerce vendors shall collect all trash and debris
resulting from their operations within 100 feet of the vending area.
         (d)   Mobile commerce vendors shall not utilize water, electric or
other city utilities.
         (e)   Mobile commerce vendors selling prepared food shall properly
dispose of any fat, oil or grease generated during its operation in accordance
with applicable law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, mobile commerce vendors may
operate on public property within the city only as part of a city-approved
event under
Chapter 111 of this Code.
      (3)   A peddler shall only sell goods and foodstuffs consistent with the
regulations contained in this chapter and only along the rights-of-way of the
city in the area specified in the application.
      (4)   A solicitor may only sell goods and foodstuffs consistent with the
regulations contained in this chapter and only by means of door-to-door
solicitation.
      (5)   No peddler or solicitor shall remain in the same place or within
reasonably close proximity to the same place except when in the act of
expeditiously showing goods or expeditiously selling goods to or purchasing
goods or taking orders from a customer. Any peddler or commercial solicitor
remaining in the same place or reasonably close proximity to the same place
upon the public right-of-way for longer than five minutes when goods are on
display or available for sale without sales activity shall be presumed not to
be engaged in expeditiously showing goods or expeditiously selling goods to or
purchasing goods or taking orders from a customer.
      (6)   An itinerant merchant, mobile commerce vendor, peddler and
solicitor licensed under this chapter shall possess a certificate of
registration when required by the State of Illinois Retailers Occupation Tax
Act and shall timely pay all required sales tax.
      (7)   No person licensed as an itinerant merchant, mobile commerce
vendor, peddler or solicitor shall violate the conditions, terms, or
limitations of such license.
   (C)    The fee for the license required by this chapter for an itinerant
merchant, a mobile commerce vendor and a peddler shall be $100 per year; the
fee for the license required by this chapter for a solicitor shall be $200 per
year.
   (D)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (E)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire on April 30th
after the date of issuance thereof.
(Ord. 8068-2017, passed 7-17-2017; Ord. 9243-2024, passed 2-4-2024) Penalty,
see §
115.99
§ 115.03 APPLICATION.
   Before a license may be issued under this chapter, a written sworn
application signed by the applicant shall be submitted to the City Clerk. The
application shall contain at minimum the following information:
   (A)   The name of the applicant; if the applicant is a corporation, the name
of the officers of the corporation; if the applicant is a partnership, the
names of all partners.
   (B)   The name, title, address (including the street address) and telephone
number and FAX number, if any, of the person having immediate supervisory or
management responsibility over the applicant's business that is proposed to be
carried on in the city.
   (C)   The names and ages of all persons who will be selling goods or
foodstuffs under the license.
   (D)   The permanent business address, telephone number and FAX number of the
applicant.
   (E)   The names, ages, permanent address, telephone number, Social Security
number and criminal history for the past four years of each person selling
goods or soliciting business on a door-to-door basis under the license. Each
such person shall submit a criminal history check authorization form with the
application.
   (F)   The local street address and telephone number of the applicant while
the applicant is conducting business within the city.
   (G)   The name and addresses of persons having custody of the applicant's
financial records.
   (H)   The names of municipalities or governmental units to which the
applicant has applied for a license of similar character within the 12 months
prior to the date of application.
   (I)   A copy of the applicant's certificate of registration under the State
of Illinois Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, or such information as the state
requires to sell goods in the state.
   (J)   The applicant's employer number, if any, for reporting to the Internal
Revenue Service.
   (K)   If a motor vehicle is utilized for the sale of prepared food or
foodstuffs, a copy of the health permit.
   (L)   A valid driver's license to operate a motor vehicle.
   (M)   Valid vehicle registration for the vehicle to be used for mobile
commerce or foodstuff vending; and, if applicable, the vehicle being used to
tow a mobile commerce vehicle or a foodstuff vending vehicle.
   (N)   A photograph of the mobile commerce vehicle or foodstuff vending
vehicle.
   (O)   In the case of an itinerant merchant, written evidence of the right to
occupy a specific location at which the sales activity is proposed.
   (P)   In the case of peddlers and commercial solicitors, the boundaries of
the area where peddling or soliciting will be conducted.
   (Q)   The dates upon which the business is proposed to be conducted in the
city.
   (R)   A listing of all other state or city permits already applied for or
issued.
   (S)   Appropriate surety, other bond, or insurance certificate.
(Ord. 8068-2017, passed 7-17-2017)
§ 115.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt, the City Clerk shall refer all applications or
registration statements for peddlers and solicitors to the Police Department
for review or investigation of the representations in applications or
registration statements. In the case of itinerant merchants, the application
shall be referred to the zoning official and building official for review.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall issue a license for an itinerant merchant upon
compliance with the provisions of this chapter unless the applicant's business
would pose a substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general
welfare, and upon compliance with all ordinances applicable to the premises,
including but not limited to all zoning and building safety requirements.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall issue a license for mobile commerce vendor upon
compliance with provisions of this chapter unless the applicant's business
would pose a substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general
welfare, and upon compliance with all ordinances applicable to the premises,
including but not limited to all zoning and building safety requirements.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall issue a license for a peddler upon compliance
with the provisions of this chapter unless the applicant's business would pose
a substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare,
and upon receiving the report of the Police Department finding that no person
selling for such peddler has been convicted of violating any law or ordinance
based upon charges concerning the use of sales, subscription or soliciting
methods involving disorderly conduct, assault or battery, trespass to land,
undue pressure, misrepresentation and false or misleading statements, fraud, or
felonies involving bodily harm or theft, or any ordinances or laws related to
licensing or the payment of sales tax.
   (E)   The City Clerk shall issue a license for a solicitor upon compliance
with the provisions of this chapter unless the applicant's business would pose
a substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare,
and upon receiving the report of the Police Department finding that no person
selling for such solicitor has been convicted of violating any law or ordinance
based upon charges concerning the use of sales, subscription or soliciting
methods involving disorderly conduct, assault or battery, trespass to land,
undue pressure, misrepresentation and false or misleading statements, fraud, or
felonies involving bodily harm or theft, or any ordinances or laws related to
licensing or the payment of sales tax.
   (F)   Permits authorized to be issued pursuant to this chapter may be
suspended, revoked or refused to be issued by the City Clerk upon a
determination that an applicant or licensee does not comply with the
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 8068-2017, passed 7-17-2017)
§ 115.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE,
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the City
Clerk after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
115.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. This notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his or her last known
address, at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(Ord. 8068-2017, passed 7-17-2017)
§ 115.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license;
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
(Ord. 8068-2017, passed 7-17-2017)
§ 115.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
115.04 or
115.06 shall have the right to appeal to the City Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the City Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to the person's last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The City Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for the hearing shall be given to the
person in the same manner as provided in §
115.05.
   (B)   The order of the City Council after the hearing shall be final.
(Ord. 8068-2017, passed 7-17-2017)
§ 115.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Each peddler and solicitor or their agents and employees shall at all
times while peddling or soliciting within the city carry upon his/her person
the registration certificate identification/license required by this chapter,
and shall exhibit the certificate or license upon request to any law
enforcement officer or any person upon whom he/she calls.
   (B)   Each itinerant merchant and mobile commerce vendor shall prominently
display the registration certificate identification/license required by this
chapter so that it is plainly visible at a distance of five feet.
(Ord. 8068-2017, passed 7-17-2017) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.09 CITY POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city that the occupants of the
residences in the city shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall
be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
(Ord. 8068-2017, passed 7-17-2017)
§ 115.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
"NO SOLICITORS INVITED"
   (B)   The letters shall be at least one-third-inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
(Ord. 8068-2017, passed 7-17-2017)
§ 115.11 DUTY OF SOLICITORS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the city upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
115.10 if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states "NO SOLICITORS INVITED," then the solicitor,
whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the
premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
(Ord. 8068-2017, passed 7-17-2017)
§ 115.12 UNINVITED SOLICITING PROHIBITED.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of the residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
115.10 above.
(Ord. 8068-2017, passed 7-17-2017) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.13 TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a
residence located thereon, or rap or knock upon any door, or create any sound
in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the occupant of the
residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the occupant thereof
and engage in soliciting, prior to 9:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m. of any weekday
or Saturday, or at any time on a Sunday or on a state or National holiday.
(Ord. 8068-2017, passed 7-17-2017) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.14 RECORD OF SALES.
   Each itinerant merchant, mobile commerce vendor, peddler and solicitor
shall, if requested by the City Clerk, certify under oath to the City Clerk the
total amount of sales in the city and send a copy of the merchant's report of
sales to the state under the Retailers Occupation Tax Act. Such information
shall be delivered to the City Clerk within 28 days after any request. The City
Clerk shall be entitled to examine the records of such merchant in order to
verify the proper collection of such taxes.
(Ord. 8068-2017, passed 7-17-2017)
§ 115.15 FAILURE TO OBTAIN LICENSE; HOLDING OF GOODS.
   (A)   Any person who makes sales as a transient merchant without having
first obtained a license therefor under this chapter or sells in violation of
the terms of the license shall apply or reapply for a license under this
chapter and in addition to penalties provided in §
115.99 for violation of this chapter, pay the additional fee called for by
ordinance.
   (B)   Any law enforcement officer who finds any person selling goods as a
transient merchant without possessing a license therefor or in violation of the
terms of such a license may take into possession the goods being sold and the
inventory of such person. Such goods shall be held in the custody of the city
until such person selling without a license or in violation of the terms of
such license obtains a license or a license, as the case may be.
   (C)   If the goods being held pursuant to division (B) above are not claimed
within 60 days after they are taken into possession by the city, the City
Attorney may proceed to seek an order for the sale of property pursuant to the
Transient Merchant Act of 1987 of the State of Illinois (225 ILCS 465/1 et
seq.).
   (D)   The provisions of this section are in addition to, and not in lieu of,
the penalties set forth in §
115.99.
(Ord. 8068-2017, passed 7-17-2017) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$750. Each day's violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 8068-2017, passed 7-17-2017)
CHAPTER 116: VEHICLE-RELATED BUSINESSES
Section
Public Garages
   
116.01   Definition
   
116.02   License
   
116.03   License application
   
116.04   License fee
   
116.05   License authority
   
116.06   Maintenance and inspection
   
116.07   Smoking
Taxicabs
   
116.20   Definitions
   
116.21   Certificate of public convenience and necessity; application
   
116.22   Public hearing
   
116.23   Certificate issuance
   
116.24   Bond of liability insurance
   
116.25   License fees
   
116.26   Certificate transfer
   
116.27   Revocation or suspension of certificate
   
116.28   Taxi driver regulations; driver’s license
   
116.29   Vehicles, equipment and maintenance; license
   
116.30   Taxicab designations
   
116.31   Fare; receipt; refusal to pay
   
116.32   Passengers; solicitation, number and the like
   
116.33   Open stands; callboxes
   
116.34   Service; central place of business
   
116.35   Manifests
   
116.36   Records
   
116.37   Accident reports
   
116.38   Service contract reports
   
116.39   Advertising
   
116.40   Enforcement
Pedal Buses
   116.50   Definitions
   116.51   License requirement
   116.52   Qualifications of pedal bus driver
   116.53   Use of pedal bus for crime
   116.54   Pedal bus operation
   116.55   Condition of pedal bus; inspections
   116.56   Pedal bus markings; similar markings prohibited
   116.57   Pedal bus width
   116.58   Pedal bus condition
 
   
116.99   Penalty
PUBLIC GARAGES
§ 116.01 DEFINITION.
   The words PUBLIC GARAGE, as used in this subchapter, shall be held to mean
and are hereby defined as meaning any premises used for housing or care of more
than four motor vehicles, or where any such vehicle is equipped for operation
or repaired or kept for remuneration, hire or sale, not including exposition or
showroom for motor cars.
(1960 Code, § 7-11-1) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 116.02 LICENSE.
   No person shall manage, conduct, operate or carry on the business of a
public garage without first having obtained a license therefor.
(1960 Code, § 7-11-2) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.03 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   The application for such license for the business or managing,
conducting, operating or carrying on a public garage shall specify the location
of the building or place in which it is proposed to keep such public garage,
the construction of such building, the number of stories in such building and
the number of square feet of each of the stories in such building.
   (B)   Every such application shall be approved by the Fire Department and
the Mayor before a license shall be issued.
(1960 Code, § 7-11-3) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 116.04 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual license fee for each public garage shall be $25.
(1960 Code, § 7-11-4) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
2020 S-6 Repl.
§ 116.05 LICENSE AUTHORITY.
   Every person licensed to conduct a public garage shall have the privilege of
managing, conducting, operating or carrying on a private garage within the same
building, structure, premises or enclosure, and shall also have the privilege
of conducting therein the business of an auto repair shop, the business of auto
sales, salesroom for autos and auto accessories and the business of a filling
station without necessity of obtaining additional license. No person conducting
the business of an auto repair shop shall have more than four cars parked
outside his or her building for each service bay that is located within the
building and used for auto repair.
(1960 Code, § 7-11-5) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995; Ord. 6275, passed 5-7-2001)
Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.06 MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION.
   All public garages shall be conducted and maintained in accordance with
provisions of ordinances with regard to fire protection, and shall be inspected
by the Fire Warden or his or her duly authorized representative at least once
every six months.
(1960 Code, § 7-11-6) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.07 SMOKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit smoking in any public garage.
(1960 Code, § 7-11-7) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
116.99
TAXICABS
§ 116.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CALLBOX STAND. A place alongside a street, or elsewhere where the city has
authorized a holder of a certificate of public convenience and necessity to
install a telephone or callbox for the taking of calls and the dispatching of
taxicabs.
   CERTIFICATE. A certificate of public convenience and necessity issued by the
City Clerk, authorizing the holder thereof to conduct a taxicab business in the
city.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. The permission granted by the City Council to a person to
drive a taxicab upon the streets of the city.
   HOLDER. A person to whom a certificate of public convenience and necessity
has been issued.
   OPEN STAND. A public place alongside the curb of a street or elsewhere which
has been designated by the city as reserved exclusively for the use of
taxicabs.
   TAXICAB. A motor vehicle regularly engaged in the business of carrying
passengers for hire, having a seating capacity of less than seven persons and
not operated on a fixed route.
   WAITING TIME. The time when a taxicab is not in motion from the time of
acceptance of a passenger to the time of discharge, but does not include any
time that the taxicab is not in motion if due to any cause other than the
request, act or fault of a passenger.
(1960 Code, § 7-13-1) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 116.21 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY; APPLICATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate or permit a taxicab owned or controlled by him
or her to be operated as a vehicle for hire upon the streets of the city
without a certificate of public convenience and necessity from the City Clerk.
(1960 Code, § 7-13-2)
   (B)   An application for a certificate shall be filed with the City Clerk
upon forms provided by the city. The application shall be verified under oath
and shall furnish the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The financial status of the applicant, including the amounts of all
unpaid judgments against the applicant and the nature of the transaction or
acts giving rise to said judgments;
      (3)   The experience of the applicant in the transportation of
passengers;
      (4)   Any facts which the applicant believes tend to prove that public
convenience and necessity require the granting of certificate;
      (5)   The number of vehicles to be operated or controlled by the
applicant and the location of proposed depots and terminals;
      (6)   The color scheme or insignia to be used to designate the vehicle or
vehicles of the applicant; and
      (7)   Such further information as the City Council may require.
(1960 Code, § 7-13-3)
(Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.22 PUBLIC HEARING.
   Upon the filing of an application for a certificate, the City Clerk shall
fix the time and place for a public hearing thereon. Notice of such hearing
shall be given to the applicant and to all persons to whom certificates of
public convenience and necessity have previously been issued, and shall also be
published in a newspaper published in the city at least ten days before the
hearing. Any interested person may file with the City Clerk a memorandum in
support of or opposition to the issuance of a certificate.
(1960 Code, § 7-13-4) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 116.23 CERTIFICATE ISSUANCE.
   If the City Council finds that further taxicab service in the city is
required by the public convenience and necessity and that the applicant is fit,
willing and able to perform such public transportation and to conform to the
provisions of this subchapter and the rules promulgated by the Council, the
City Clerk shall issue a certificate stating the name and address of the
applicant, the number of vehicles authorized under the certificate and the date
of issuance; otherwise, the application shall be denied. In making its
findings, the Council shall take into consideration the number of taxicabs
already in operation, whether existing transportation is adequate to meet the
public need, the probable effect of increased service on local traffic
conditions and the character, experience and responsibility of the applicant.
(1960 Code, § 7-13-5) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 116.24 BOND OR LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   No certificate shall be issued or continued in operation unless there
is in effect an indemnity bond for each vehicle authorized in the amount of
$50,000 for bodily injury to any one or more persons sustained in the same
accident and $10,000 for property damage resulting from any one accident. The
bond shall inure to the benefit of any person who is injured or who sustains
damage to property proximately caused by the negligence of a holder, his or her
employees or agents. The bond shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk
and shall have a surety thereon, a surety company authorized to do business in
the state.
   (B)   The City Council may allow the holder to file in lieu of the bond, a
liability insurance policy issued by an insurance company authorized to do
business in the state. The police shall conform to the provisions of this
section relating to bonds.
(1960 Code, § 7-13-6) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 116.25 LICENSE FEES.
   No certificate shall be issued or continued in operation unless the holder
has paid a license fee of $100 per year for the right to engage in the taxicab
business. The license fees are for the fiscal year and are in addition to any
other license fees or charges established by proper authority and applicable to
the holder or the vehicles under his or her operation and control.
(1960 Code, § 7-13-7) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 116.26 CERTIFICATE TRANSFER.
   No certificate may be sold, assigned, mortgaged or otherwise transferred
without the consent of the City Council.
(1960 Code, § 7-13-8) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.27 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF CERTIFICATE.
   A certificate may be revoked or suspended by the City Council if the holder
thereof has violated any provision of this subchapter, discontinued operations
for more than 30 days or violated any provision of this code or the laws of the
United States or of the state, the violation of which reflect unfavorably on
the fitness of the holder to offer public transportation. Prior to suspension
or revocation, the holder shall be given notice of the proposed action to be
taken and shall have an opportunity to be heard.
(1960 Code, § 7-13-9) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 116.28 TAXI DRIVER REGULATIONS; DRIVER’S LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   Required. No person shall drive a taxicab for hire upon the
streets of the city and no person who owns or controls a taxicab shall permit
it to be so driven at any time for hire, unless the driver has a taxicab
driver’s license.
      (2)   Application.
         (a)   An application for a taxicab driver’s license shall be filed
with the City Clerk on a form provided by the city. The application shall be
verified under oath and shall be accompanied by:
            1.   Evidence of ownership of a valid driver’s license, as required
by state statute, for the operation of vehicles carrying passengers for hire;
            2.   Two photographs, one to be placed on the license, and one to
be filed with the City Clerk. In addition, each applicant shall submit himself
or herself to the city’s Police Department for a Police Department photograph
and shall, at such time, pay a fee of $1 for the making of such photograph.
This photograph shall remain on file with the Police Department;
            3.   A certificate from a reputable physician, certifying that, in
his or her opinion, the applicant is not afflicted with any disease or
infirmity which might make him or her an unsafe or unsatisfactory driver;
            4.   A list, showing the residence of the applicant for the
previous ten years;
            5.   A statement under oath that the applicant has never been
convicted or charged with a crime, either felony or misdemeanor, as defined by
the Illinois Compiled Statutes;
            6.   Three character references, together with their addresses; and
            7.   License fee for one year.
         (b)   The certificate of a reputable physician, as hereinbefore
required, shall have been issued by such physician not more than 60 days prior
to the application for license, as herein provided.
      (3)   Qualifications. Before any driver’s application is finally passed
upon by the City Council, the applicant shall pass a satisfactory examination
as to his or her knowledge of the city and show that he or she has a current
motor vehicle operator’s permit issued by the state.
      (4)   Police investigation. The Police Department shall record,
fingerprint and conduct an investigation of the applicant for a taxicab
driver’s license. Such police investigation should be conducted both at time of
initial application and prior to all renewals of taxicab driver’s license. A
report of such investigation and copy of the traffic and police record of the
applicant, if any, shall be attached to the application for the consideration
of the City Council.
      (5)   Consideration by Council. The City Council, upon consideration of
the driver’s application shall approve or reject it. If the application is
rejected, the applicant may request a personal appearance before the City
Council to offer evidence why his application should be reconsidered.
      (6)   Issuance and term. Upon approval of a driver’s application, the
City Clerk shall issue a license which shall bear the name, address, color,
age, signature and photograph of the applicant. Such license shall be in effect
for the remainder of the calendar year; provided, however, that, such license
shall automatically expire if the holder thereof ceases to be employed by a
taxicab company which has been issued a certificate of public convenience and
necessity by the city.
      (7)   Fee. The fee for a taxicab driver’s license is $2 for each calendar
year.
      (8)   Display of license. A taxicab driver, while driving a cab, shall
post his or her driver’s license in the taxicab in full view of the passengers.
      (9)   List of drivers, addresses. On the first day of each month, it
shall be the duty of a holder of a certificate of public convenience and
necessity to supply the Chief of Police and the City Clerk with a list of all
drivers, and their addresses, employed by said holder at that time.
(1960 Code, § 7-13-10)
   (B)   The City Clerk may suspend or revoke the driver’s license of any
taxicab driver who fails to comply with the provisions of this subchapter. A
suspension shall be for a period of not more than ten days. A license may not
be revoked unless the driver has received notice and has had an opportunity to
present evidence in his or her behalf.
(1960 Code, § 7-13-11)
(Ord. 2630, passed - -; Ord. 2823, passed - -; Ord. 3087, passed 6-19-1972;
Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.29 VEHICLES, EQUIPMENT AND MAINTENANCE; LICENSE.
   (A)   No taxicab shall be operated unless it bears a state license, duly
issued; and no such cab shall be operated unless it is equipped with proper
brakes, lights, tires, horn, muffler, rear vision mirror, windshield wipers in
good condition. Before a vehicle is used as a taxicab, it shall be inspected by
the Police Department.
   (B)   If the Police Department finds the vehicle meets the above standards,
it shall issue a license so stating, and also stating the authorized seating
capacity of the vehicle. It shall be the duty of the Police Department to
inspect every taxicab so often as may be necessary to see to the enforcement of
the provisions of this section.
   (C)   If a taxicab so inspected shall fail to meet the standards of this
section, the Police Department shall order said taxicab out of service and said
taxicab shall not be returned to service until after the Police Department has
reinspected it to determine if the deficiency so noted has been corrected.
(1960 Code, § 7-13-12) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.30 TAXICAB DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   All taxicabs operated by a holder of a certificate of public
convenience and necessity shall be painted the same color and on the outside of
each rear door, in painted letters, not less than two inches, nor more than
five inches in height, the name of the holder and in addition, may bear any
identifying design approved by the City Council.
   (B)   No taxicab shall be licensed whose color scheme, identifying design,
monogram or insignia to be used thereon, in the opinion of the City Council,
conflicts with or imitates any color scheme, identifying design, monogram or
insignia used on a taxicab already licensed under this subchapter, in such a
manner as to be misleading or tend to deceive or defraud the public.
   (C)   The color scheme, identifying design, monogram or insignia of a
taxicab shall not be changed so as to be, in the opinion of the City Council,
in conflict with or an imitation of a color scheme, identifying design,
monogram or insignia used by any other holder or operator.
(1960 Code, § 7-13-13) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.31 FARE; RECEIPT; REFUSAL TO PAY.
   (A)   Rates.
      (1)   (a)   The holder or a driver of a taxicab shall not charge more
than $2.75 for the first one-tenth mile and $0.15 per one-tenth of each
subsequent mile for transporting a passenger. On trips of less than one mile,
the customer will pay only the metered rates and will not be charged the $2.75
charge.
         (b)   Each extra passenger will be charged an additional $1.
         (c)   Senior citizens will receive a $0.50 discount on each fare.
         (d)   It shall be the duty of the holder or the driver of a taxicab
to, at all times, deliver a passenger from the point of pickup to the point of
destination by following the most direct traffic route. There will be a five-
minute grace period while waiting for a passenger at his or her point of
destination. The holder or driver of a taxicab shall charge $0.25 per
additional minute not to exceed $15 per hour while waiting for a passenger.
      (2)   The holder shall record any change and reason therefor with the
City Clerk 30 days prior to the effective date of any such changes. The City
Council shall review the rate change to see that the holder is operating in the
best interests of the public.
      (3)   A rate card setting forth the authorized rates of fare shall be
displayed in each taxicab in view of the passengers.
(1960 Code, § 7-13-14)
   (B)   Receipt. The driver of a taxicab shall, upon demand by a passenger,
render to such passenger a receipt for the amount charged, by a specially
prepared receipt on which shall be recorded the name of the owner, license
number or motor number, charges and date of transaction.
(1960 Code, § 7-13-15)
   (C)   Refusal to pay fare. No person shall refuse to pay the legal fare of
any taxicab after having hired the same. No person shall hire any taxicab with
intent to defraud the person from whom it is hired of the value of such
service.
(1960 Code, § 7-13-16)
   (D)   Senior citizen’s discount. Each senior citizen using a taxicab shall
be entitled to a discount of $0.50 from his or her fare.
(1960 Code, § 7-13-32)
(1960 Code, § 7-13-1) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995; Ord. 5975, passed 4-19-1999)
Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.32 PASSENGERS; SOLICITATION, NUMBER AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Solicitation.
      (1)   No driver of a taxicab shall solicit passengers, except when
sitting in the driver’s compartment of the taxicab or while standing
immediately adjacent to the curbside thereof. The driver shall remain in the
driver’s compartment or immediately adjacent to his or her vehicle at all times
when such vehicle is upon the public street; except that, a driver may be
absent from his or her taxicab for not more than 15 consecutive minutes, when
necessary, and may assist passengers into or out of the vehicle.
      (2)   No driver shall solicit patronage in a loud or annoying tone of
voice, or by a sign, or annoy any person or obstruct the movement of any
persons, or follow any person for the purpose of soliciting patronage.
      (3)   No driver shall cruise in search of passengers, except in such
areas and at such times as shall be designated by the City Council. Such areas
and times shall only be designated when the Council finds that taxicab cruising
would not congest traffic or be dangerous to pedestrians and other vehicles.
      (4)   No driver shall solicit passengers at the terminal of any other
common carrier, nor at any intermediate points along any established route of
any other common carrier.
(1960 Code, § 7-13-17)
   (B)   Additional passengers. No driver shall permit any person other than
the first person to engage the taxicab to ride in the taxicab unless the person
first employing the taxicab consents to the acceptance of the additional
passenger or passengers.
(1960 Code, § 7-13-18)
   (C)   Number of passengers. No driver shall permit more persons to be
carried in a taxicab as passengers than the rated seating capacity of the
taxicab as stated in the license for the vehicle issued by the Police
Department. A child in arms shall not be counted as a passenger.
(1960 Code, § 7-13-19)
   (D)   Refusal to carry passengers. A driver shall convey any orderly person
or persons, upon request, unless previously engaged, or unable or forbidden by
the provisions of this subchapter to do so.
(1960 Code, § 7-13-20)
   (E)   Soliciting for others. A driver of a taxicab shall not solicit
business for any hotel, or attempt to divert patronage from one hotel to
another. A driver shall not sell intoxicating liquor or solicit business for
any house of ill repute or use his or her vehicle for any purpose other than
the transporting of passengers.
(1960 Code, § 7-13-21) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.33 OPEN STANDS; CALLBOXES.
   (A)   (1)   The Police Department, with the consent of the City Council, may
establish open stands in such places upon the streets as it deems necessary for
the use of taxicabs operated in the city. The Department shall prescribe the
number of cabs that may occupy such open stands. The Department shall not
create an open stand in front of any place of business where the abutting
property owners object to the same or where such stand would tend to create a
traffic hazard.
      (2)   Open stands shall be used by the different drivers on a first-come
first-served basis. A driver shall pull onto the open stand from the rear and
shall advance forward as the cabs ahead pull off. Drivers shall stay within
five feet of their cabs; they shall not solicit passengers, or engage in loud
or boisterous talk while at an open stand. A passenger may engage any cab of
his or her choice that is parked at an open stand.
(1960 Code, § 7-13-22)
   (B)   (1)   The Police Department may establish callbox stands upon the
streets in such places as, in its discretion, it deems proper. A holder
desiring to establish a callbox stand shall make written application to the
Police Department. The applicant must attach to the application, the written
approval of the abutting property owners of the space, consenting to the
creation of such stand. Upon the filing of the application, the Police
Department shall make an investigation of the traffic conditions at such place
and shall thereafter file its written recommendation to the City Council. The
Council shall then either grant or refuse the application. When a callbox stand
has been established, it shall be used solely by the holder to whom the same
was granted and his or her agents and employees. No holder may obtain a permit
for more than one callbox stand within the downtown business area.
      (2)   A holder operating a callbox stand may have a starter on duty at
such stand for the purpose of assisting in the loading or unloading of
passengers from cabs for receiving calls and dispatching cabs, and for
soliciting passengers at such stand. The words AT SUCH STAND shall mean that
part of the sidewalk immediately adjacent to and of equal length with such
callbox stand. A starter or other employee shall not go beyond the area herein
designated for the purpose of soliciting passengers or assisting them in
boarding cabs.
(1960 Code, § 7-13-23)
   (C)   Drivers of vehicles other than taxicabs shall not occupy any space
established as an open stand or callbox stand.
(1960 Code, § 7-13-24)
(Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.34 SERVICE; CENTRAL PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   Persons engaged in the taxicab business in the city shall render an overall
service to the public. Holders shall maintain a central place of business and
keep the same open 24 hours a day for the purpose of receiving calls and
dispatching cabs. They shall answer all calls received by them for services
inside the corporate limits of the city as soon as they can do so and, if such
service cannot be rendered within a reasonable time, they shall notify the
prospective passengers how long it will be before the call can be answered and
give the reason therefor.
(1960 Code, § 7-13-25) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.35 MANIFESTS.
   Every driver shall maintain a daily manifest upon which are recorded all
trips made each day, showing time and place or origin and destination of each
trip and amount of fare. The completed manifests shall be returned to the
holder by the driver at the conclusion of his or her tour of duty. The forms
for the manifest shall be furnished to the driver by the holder and shall be of
a character approved by the City Council. Every holder shall retain and
preserve driver’s manifests for the calendar year next preceding the current
calendar year. The manifests shall be available to the Council and the Police
Department.
(1960 Code, § 7-13-26) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.36 RECORDS.
   Every holder shall keep accurate records of receipts, expenses, capital
expenditures and such other operating information as may be required by the
City Council. The records and other data required by this subchapter shall be
readily accessible for examination by the Council.
(1960 Code, § 7-13-27) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.37 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   An accident arising from or occurring in connection with the operation of a
taxicab which results in death or injury to any person, or damage to any
vehicle or property in an amount exceeding the amount of $100, shall be
reported within 24 hours from the time of occurrence to the Police Department
on a form of report furnished by the Police Department.
(1960 Code, § 7-13-28) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.38 SERVICE CONTRACT REPORTS.
   A holder shall file with the City Clerk, copies of contracts, agreements,
arrangements, memoranda or other writings relating to the furnishing of taxicab
service to any hotel, theater, hall, public resort, railway station or other
place of public gathering, whether such arrangement is made with the holder or
any firm with which the holder may be interested or connected. Failure to file
such copies within seven days shall be sufficient cause for the revocation of a
certificate of any offending holder or the cancellation of any cabstand and
privileges.
(1960 Code, § 7-13-29) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.39 ADVERTISING.
   Subject to the rules and regulations of the City Council, a holder may
permit advertising matter to be affixed in or on his or her taxicabs.
(1960 Code, § 7-13-30) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 116.40 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department shall report violations of this subchapter to the City
Council, which will order or take appropriate action.
(1960 Code, § 7-13-31) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
PEDAL BUSES
§ 116.50 DEFINITIONS.
   PEDAL BUS. Any single-unit device upon which any person may ride, propelled
by human power through a belt, chain, or gears, having four or more wheels, and
designed and constructed in such a manner as to engage in the business of
carrying groups of passengers for hire as agreed by pre-arranged contract.
   PEDAL BUS BUSINESS. The business of operating a pedal bus for the
recreational or physical transportation of groups of the general public as
agreed by pre-arranged contract.
   PEDAL BUS DRIVER. The person in actual physical control of the pedal bus.
(Ord. 9346-2024, passed 11-18-2024)
§ 116.51 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   No person shall engage in or attempt to engage in a pedal bus business
without first obtaining a license therefore.
   (B)   No pedal bus business shall violate the conditions, terms, or
limitations of such license and this chapter.
   (C)   The fee for the license required by this chapter for a pedal bus
business shall be $100 per year.
   (D)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (E)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire on April 30th
after the date of issuance thereof.
   (F)   A pedal bus license authorizes the consumption of alcoholic liquor
brought aboard a pedal bus by a patron over the age of 21. The following
provisions shall apply:
      (1)   Alcoholic liquor may be transported and consumed aboard pedal buses
properly licensed under this chapter;
      (2)   A licensee commits an offense if he or she provides alcoholic
liquor to pedal bus passengers for a fee or as part of the passenger transport
service;
      (3)   A licensee commits an offense if he or she provides or stocks any
alcoholic liquor aboard the pedal bus;
      (4)   Alcoholic liquor consumed aboard a pedal bus may only be consumed
in plastic or paper cups;
      (5)   Alcoholic liquor may be consumed only when the passenger is in or
on the pedal bus and only when otherwise permitted by all applicable local and
state laws and regulations, including but not limited to all other applicable
provisions of the Illinois Municipal Code and the laws of the State of
Illinois;
      (6)   The pedal bus operator and driver may not allow consumption of
alcoholic beverages by persons under the age of 21. Possession and/or
consumption of alcoholic liquor by any person under age 21 is prohibited;
      (7)   Licensees under this chapter may uncork, pour, serve or otherwise
control the consumption of the alcoholic liquor;
      (8)   Any employee responsible for serving alcoholic liquor or checking
identification must be appropriately trained in accordance with state law and
local ordinance;
      (9)   Licensees shall provide to the city a certificate of insurance
reflecting coverage for dram shop or equivalent liability insurance.
(Ord. 9346-2024, passed 11-18-2024) Penalty, see 116.99
§ 116.52 QUALIFICATIONS OF PEDAL BUS DRIVER.
   No person shall drive a pedal bus or be permitted to do so if they are not:
   (A)   A duly licensed driver in the State of Illinois;
   (B)   Familiar with local traffic laws and ordinances; and
   (C)   The age of 21 years or older.
(Ord. 9346-2024, passed 11-18-2024)
§ 116.53 USE OF PEDAL BUS FOR CRIME.
   No person shall knowingly permit any pedal bus to be used in the
perpetration of a crime.
(Ord. 9346-2024, passed 11-18-2024) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.54 PEDAL BUS OPERATION.
   (A)   No pedal bus driver shall transport passengers while using a wireless
device unless said pedal bus is not in motion.
   (B)   No pedal bus shall be driven in weather conditions that pose an
unreasonable safety risk to the driver or passengers of the pedal bus, or to
motorists or pedestrians.
   (C)   For the purposes of immediately loading and unloading passengers, a
pedal bus may remain standing upon a street if the pedal bus is in any legal
parking stall, designated loading zone, or any other location that does not
impede pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
   (D)   No pedal bus shall be left unattended by the pedal bus driver unless
legally parked in a legal parking stall.
   (E)   No pedal bus driver shall operate a pedal bus on a street with a
posted speed limit of 35 miles per hour or greater, except for the purpose of
crossing that street.
   (F)   No pedal bus driver, while driving a pedal bus, shall stop on a street
with a posted speed limit of 35 miles per hour or greater in order to pick up
or drop off passengers.
   (G)   No pedal bus driver shall drive a pedal bus on a sidewalk.
   (H)   No pedal bus driver shall drive a pedal bus in a way that obstructs
the flow of pedestrian traffic, except for the time period necessary to pick up
or drop off passengers.
   (I)   Pedal buses shall only be operated on fixed routes, pre-approved in
writing by the City Clerk, on streets with a posted speed limit of 35 miles per
hour or less, with the exception of crossing a street with a posted speed limit
greater than 35 miles per hour in a legal manner.
(Ord. 9346-2024, passed 11-18-2024) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.55 CONDITION OF PEDAL BUS; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   No license to engage in the business of driving a pedal bus shall be
issued unless:
      (1)   The pedal bus is equipped with seats for the driver and all
passengers;
      (2)   The pedal bus provides a hood or cover to protect passengers from
the elements;
      (3)   The pedal bus is equipped with hydraulic or mechanical disc brakes,
a battery-operated or generator-operated headlight and taillight, both front
and rear turn signals, tires, and bell or horn;
      (4)   The pedal bus has been inspected and found by the City Manager or
her/his designee to be in clean, sanitary, safe and good mechanical condition
for the transportation of passengers; and
      (5)   A written certificate of the inspection required by this section is
filed with the City Manager or her/his designee.
   (B)   Every pedal bus in operation shall be inspected at the beginning of
the license year to determine if such pedal bus meets the requirements of this
subchapter. The inspection required may be conducted by the city or by such
duly qualified persons as the Mayor may direct.
   (C)   Additional inspections may be required as often as the apparent
condition of the pedal bus warrants.
(Ord. 9346-2024, passed 11-18-2024) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.56 PEDAL BUS MARKINGS; SIMILAR MARKINGS PROHIBITED.
   All pedal buses shall have painted conspicuously upon the unit the name of
the pedal bus business as provided to the Mayor or her/his designee in visible
lettering at least three inches in height.
(Ord. 9346-2024, passed 11-18-2024) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.57 PEDAL BUS WIDTH.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a pedal bus that is wider than 75 inches at
its widest point.
(Ord. 9346-2024, passed 11-18-2024) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.58 PEDAL BUS CONDITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, or cause to be driven, a pedal
bus that is not in good working order.
(Ord. 9346-2024, passed 11-18-2024) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
116.01 through
116.07 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $5, nor more than $200, for
each offense, and every day that any violation shall occur shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense.
(1960 Code, § 7-11-8)
      (2)   Any person parking cars in excess of the numbers authorized by §
116.05 of this section shall be fined $100 per day per car for said violation.
(1960 Code, § 7-11-5)
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §§
116.20 through
116.40 of this chapter shall be fined not more than $200.
(1960 Code, § 7-13-33)
   (D)   Any person violating any provision of §§
116.55 through
116.60 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $200,
for each offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
on which a violation occurs or continues.
(1960 Code, § 7-15-7)
(Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995; Ord. 6275, passed 5-7-2001)
CHAPTER 117: LODGING BUSINESSES
Section
Tourist Camps and Motels
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   License; application; posting
   
117.03   Regulations
   
117.04   License revocation
Bed and Breakfast Establishments
   
117.15   Establishment
   
117.16   Definitions
   
117.17   Food service
   
117.18   Soap, towels and linens
   
117.19   Fire safety
   
117.20   Proof of insurance
   
117.21   Taxes
   
117.22   City license
   
117.23   Fees
   
117.24   License suspension, revocation or non-renewal
   
117.25   Building Code compliance
   
117.26   Electrical Code compliance
   
117.27   Design standards
   
117.28   Nuisances
   
117.29   Parking standards
   
117.30   Signage
   
117.31   Operator qualifications
   
117.32   Enforcement agencies; right of access to premises
Short-Term Rentals
   
117.50   Definitions
   
117.51   License required
   
117.52   License issuance and renewal
   
117.53   License fee
   
117.54   Standards
 
   
117.99   Penalties
Cross-reference:
   Property Maintenance Code, see
Ch. 154
   Zoning, see
Ch. 162
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 50 ILCS 820/1 to 820/8
TOURIST CAMPS AND MOTELS
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXTENDED STAY UNIT. A tourist camp, hotel or motel unit with accommodations
for sleeping along with in-unit full kitchen and bathroom facilities. In lieu
of an in-unit full kitchen, extended stay facilities may provide a shared
kitchen on individual facility floors.
   HOTEL/MOTEL. A building providing transient lodging accommodations to the
general public for compensation and which may include ancillary facilities and
services such as restaurants, meeting rooms, entertainment, personal services
and recreational facilities.
   TOURIST CAMP. Any park, tourist park, tourist court, camp, court, site, lot,
parcel or tract of land upon which one or more camp cottages or cabins are
located and maintained for the accommodation of transients by the day, week or
month, whether a charge is made or not.
(1960 Code, § 7-14-1) (Ord. 7819, passed 11-17-2014; Ord. 8397-2019, passed 11-
19-2019)
§ 117.02 LICENSE; APPLICATION; POSTING.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a tourist camp or hotel/motel in the
city without a license.
      (2)   The annual license fee for a tourist camp is $500.
      (3)   The annual license fee for a motel is $50.
(1960 Code, § 7-14-2)
   (B)   An application for a tourist camp or motel license shall be filed with
the City Council. The application shall be in writing and signed by the
applicant and contain the name and address of the applicant, and the location
and legal description of the tourist camp or motel.
(1960 Code, § 7-14-3)
   (C)   The license certificate issued under this subchapter shall be
conspicuously posted in the office of or on the premises of the tourist camp or
motel at all times.
(1960 Code, § 7-14-4)
(Ord. 7819, passed 11-17-2014; Ord. 8181-2018, passed 3-19-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.03 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Application. The regulations of this section shall apply to tourist
camps and motels.
   (B)   Camp plan. A tourist camp or hotel/motel shall be located on a well
drained area and the premises shall be properly graded so as to prevent the
accumulation of storm or other waters.
   (C)   Driveways.
      (1)   Units and cabin plots shall be clearly designated and the camp so
arranged that all units and cabin plots face or abut on a driveway of not less
than 16 feet in width, giving easy access from all units to a public street.
      (2)   Such driveway shall be paved and maintained in good condition,
having natural drainage into a city street catch basin, be well lighted at
night and shall not be obstructed.
   (D)   Floor space. No camp cottage or cabin or unit shall be less than 210
square feet, nor less than 14 feet wide at its narrowest point, nor less than
eight feet high from floor to ceiling, and shall not have less than 27 square
feet of ventilating openings. All windows must be fully screened. If the floor
is of wood, it shall be raised not less than 12 inches above the ground level.
   (E)   Toilet facilities. Each unit or cabin shall have separate toilet
facilities.
   (F)   Water supply. An adequate supply of pure water, furnished through a
pipe distribution system connected directly with the city water main, with
supply faucets located not more than 200 feet from any trailer or cabin shall
be furnished for drinking and domestic purposes at a tourist camp.
   (G)   Drinking water faucets. No common drinking vessels are permitted, nor
shall any drinking water faucets be placed in any toilet room or water closet
compartment.
   (H)   Hot water. An abundant supply of hot water shall be provided at all
times for bathing, washing and laundry facilities.
   (I)   Sewers. All waste from showers, toilets, laundries, faucets and
lavatories shall be wasted into a sewer system connected with the city sewer
system.
   (J)   Occupancy. Occupancy of any tourist camp, hotel or motel unit by any
individual shall be limited to no more than 30 consecutive days; provided that,
such occupancy shall be allowed for more than 30 days within extended stay
units and which comply with the city adopted residential building and fire
codes, as amended.
(1960 Code, § 7-14-5) (Ord. 7819, passed 11-17-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.04 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   The City Council may revoke any license to operate a tourist camp or hotel/
motel upon violation by the licensee of any provision of this subchapter or
upon failure of the licensee to maintain adequate standards for the protection
of health, sanitation and safety and for fire prevention.
(1960 Code, § 7-14-6) (Ord. 7819, passed 11-17-2014)
BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 117.15 ESTABLISHMENT.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Bed and Breakfast
Code”.
(1960 Code, § 7-16-1) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 117.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. An operator-occupied residence providing
accommodations for a charge to the public with no more than four guest rooms
for rent. The only “full service” meal the establishment shall service is
breakfast. Breakfast and light refreshments/snacks may be provided to the
guests only. BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS shall not include motels, hotels,
boarding houses or food service establishments.
   BUILDING COMMISSIONER. The city’s Building Commissioner.
   ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR. The city’s Electrical Inspector appointed by the Mayor
with the advice and consent of the City Council as provided in the city’s
Electrical Code.
   FIRE CHIEF. The Fire Chief of the city’s Fire Department.
   GUEST ROOM. A sleeping room intended to serve no more than two adult
transient guests and one child per night.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The city’s duly appointed and acting Health Officer, or duly
licensed and acting Health Officer of the County Health Department.
   OPERATOR. The owner of the bed and breakfast establishment, or the owner’s
agent, who is required by this subchapter to reside in the bed and breakfast
establishment, or on contiguous property.
(1960 Code, § 7-16-2) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 117.17 FOOD SERVICE.
   (A)   Bed and breakfast establishments which serve food shall comply with
the minimum standards of the state’s Bed and Breakfast Act, being 50 ILCS 820
and shall meet the County Health Department’s food service rules and
regulations for bed and breakfast establishments.
   (B)   Those requirements are as follows.
      (1)   Food shall be clean, wholesome, free from spoilage, free from
adulteration and misbranding, safe for human consumption and minimally handled.
Containers of food shall be stored six inches off the floor, on clean racks,
shelves or other clean surfaces in such manner as to be protected from splash
or other contamination. Milk of only pasteurized Grade A may be used. Use of
home canned food is prohibited, except for jams and jellies.
      (2)   Food shall be protected from contamination while being stored,
prepared and served, and during transportation. Perishable foods shall be
stored at temperatures that will protect them against spoilage. Potentially
hazardous food shall be maintained at safe temperatures of 45°F or below, or
140°F or above, as appropriate, except during necessary periods of preparation
and serving. Frozen foods shall be kept at temperatures that will keep them
frozen, except when being thawed for preparation. Potentially hazardous frozen
food shall be thawed at refrigeration temperatures or below, quick thawed as
part of the cooking process or thawed by another method approved by the Health
Officer. An indicating thermometer shall be located in each refrigerator and
freezer. Raw fruits and vegetables shall be washed thoroughly before use.
Stuffing, poultry and pork products shall be cooked to heat all parts of the
food at least 165°F before being served. Cooking food temperatures shall be
checked by a 0° to 220°F metal-stemmed thermometer. Salads made of meat,
poultry, potatoes, fish, shellfish or eggs and other potentially hazardous
prepared food shall be prepared from chilled products with a minimum of manual
contract. Portions of food once served to an individual may not be served
again. Laundry facilities shall be separated from food preparation areas. Live
animals shall be excluded from food preparation area.
      (3)   No person knowingly infected with a communicable disease that may
be transmitted by food handling may work in a bed and breakfast establishment.
      (4)   If the bed and breakfast operator suspects that any employee,
family member or the operator himself or herself has a communicable disease,
the operator shall notify the Health Officer immediately.
      (5)   All operators, or at least one employee of each bed and breakfast
shall be certified within six months of licensing by the County Health
Department. Certification shall be achieved by successfully completing an
examination offered by the local Health Officer as described in the current
edition of the state’s Department of Public Health Food Service Sanitation
Code.
      (6)   Persons preparing or service food or washing utensils shall wear
clean outer garments and maintain a high degree of personal cleanliness. They
shall wash their hands thoroughly before starting work and as often as
necessary while working to remove soil and contaminants. After visiting a
toilet room, persons shall wash their hands thoroughly with hand soap and dry
their hands with paper towels in a lavatory, but never in the kitchen sink.
      (7)   No one, while preparing or serving food, may use tobacco, alcohol
or mind- or mood- altering drugs or medication in any form.
      (8)   Utensils shall be kept clean and in good repair.
      (9)   Multi-use eating and drinking utensils shall be thoroughly cleaned
after each use. Facilities needed for the operations of washing, rinsing and
sanitizing shall be provided.
      (10)   Pots, pans and other utensils used in the preparation or serving
of food or drink and all food storage utensils shall be thoroughly cleaned and
sanitized after each use. Cooking surfaces of equipment, if any, shall be
cleaned at least once each day. Non-food contact surfaces of equipment shall be
cleaned at intervals that will keep them in a clean and sanitary condition.
      (11)   Residential three compartments sinks with drain boards and home-
style mechanical dishwashing machines which achieve a 165°F wash and rinse
temperature are acceptable facilities for washing multi-use eating and drinking
utensils. Utensils shall be air dried.
      (12)   Immediately following either manual or mechanical washing of
eating and/or drinking utensils, and pots, pans and other cooking utensils,
these utensils shall be effectively sanitized by being submerged in a
hypochlorite solution with a chlorine concentration continuously maintained in
100 parts per million, or another approved sanitizing solution which shall be
used at the concentration tested and approved by the Health Officer. Dishpans
may be used to accomplish the final sanitizing rinse.
      (13)   The reuse of single-service utensils is prohibited.
(1960 Code, § 7-16-3) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.18 SOAP, TOWELS AND LINENS.
   Each person who is provided accommodations shall be provided individual soap
and clean individual clothes and towels. Clean bed linen in good repair shall
be provided for each guest who is provided accommodations and shall be changed
between guests and as often as necessary. Clean linen shall be stored and
handled in a sanitary manner.
(1960 Code, § 7-16-4) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.19 FIRE SAFETY.
   (A)   Bed and breakfast establishments shall meet the state’s Fire Marshal’s
requirements and city’s Fire Department requirements for one- and two-family
dwellings.
   (B)   In addition, the following minimum standards shall be required.
      (1)   Manual fire extinguishing equipment shall be provided on each floor
in accordance with NFPA 10 - Standards for the Installation of Portable Fire
Extinguishers.
      (2)   All combustibles or flammable liquids shall be stored in approved
metal containers. There shall be no combustible storage in or under stairways.
      (3)   All trash receptacles shall be metal and lavatory receptacles shall
have covers.
      (4)   No cooking facilities shall be permitted in guest rooms.
      (5)   All hallways and stairways shall be adequately lighted. Emergency
lighting shall be required.
      (6)   No portable heating devices shall be permitted in guest rooms.
      (7)   The operator shall submit a floor plan of bed and breakfast
establishments to the city’s Fire Chief.
      (8)   Smoke detectors shall be provided.
(1960 Code, § 7-16-5) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.20 PROOF OF INSURANCE.
   The bed and breakfast establishment shall provide proof of effective
liability insurance that insures the license from liability for personal injury
and property damage of not less than $100,000 per person.
(1960 Code, § 7-16-6) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 117.21 TAXES.
   The bed and breakfast establishment shall fulfill the requirements of the
state’s Department of Revenue, including the payment of any applicable hotel
taxes and sales taxes.
(1960 Code, § 7-16-7) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 117.22 CITY LICENSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate a bed and breakfast establishment
within the corporate limits of the city without having a license from the city.
Application for a license to operate a bed and breakfast establishment shall be
made to the City Clerk, in writing on a form to be furnished by the City Clerk.
   (B)   The application shall be verified by oath or affirmation shall contain
the following information:
      (1)   The name, age and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The location and description of the bed and breakfast establishment
which is to be operated under the license; and
      (3)   Whether the applicant has made similar application for a similar
license on premises other than described in the application and whether such
application was granted or denied.
(1960 Code, § 7-16-8) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 117.23 FEES.
   (A)   The fee for an initial license shall be $75 and the fee for a renewal
of a license shall be $75. Each license issued hereunder shall be valid for one
year and must be renewed each year thereafter in order to remain valid.
   (B)   Upon application being prepared and executed by the applicant, it
shall be submitted to the City Clerk who shall refer the same to the Health
Officer, the Building Commissioner, the Fire Chief and the Electrical Inspector
for their inspections and recommendations. The city may withhold action on the
application for 30 days for the inspection of the proposed bed and breakfast
establishment premises before taking action thereon. No license shall be issued
or renewed without a recommendation to do so by the Health Officer, Building
Commissioner, Fire Chief and Electrical Inspector.
   (C)   Every licensee shall cause his or her license to be displayed in plain
view and in a conspicuous place on the first floor of the licensed premises.
(1960 Code, § 7-16-9) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 117.24 LICENSE SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OR NON-RENEWAL.
   The city may suspend, revoke or refuse to renew a license issued under this
subchapter for good cause, as determined by the City Council. Annually the
Health Officer, the Building Commissioner, the Fire Chief and the Electrical
Inspector shall inspect each bed and breakfast establishment in the city for
the purpose of determining whether such inspection reveals that a bed and
breakfast establishment is not in compliance with this subchapter, the
establishment’s license shall be suspended, revoked or not renewed, as the case
may be. Notwithstanding anything in this section of the subchapter to the
contrary, no such license shall be suspended, revoked or not renewed, except
after a public hearing by the City Council with at least three days’ prior
written notice to the licensee, affording the licensee an opportunity to appear
in person and/or by his or her legal counsel and to be heard by the City
Council. The service of such notice may be made by delivering a copy of said
notice to the licensee personally or by delivering a copy of said notice to
some person who resided in the bed and breakfast establishment premises who is
over 18 years of age and informing such person of the contents of such notice.
The city shall, within five days after such hearing, advise the licensee in
writing whether his or her license shall be suspended, revoked or not renewed;
stating in said order of suspension, revocation or non-renewal the reason or
reasons for such revocation, suspension or non-renewal. When the defect or
defects complained of in the order of suspension, revocation or non-renewal are
corrected by the licensee or his or her duly authorized agent, the licensee’s
license shall be reinstated or renewed.
(1960 Code, § 7-16-10) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 117.25 BUILDING CODE COMPLIANCE.
   Prior to the issuance of a license to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment, the establishment’s buildings and facilities shall be inspected
by the city’s Building Commissioner to determine that same are in general
compliance with the city’s Building Code and ordinances.
(1960 Code, § 7-16-11) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 117.26 ELECTRICAL CODE COMPLIANCE.
   Prior to the issuance of a license to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment, the establishment’s buildings and facilities shall be inspected
by the city’s Electrical Inspector to determine that same are in compliance
with the city’s Electrical Code and ordinances.
(1960 Code, § 7-16-12) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 117.27 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Exterior design standards. Minimal outward modification of structure
or grounds may be made only if such alterations are compatible with the
character of the area or neighborhood or may be necessary to meet health,
safety and sanitation requirements.
(1960 Code, § 7-16-13)
   (B)   Interior design standards. Any modification of the interior space
shall maintain the architectural integrity or historic character, except as may
be necessary to meet health, safety and sanitation requirements.
(1960 Code, § 7-16-14)
(Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.28 NUISANCES.
   A bed and breakfast establishment shall not generate any offensive noise,
smoke, dust or any interferences noticeable at or beyond the lot lines.
(1960 Code, § 7-16-15) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.29 PARKING STANDARDS.
   In addition to the required parking for the principal residence in
accordance with Ch. 162 of this code of ordinances, one parking space per guest
room shall be provided.
(1960 Code, § 7-16-16) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.30 SIGNAGE.
   A non-illuminated identification sign of no more than three square feet in
size affixed to and parallel with the front first floor exterior wall of the
building or mounted stationary sign in the front grounds.
(1960 Code, § 7-16-17) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.31 OPERATOR QUALIFICATIONS.
   Only persons of good moral character shall be eligible for a license under
this subchapter. Any licensee who fails to operate an orderly and reputable bed
and breakfast establishment may be subject to suspension, revocation or non-
renewal of his or her license under this subchapter.
(1960 Code, § 7-16-18) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
§ 117.32 ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES; RIGHT OF ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   (A)   The Health Officer, Building Commissioner, Fire Chief, Electrical
Inspector are hereby designated as agents of the city of the purpose of
furnishing administrative, inspection and supervisory services under this
subchapter.
(1960 Code, § 7-16-19)
   (B)   The Health Officer, Building Commissioner, Fire Chief, Electrical
Inspector and other duly authorized agents, officers and employees of the city,
shall have the right to come upon and be upon the premises of the bed and
breakfast establishment, with or without notice, at any reasonable time, to
inspect the premises of the establishment to determine that the same are being
operated and maintained in good and safe order and repair and in compliance
with this subchapter and the other applicable codes and ordinances of the city.
(1960 Code, § 7-16-20)
(Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995)
SHORT-TERM RENTALS
§ 117.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings, and are hereby defined as follows:
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms, including individualized bathroom and
kitchen facilities, which are arranged, designed, or used as living quarters
for a household.
   GUEST. A person who rents or occupies a short-term rental.
   HOST. An owner or owners engaged in providing short-term rentals.
   HOSTING PLATFORM. A marketplace entity, in whatever form or format which
facilitates short-term rentals through advertising, matchmaking or other means,
using any medium or facilitation, or from which the operator of the hosting
platform derives revenue, including booking fees or advertising revenues from
providing or maintaining the marketplace information.
   OWNER. A person holding title or co-title of an abode, dwelling unit or
residence that they may lease as a short-term rental but only in accordance
with the terms of this subchapter.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL. A single-family residential abode, including townhomes,
condominiums and rooming house dwelling units that are either primarily owner-
occupied, except for the duration of any short-term rental period of 30 days or
less, or are owned but not owner-occupied for the duration of any short-term
rental period of 30 days or less.
(Ord. 9160-2023, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 117.51 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall conduct, keep, manage or operate or cause to be conducted,
kept, managed or operated a short-term rental without a license therefor as
provided in this subchapter. A license shall be obtained for each short-term
rental and shall not be transferable. All such licenses are required to be
renewed annually, subject to the same condition as the original license. Such
license shall be issued by the city upon payment of the fee as provided in this
subchapter. Such fee shall accompany the license application.
(Ord. 9160-2023, passed 6-5-2023) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.52 LICENSE ISSUANCE AND RENEWAL.
   No license shall be issued or renewed until the short-term rental premises
has been inspected and approved by the city to assure compliance with this
subchapter.
(Ord. 9160-2023, passed 6-5-2023)
§ 117.53 LICENSE FEE.
   The license fee to be paid annually to the city pursuant to this subchapter
shall be $75.
(Ord. 9160-2023, passed 6-5-2023) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.54 STANDARDS.
   In addition to the requirements set forth in this subchapter, no license
shall be issued unless the following standards are met:
   (A)   All owners must use a hosting platform to market a short-term rental.
The hosting platform shall be responsible for determining the guest's
identification information and the accuracy of that information;
   (B)   No owner shall rent any short-term rental for any period of time
shorter than 24 consecutive hours;
   (C)   The owner must provide proof of homeowner's insurance or host
protection insurance to the city as part of its application;
   (D)   Every short-term rental shall be subject to inspection by staff
members of the city's Fire Department and Health, Housing and Building
Department; and
   (E)   The owner shall post, inside the front entrance to every short-term
rental dwelling unit, a short-term rental license issued by the city stating
the owner's name, a 24-hour telephone number to reach the owner and the maximum
occupancy of the dwelling unit as allowed by this subchapter.
(Ord. 9160-2023, passed 6-5-2023) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.99 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any owner, guest or other person who shall be found to have violated
any of the provisions of §§
117.50 through
117.54 shall be guilty of an offense punishable as follows:
      (1)   The fine for a first violation is $200;
      (2)   The fine for a second violation is $500; and
      (3)   The fine for a third or subsequent violation is $750.
   (B)   Each day a provision of §§
117.50 through
117.54 is found to have been violated constitutes a separate violation subject
to the fine schedule set forth in this section.
   (C)   Any fines shall be debts due and owing to the city that the city may
collect by any means allowed by law, including, but not limited to, filing a
lien against the subject property.
   (D)   The fines provided for herein shall not be construed as limiting the
power of a court of competent jurisdiction to impose other penalties and/or
remedies as provided for by law. In addition, an owner found to have violated
any provisions of §§
117.50 through
117.54 may be subject to the revocation, suspension or nonrenewal of a license
by the City Council.
(Ord. 9160-2023, passed 6-5-2023)
CHAPTER 118: FOOD AND BEVERAGE BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
118.01   Restaurants; outdoor dining
   
118.02   Food vendors
Convenience Stores
   
118.15   Legislative intent
   
118.16   Definitions
   
118.17   Security requirements
   
118.18   Authority to impose alternative security measures
   
118.19   Appeal
   
118.20   Cash management
   
118.21   Video gaming prohibited
   
118.22   Visibility and signage
   
118.23   Training of employees
   
118.24   Criminal trespass affidavit program
   
118.25   Additional security measures
   
118.26   Grace period
   
118.27   Non-compliance
 
   
118.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 118.01 RESTAURANTS; OUTDOOR DINING.
   (A)   No person shall operate a restaurant or lunch stand within the city
without a license. The license fee is $50 per year.
(1960 Code, § 7-2-3)
   (B)   (1)   Purpose statement. To provide for and regulate the location and
use of public areas designated for outdoor restaurants and dining
establishments within the corporate limits of the city.
(1960 Code, § 7-18-1)
      (2)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (B), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         OPERATOR. The owner of the restaurant, or the owner’s agent, who is
licensed by the city to operate and maintain a food serving establishment.
         OUTDOOR RESTAURANT/DINING ESTABLISHMENT. Any portion of a food
establishment or eating place located on a public sidewalk or public open-space
that provides waiter or waitress service and is unenclosed and open to the
general public; the facility being properly licensed as a food establishment in
the county.
(1960 Code, § 7-18-2)
      (3)   Location of outdoor restaurants/dining establishments. Outdoor
restaurants/dining establishments shall be permitted in all commercial zoning
districts as a “special use permit” subject to approval by the City Council.
(1960 Code, § 7-18-3)
      (4)   License required. No person, firm or corporation shall operate an
outdoor restaurant/dining establishment within the city without having first
obtained a license. The license fee being $50 per year. However, a person who
is operating a restaurant within the city having obtained a license under
division (A) above can amend said license without any additional license fee.
(1960 Code, § 7-18-4)
      (5)   Regulations/requirements. The operator/owner of an outdoor
restaurant/dining establishment must comply with all applicable health and
safety requirements as well as the specific zoning requirements as set forth in
Ch. 162 of this code of ordinances.
(1960 Code, § 7-18-5)
(Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995; Ord. 5547, passed 4-1-1996; Ord. 8181-2018, passed
3-19-2018) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.02 FOOD VENDORS.
   (A)   No person shall sell meats, bread, bakery goods, fruit, fish, poultry,
candy, ice cream, cheese, lard or other provisions or any or either of them at
a store, stand or place in the city without a license. The license fee of $50
per year.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to farmers or gardeners selling the
produce of their farms and gardens, nor to itinerant merchants, mobile commerce
vendors, peddlers and solicitors under
Chapter 115 of this code.
(Ord. 8068-2017, passed 7-17-2017; Ord. 8181-2018, passed 3-19-2018)
CONVENIENCE STORES
§ 118.15 LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of this subchapter is to improve safety and reduce
commercial crime by strengthening safety standards at convenience stores and
gas stations. This subchapter establishes reasonable and uniform laws to
promote the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens and residents of the
city. The provisions of this subchapter are in response to violent crimes
taking place in, or in close proximity to, convenience stores and gas stations
throughout the city.
(1960 Code, § 7-19-1) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995; Ord. 8971-2021, passed 7-19-
2021; Ord. 8995-2021, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 118.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUS/TRUCK STOP. A facility:
      (1)   That is at least a three-acre parcel, with a convenience store
building in excess of 5,000 square feet, located on a state route/highway,
      (2)   With separate parking spaces and diesel islands for fueling
commercial motor vehicles (as defined in 625 ILCS 5/18b-101),
      (3)   That sells at retail more than 10,000 gallons of diesel or
biodiesel fuel per month.
   CONVENIENCE STORE, CONVENIENCE SHOP, OR CORNER SHOP. A small retail business
that stocks a range of everyday items such as coffee, groceries, snack foods,
confectionery, soft drinks, tobacco products, over-the-counter drugs,
toiletries, newspapers, magazines, and other sundries primarily for home
consumption. Some stores may include food or beverage preparation and are
licensed to sell alcohol and/or the retail sale of motor vehicle fuels.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person performing check-out, stocking, or food preparation
services on the premises of a convenience store or gas station, whether for
hire or gratuitously.
   GAS STATION. A building or lot having pumps and storage tanks, where the
primary use is the retail sale of motor vehicle fuels. Vehicle related services
may be offered incidental to the primary use.
   MANAGER. The person designated as being responsible for the daily operation
of the convenience store or gas station.
   OWNER. The person, corporation, partnership, joint venture or other group
enterprise having lawful ownership or possession of the premises upon which a
convenience store is operated.
   POLICE CHIEF. The chief law enforcement officer of the Belleville Police
Department.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The Belleville Police Department.
   POLICE OFFICER. A sworn member of the Belleville Police Department.
(1960 Code, § 7-19-2) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995; Ord. 8010-2017, passed 2-6-
2017; Ord. 8175-2018, passed 2-20-2018; Ord. 8971-2021, passed 7-19-2021; Ord.
8995-2021, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 118.17 SECURITY REQUIREMENTS.
   The owner of each convenience store or gas station shall cause said store to
be equipped with the following security devices:
   (A)   A surveillance camera system with a minimum of three highly visible
digital, high-resolution color cameras. The security cameras shall be able to
retrieve an identifiable image of an offender. One camera shall be placed above
the cash registers at an angle to identify persons, one camera shall be placed
in view of the public entrance and one camera shall be placed to view the
exterior parking lot. Stores shall record 24 hours a day and motion sensing
cameras shall record when activated. Recordings shall be retained for at least
30 days, even if a store is closed. An exception shall be made for natural
occurrences that would affect camera function. Security cameras shall have an
annual test photo and maintenance log showing maintenance every four months.
All security cameras shall be set to report the actual date and time. Only
management shall have access to the cameras.
   (B)   A drop safe bolted to the floor behind the cash register or in an
adjacent office. Both locations must be in view of a high-resolution
surveillance camera.
   (C)   A silent or panic alarm that notifies the City Police Department or a
private security agency that a robbery or other crime is taking place.
   (D)   Height markers at the entrance(s) of the establishment which display
height measures from the floor.
   (E)   Lighted parking lots illuminated at an intensity of at least two
footcandles per square foot with a uniformity ratio of no more than five to one
at 18 inches above the surface of the parking lot.
(1960 Code, §§ 7-19-4, 7-19-6, 7-19-7, 7-19-9) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995;
Ord. 8971-2021, passed 7-19-2021; Ord. 8995-2021, passed 10-4-2021) Penalty,
see §
118.99
§ 118.18 AUTHORITY TO IMPOSE ALTERNATIVE SECURITY MEASURES.
   The Chief of Police or his or her designee, may impose alternative security
measures listed below in this section to further enhance the safety of
employees, customers and/or to respond to criminal trends, tactics or other
actions that reduce the effectiveness of the security measures required by this
code.
   (A)   Bullet resistant pass-thru enclosure system for all transactions,
(Minimum Standard UL—Underwriters Laboratory level rating 3).
   (B)   No customers admitted in the store between 10:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m.
   (C)   Two store employees on duty (recommendation authority only).
   (D)   Automated door-locking system.
   (E)   Credit/debit card or pre-pay for all gas sales.
(1960 Code, § 7-19-10) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995; Ord. 8971-2021, passed 7-
19-2021; Ord. 8995-2021, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 118.19 APPEAL.
   The owners of a convenience store or gas station, required to adopt
additional security measures imposed by the Chief or his or her designee under
§
118.18, shall have the right to file an appeal within 30 days before the Police
and Fire Committee. The Committee shall hear the appeal and make a formal
recommendation for final approval to the City Council.
(1960 Code, § 7-19-12) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995; Ord. 8971-2021, passed 7-
19-2021; Ord. 8995-2021, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 118.20 CASH MANAGEMENT.
   As a condition of their use and business license, convenience stores and gas
stations cannot keep more than $250 in any cash register on the premises at all
times between 10:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m. Additionally, there must be a written
cash management policy that limits cash on hand in the convenience store or gas
station from 10:00 p.m. to 5:00 a.m. and provided to all employees.
(Ord. 8971-2021, passed 7-19-2021; Ord. 8995-2021, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 118.21 VIDEO GAMING PROHIBITED.
   Any convenience store business defined in §
118.16 shall not conduct video gaming under the Illinois Video Gaming Act (230
ILCS 40/1 et seq.), except that a bus/truck stop as defined in §
118.16 may conduct video gaming under the Illinois Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS
40/1 et seq.)
(Ord. 7886, passed 8-17-2015; Ord. 8010-2017, passed 2-6-2017; Ord. 8971-2021,
passed 7-19-2021; Ord. 8995-2021, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 118.22 VISIBILITY AND SIGNAGE.
   (A)   All convenience stores and gas stations shall maintain an unobstructed
line of sight allowing a clear view of and from the cash register and sales
area. Fifty percent of windows and doors shall be clear of all items that would
obstruct a clear view from three feet above the ground to at least seven feet
above the ground.
   (B)   Convenience stores and gas stations shall post highly visible window
signs in English and Spanish detailing:
      (1)   There is a drop safe in the store.
      (2)   Employees do not have access to the safe.
      (3)   There is an active security system on the premises.
      (4)   ‘No Loitering’ and ‘No Trespassing’.
      (5)   There is limited cash in the cash registers at any time between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m.
(1960 Code, § 7-19-3) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995; Ord. 8971-2021, passed 7-19-
2021; Ord. 8995-2021, passed 10-4-2021) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.23 TRAINING OF EMPLOYEES.
   Each new employee shall complete a safety training program provided by their
employer or a training video provided by the Police Department before their
first workday. Training shall include, but not be limited to, drop safe, cash
handling procedures, and what to do in the event of a robbery. The employer’s
safety training program shall may be reviewed for adequacy by the Police
Department.
(1960 Code, § 7-19-5) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995; Ord. 8971-2021, passed 7-19-
2021; Ord. 8995-2021, passed 10-4-2021) Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.24 CRIMINAL TRESPASS AFFIDAVIT PROGRAM.
   A convenience store or gas station owner shall participate in a criminal
trespass affidavit program as designated by the Chief of Police. A copy of the
trespass affidavit shall be posted in a highly visible location next to a
public entrance.
(Ord. 8971-2021, passed 7-19-2021; Ord. 8995-2021, passed 10-4-2021) Penalty,
see §
118.99
§ 118.25 ADDITIONAL SECURITY MEASURES.
   Nothing in this code shall prohibit any convenience store or gas station
from using additional cameras, alarms, or other security measures, nor does it
prevent any establishment from using those measures during any hours of
operation.
(1960 Code, § 7-19-13) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995; Ord. 8971-2021, passed 7-
19-2021; Ord. 8995-2021, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 118.26 GRACE PERIOD.
   Convenience stores and gas stations in operation prior to the effective date
of Ord. 8995-2021 have six months from the effective date to complete all
requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 8971-2021, passed 7-19-2021; Ord. 8995-2021, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 118.27 NON-COMPLIANCE.
   The Police Chief, or his or her designee, shall ensure convenience stores
and gas stations are in compliance with the security requirements of this code
by conducting periodic inspections.
(Ord. 8971-2021, passed 7-19-2021; Ord. 8995-2021, passed 10-4-2021)
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision, section, or
paragraph of §§
118.15 through
118.27 shall be guilty of an infraction, and upon conviction thereof, be
subject to a fine of $500 for the first offense, $1,000 for the second offense
and conviction. A third or subsequent offense and conviction shall be subject
to a fine of $2,000. In addition to the monetary fine, the Chief may forward
the record of any such subsequent convictions to the Office of the Mayor and
request the following civil/administrative actions:
      (1)   Suspension or revocation of the establishment’s business license.
      (2)   Suspension or revocation of the establishment’s liquor license.
      (3)   Suspension or revocation of the establishment’s business and liquor
license.
(1960 Code, § 7-19-14) (Ord. 5385, passed 3-8-1995; Ord. 8971-2021, passed 7-
19-2021; Ord. 8995-2021, passed 10-4-2021)
CHAPTER 119: HEALING ARTS
Section
General Provisions
   
119.01   Healing art malpractice
 
   
119.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 119.01 HEALING ART MALPRACTICE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      HEALING ART. Shall not include care and treatment by spiritual means
through prayer in accordance with the tenets and practices of a recognized
church or religious denominations.
      HEALING ART MALPRACTICE. Any action, whether in tort, contract or
otherwise, in which the plaintiff seeks damages for injuries or death by reason
of medical, hospital or other healing art malpractice, including, but not
limited to, medical, hospital, nursing home, nursing, dental or podiatric
malpractice.
      VERDICT. A judgment entered by any court that has jurisdiction a healing
art malpractice case.
(1960 Code, § 17-1-1)
   (B)   Personal assets protected in healing art malpractice case.
      (1)   In the event that a physician has at least $1,000,000 in
professional liability insurance coverage to cover a claim against him or her,
and there is a verdict in excess of the physician’s professional liability
policy limits, the physician may petition the trial court or the designee of
the Chief Judge of the Circuit Court for asset protection in an amount equal to
two times the maximum amount payable per occurrence under the physician’s
professional liability insurance. Upon receiving such petition the court shall
enter an order granting the physician asset protection in the amount equal to
two times the maximum amount payable per occurrence under the physician’s
professional liability insurance. Within 30 days of the entry of said order,
the physician shall file a list of assets with the court that are to be
protected.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) above only applies to causes of action that arose
out of acts that occurred within the corporate limits of the city.
(1960 Code, § 17-1-2)
(Ord. 6676, passed 8-16-2004) Penalty, see §
119.99
§ 119.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(1960 Code, § 7-21-25) (Ord. 5469, passed 10-16-1995; Ord. 8289-2018, passed
12-17-2018)
CHAPTER 120: INSTALLMENT LOAN BUSINESSES
Section
   
120.01   Purpose
   
120.02   Definition
   
120.03   License required; application, investigation
   
120.04   State licensing required; compliance with state law
   
120.05   Prohibited activities
   
120.06   Hours
 
   
120.99   Penalty
§ 120.01 PURPOSE.
   The city finds that, in order to minimize the detrimental effects that
certain payday lending practices have on individuals and families, payday
lenders should be limited to three in the city. This chapter shall be construed
in conformity with the laws and regulations of the state.
(1960 Code, § 7-24-1) (Ord. 7035, passed 9-17-2007)
§ 120.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER INSTALLMENT LOAN BUSINESS. Any person, firm, association,
corporation or partnership, engaged in the business or service of, and
providing facilities for, consumers to receive cash or evidence of cash in
exchange for a loan agreement to be repaid in installments over a period of
weeks, months or years, which agreement is either collateralized or not, and
for which any service charge is made or interest received, including, but not
limited to, loans collateralized by personal check, payroll check or personal
property title, or collateralized with the promise to relinquish possession to
any personal property upon default, or engaged in any one or more of the
foregoing businesses; EXCEPT, that this definition does not include: state or
national banks, or savings banks, the United States Postal Service, Postal
Telegraph Company or Western Union Telegraph Company, credit union or any
person, firm, association, corporation or partnership engaged in the business
of selling tangible personal property at retail who, in the course of such
business and only as an incident thereto, receives checks, drafts, money orders
or other evidences of money, or receives or issues a contractual agreement to
receive money or evidence of money on an installment basis in exchange for
tangible goods sold or rented on the premises, with or without using such
tangible goods as collateral or as a repossessible item upon default.
(1960 Code, § 7-24-3) (Ord. 7035, passed 9-17-2007)
§ 120.03 LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION, INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   No person, firm, association, partnership or corporation shall conduct
or operate a consumer installment loan business without having first obtained a
license therefore as is provided in this chapter, or in violation of any of the
provisions contained in this chapter. Any consumer installment loan license may
be revoked by the Mayor for any violation of any provision of this chapter. The
license fee shall be $500 per year.
(1960 Code, § 7-24-2)
   (B)   Applications for a consumer installment loan business shall be made to
the City Clerk and shall state therein the name of the applicant, the place of
business and the number of employees intended to be engaged. The applications
shall also state the state license number and shall be accompanied by good and
sufficient proof of compliance with all state licensing laws pertaining to any
such consumer installment loan business, as defined in §
120.02 of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 7-24-5)
   (C)   The city, as a home rule unit, hereby finds and declares that at no
time shall the currently licensed number of consumer installment loan
businesses in the city exceed three, and that no license shall issue unless
renewed by the current holder of a license (after compliance with this chapter)
or by a new applicant (after compliance with this chapter) where a current
license holder relinquishes the license in writing, presented to the City Clerk
or fails to renew said license in a timely manner. This limit of the number of
licenses shall not apply to consumer installment loan business operating at the
time this chapter takes effect.
(1960 Code, § 7-24-7)
(Ord. 7035, passed 9-17-2007; Ord. 7147, passed 7-8-2008) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.04 STATE LICENSING REQUIRED; COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   Any person, firm, association, corporation or partnership applying for and/
or receiving for holding a business license in the city to operate a consumer
installment loan business, as defined in §
120.02 of this chapter, must also hold a license to operate from the state
(whenever such license is required pursuant to the Consumer Installment Loan
Act, 205 ILCS 670/1 et seq., or pursuant to any other licensing provision of
the state) and must show that such state license is current and active. In
addition, any person, firm, association, corporation or partnership operating a
consumer installment loan business within the city must, at all times, be in
full compliance with all state laws, rules and/or regulations pertaining to the
operation of such business. Failure to achieve and maintain full compliance
with all laws, rules and regulations shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter.
(1960 Code, § 7-24-4) (Ord. 7035, passed 9-17-2007) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.05 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No person, firm, association, partnership or corporation licensed to conduct
a consumer installment loan business shall accept items in pawn and/or for
bailment in exchange for cash or other evidence of cash nor shall a consumer
installment loan business, as defined herein, except evidence of title or
ownership in real property in exchange for cash or evidence of title or
ownership in real property in exchange for cash or evidence of cash.
(1960 Code, § 7-24-6) (Ord. 7035, passed 9-17-2007) Penalty, see §
120.99
§ 120.06 HOURS.
   The hours of operation of a consumer installment loan business or a currency
exchange business are hereby limited to the hours of 7:00 a.m. until 9:00 p.m.
(1960 Code, § 7-24-8) (Ord. 7035, passed 9-17-2007; Ord. 7279, passed 6-15-
2009)
§ 120.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, association, partnership or corporation violating any
provision of this chapter shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $750,
for each offense.
(1960 Code, § 7-24-9) (Ord. 7035, passed 9-17-2007)
CHAPTER 121: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
121.01   Definitions
   
121.02   License required
   
121.03   Applications
   
121.04   Prohibited licensees and locations
   
121.05   Number and nature of licenses
   
121.06   License classifications, fees, numbers
   
121.07   Closing hours
   
121.08   Specialty licenses
   
121.09   Renewal and assignment
   
121.10   Dramshop insurance
   
121.11   Disposition of fees
   
121.12   Location
   
121.13   Display of license
   
121.14   Revocation of license
Prohibited Behavior
   
121.25   Gambling
   
121.26   Disorderly house
   
121.27   Sales to minors, drunkards and the like
   
121.28   Underaged sales
   
121.29   Consumption in public places
   
121.30   Open view into interior
 
   
121.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Convenience Stores, see §§
118.15 through
118.27
   Food vendors, see §
118.02
   General Offenses, see Title XIII
   Lodging Businesses, see
Ch. 117
   Restaurants, see §
118.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 121.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Terms used in this chapter shall have the meanings set forth in 235 ILCS 5
for such terms.
(1960 Code, § 21-1-1)
§ 121.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail in the city, or for
a retailer to deliver in the city any alcoholic liquor without having a retail
liquor dealer’s license, or in violation of the terms of such license.
(1960 Code, § 21-1-2) Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.03 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Application for a retail liquor dealer’s license shall be made to the
Mayor as Local Liquor Control Commissioner, in writing, signed by the
applicant, if an individual, or by a duly authorized agent, if a club or
corporation, verified by oath or affidavit, and shall contain the following
information and statements:
      (1)   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual, and in the case of a co-partnership, the persons entitled to share
in the profits thereof, and in the case of a corporation for profit, or a club,
the date of incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the names
and addresses of the officers and directors, and if a majority in interest of
the stock of such corporation or club is owned by one person or his nominees,
the name and address of such person;
      (2)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth and, if
a naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
      (3)   The character of the business of the applicant and, in case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed;
      (4)   The length of time that the applicant has been in business of that
character, or in the case of a corporation, the date on which its charter was
issued;
      (5)   The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time
application is made;
      (6)   A statement whether applicant has made similar application for a
similar other license on premises other than described in his or her
application and the disposition of such application;
      (7)   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony,
and is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter, the laws of the state or the ordinances of the city;
      (8)   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, or
by the federal government has been revoked, and the reasons therefor; and
      (9)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of
the state, or the United States, or any ordinance of the city in the conduct of
his or her place of business.
   (B)   An application for a person who is a first time applicant for a liquor
license shall pay an application fee of $750.
(1960 Code, § 21-1-3) (Ord. 6762, passed 8-1-2005; Ord. 8176-2018, passed 3-19-
2018)
§ 121.04 PROHIBITED LICENSEES AND LOCATIONS.
   (A)   No retail liquor dealer’s license shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person who is not a resident of the city;
      (2)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community;;
      (3)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
      (4)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or
state law, unless the Local Liquor Control Commissioner determines, after
investigation, that such person has been sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant
the public trust;
      (5)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper of or is
keeping a house of ill fame;
      (6)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency or morality;
      (7)   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked
for cause;
      (8)   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application;
      (9)   A co-partnership unless all of the members of such co-partnership
shall be qualified to obtain such license;
      (10)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock
of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for
any reason other than citizenship and residence within the political
subdivision;
      (11)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent unless the manager or agent possess the same qualifications required by
the licensee except residency; provided that for persons requesting or holding
a Class “A” license, such manager or agent shall reside in Belleville or within
five miles of the city limits;
      (12)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or
state law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor
subsequent to 2-6-1934, or shall have forfeited his or her bond to appear in
court to answer charges for any such violation;
      (13)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought, or does not have a lease therefor, for the full period for which the
license is to be issued;
      (14)   Any law enforcing public official, Mayor or member of the City
Council; and no such official shall be interested in any way, either directly
or indirectly in the manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor;
      (15)   Any person, association or corporation not eligible for a state
retail liquor dealer’s license; or
      (16)   Any person, association or corporation operating or seeking to
operate an establishment that derives more than 50% of its gross monthly
revenues from licensed video gaming under the Illinois Video Gaming Act (230
ILCS 40/1 et seq.). At any time during a liquor license period or prior to the
renewal of a liquor license, the Mayor may order the licensee to produce his,
her or their accounting records to determine if the licensee remains eligible
for a liquor license under this section. Ineligibility under this section, or
the failure of the licensee to produce said records to the Mayor upon request,
shall result in the automatic revocation of a liquor license.
(1960 Code, § 21-1-4)
   (B)   (1)   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any
alcoholic liquor within 100 feet of any church, school, other than an
institution of higher learning, hospital, home for aged or indigent persons or
for veterans, their spouses or children or any military or naval station;
provided that, this prohibition shall not apply to hotels offering restaurant
service, regularly organized clubs or to restaurants, food shops or other
places where the sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business
carried on; nor to the renewal of a license for the sale of retail of alcoholic
liquor on premises within 100 feet of any church or school where such church or
school has been established within such 100 feet since the issuance of the
original license. In the case of a church, the distance of 100 feet shall be
measured to the nearest part of any building used for worship services or
educational programs and not to property boundaries. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Mayor may grant an exemption to the restrictions of this
division (B)(1) consistent with § 6-11 of the Illinois Liquor Control Act of
1934 (235 ILCS 5/6-11).
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the issuance of a license to
a church or private school to sell at retail alcoholic liquor if any such sales
are limited to periods when groups are assembled on the premises solely for the
promotion of some common object other than the sale or consumption of alcoholic
liquors.
(1960 Code, § 21-1-5)
(1960 Code, § 21-1-5) (Ord. 3175, passed 10-29-1973; Ord. 4101, passed 10-1-
1984; Ord. 6772, passed 9-19-2005; Ord. 7784, passed 6-17-2014; Ord. 7886,
passed 8-17-2015; Ord. 9040-2022, passed 5-2-2022; Ord. 9224-2023, passed 11-
20-2023)
§ 121.05 NUMBER AND NATURE OF LICENSES.
   (A)   (1)   The total number of licenses to be issued under this chapter
shall be as hereinafter set forth.
      (2)   A restriction upon the number of licenses shall not limit the right
to the renewal of any existing license, nor to the issuance of the license to
the purchaser of or lessor of an established licensed business as a going
concern, nor to the issuance of a license to an operator of an established
liquor business at a different location; provided, such licenses do not
increase the number of licenses in existence; nor to the issuance of a license
to the purchaser of, lessor of, or lessee of, a business where the license has
been revoked and not restored.
      (3)   No person, firm or corporation shall operate no more than two
liquor establishments. This division (A) shall not apply to Class B and C
licenses.
      (4)   The restrictions contained in this division (A) shall in no way
affect taverns and other businesses holding retail liquor licenses, duly
licensed by the county or other municipalities which are located in territory
annexed to the city. Licenses may be issued to them by the duly constituted
authorities upon annexation; provided that, thereafter all of the restrictions
contained in this division (A) shall apply to the contingencies herein set
forth.
      (5)   (a)   No license shall be held in existence by the mere payment of
fees by any person, firm or corporation, for a longer period than 90 days,
without a tavern or liquor business for same being in full and complete
operation, except as hereinafter provided.
         (b)   In those cases where the 90-day period, as stated in division
(A)(5)(a) above has expired, the Mayor, as Local Liquor Control Commissioner,
may extend the period of time for which a license may be held by the payment of
fees without the tavern or liquor business being in full and complete
operation, beyond such 90-day period. Such extension may be granted by the
Mayor when the following conditions exist:
            1.   Where the building housing a tavern or liquor business has
been destroyed or damaged by fire or act of God and cannot be rebuilt or
repaired within the 90-day period. Such extension shall be for a period of time
as is determined to be reasonable to complete the required rebuilding and
repair;
            2.   Where building, remodeling or construction of facilities to
house a tavern or liquor business is delayed through no fault of the licensee,
and upon presentation of affidavits, plans, contracts for the work to be
performed, and any other evidence required by the Mayor, showing the reason for
the delay, the Mayor may extend the period of time for which a license may be
held by the payment of fees without the tavern or liquor business being in full
and complete operation. The extension, if granted, shall be for such period of
time as is determined to be reasonable to complete the building, remodeling or
constructing; and
            3.   In no case may any license so extended by the Mayor for the
reasons stated in divisions (A)(5)(b)1. and (A)(5)(b)2. above be assigned, and
such license shall expire immediately if the rebuilding, repair, building,
remodeling or construction as contemplated by divisions (A)(5)(b)1. and (A)(5)
(b)2. above is abandoned by the licensee during any period of extended time. A
license so expired shall not be subject to renewal unless all of the
requirements of this division (A) shall have been met.
(1960 Code, § 21-1-6)
   (B)   (1)   A license issued under this chapter shall be purely a personal
privilege, good for not to exceed one year after issuance, unless sooner
revoked as in this chapter authorized and provided and shall not constitute
property, nor shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or execution, nor
shall it be alienable or transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject
to being encumbered or hypothecated. Except, however, that, upon the death of a
licensee who is the holder of a current paid license that is not pending
revocation, the heir or heirs by either testate or intestate succession may
require reissuance of said license in such heir’s name unless such heir elects
not to continue business under such license.
      (2)   Then, in that event, executors and administrators of any estate of
the deceased licensee, and the trustees of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee,
when such estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor, may continue the
business of the sale of alcoholic liquor under the order of the court having
jurisdiction of such estate and may exercise the privileges of such deceased,
insolvent or bankrupt licensee, after the death of such decedent, or such
insolvency or bankruptcy, until the expiration of such license, but not longer
than six months after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee. A
refund shall be made of that portion of the license fees paid for any period in
which the licensee shall be prevented from operation under such license, in
accordance with the provisions of this division (B).
(1960 Code, § 21-1-7)
(Ord. 2581, passed - -; Ord. 2697, passed - -; Ord. 2853, passed - -; Ord.
3319, passed 10-20-1975; Ord. 4479, passed 1-18-1988)
§ 121.06 LICENSE CLASSIFICATIONS, FEES, NUMBERS.
   (A)   Generally. Such license shall be divided into the following classes:
      (1)   (a)   Class “A-1”, which shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor for consumption on or off the premises where sold and not for resale in
any form. The annual fee for such license shall be $700. No Class “A-1” license
shall be issued except to a licensee who actually sells at retail alcoholic
liquor for consumption both on and off the premises where sold;
         (b)   Class "A-2", which shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor for consumption only on the premises where sold and not for resale in
any form. The annual fee for such license shall be $700. No Class "A-l" license
shall be issued except to a licensee who actually sells at retail alcoholic
liquor for consumption both on and off the premises where sold;
         (c)   The total number of Class "A-l" and Class "A-2" licenses shall
not exceed 53, collectively.
      (2)   (a)   Class “B”, which shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises of restaurants, but not for consumption
off the premises of restaurants and not for resale in any form. For the purpose
of this Class “B” license, a RESTAURANT is defined to mean a public place kept,
used, maintained, advertised and held out to the public, where meals are served
and where meals actually are served and regularly served, without sleeping
accommodations; such space being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen
and dining room equipment and capacity and having employed therein a sufficient
number and kind of employees to prepare, cook and serve suitable foods for its
guests; it is further provided that a restaurant as herein defined shall mean
an establishment which derives more than 50% of its gross sales from the sale
of food. The annual fee for such license shall be $700. There shall be no limit
on the number of Class “B” licenses; and
         (b)   At any time during the license period or prior to the renewal of
a Class “B” license, the Mayor may order the licensee to produce his or her
accounting records to determine if the licensee is qualified to hold a Class
“B” liquor license. The failure of the licensee to produce said records for the
Mayor upon request, shall result in the automatic revocation of a Class “B”
liquor license.
      (3)   (a)   Class “C-1”, which shall only permit the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor in sealed packages, but not for consumption on the premises of
where it is sold; provided that single-serving containers of alcoholic
beverages in a volume of 40 fluid ounces or less shall only be cooled/chilled
in an electrical refrigeration unit and shall not be displayed for sale at the
cashier/check-out counter. The annual fee for such license shall be $800.
         (b)   Class “C-2", which shall only permit the retail sale of beer and
wine in sealed packages, but not for consumption on the premises of where it is
sold; provided that single-serving containers of alcoholic beverages in a
volume of 40 fluid ounces or less shall only be cooled/chilled in an electrical
refrigeration unit and shall not be displayed for sale at the cashier/check-out
counter. The annual fee for such license shall be $800.
         (c)   The total number of Class “C-1” and Class “C-2" licenses shall
not exceed 50 collectively.
         (d)   The holder of a Class “C-1” or Class “C-2" liquor license shall
not conduct video gaming under the Illinois Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS 40/1 et
seq.) provided, however, that, notwithstanding the foregoing, a bus/truck stop
as defined in §
118.16 may conduct video gaming under the Illinois Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS
40/1 et seq.);
      (4)   Class “D”, which shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic liquor
for consumption only on the premises where sold to be issued to a regularly
organized club, such sales to be made only to the members and guests of the
club, whether year-round or intermittent/seasonal. For the purposes of this
chapter, a CLUB is defined to mean a corporation organized under the laws of
this state, not for pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common
object other than the sale and consumption of alcoholic liquors. The annual fee
for such license shall be $400. There shall be no limit on the number of Class
“D” licenses. No Class “D” license shall be issued until the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner has satisfied himself or herself that the club applying
for the license was actually and in fact, organized for some purpose or object
other than the sale or consumption of alcoholic liquor;
      (5)   Class “E”, which shall permit the sale or dealing at retail in
alcoholic liquor by a religious organization or a not-for-profit organization
that does business only intermittently. The annual fee for such license shall
be $100. There shall be no limit on the number of Class “E” licenses; and
      (6)   (a)   Class “F-1”, which shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor for consumption on or off premises opened only periodically for the
express purpose of providing accommodations for weddings, parties, bingo and
other such special events. The annual fee for such license shall be $500.
         (b)   Class "F-2", which shall permit the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor for consumption only on premises opened only periodically for the
express purpose of providing accommodations for weddings, parties, bingo and
other such special events. The annual fee for such license shall be $400.
         (c)   There shall be no limit on the number of Class “F” licenses.
   (B)   License classifications, fees and numbers.
      (1)   All licenses expire on May 1 of each year. License fees are payable
in full, in advance, to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to keep open for business or to admit the
public to or permit the public to remain within or to permit the consumption of
alcoholic liquor in or upon any premises in which alcoholic liquor is sold at
retail during the hours in which the sale of such liquor is prohibited;
provided, that where separate defined areas are used for dispensing of food
stuffs and alcoholic beverages during the hours designated herein, such
specified areas may continue to dispense food stuffs after its authorized
closing hour as set forth herein, but shall in no way dispense alcoholic
beverages after its authorized closing hour as set forth herein or allow
consumption of alcoholic beverages after its authorized closing hour as set
forth herein.
(1960 Code, § 21-1-8) (Ord. 5021, passed 1-4-1993; Ord. 5521, passed 3-4-1996;
Ord. 7089, passed 3-17-2008; Ord. 6853, passed 4-3-2006; Ord. 7886, passed 8-
17-2015; Ord. 7911, passed 11-16-2015; Ord. 8010-2017, passed 2-6-2017; Ord.
8176-2018, passed 3-19-2018; Ord. 8311-2019, passed 3-18-2019; Ord. 8938-2021,
passed 4-19-2021; Ord. 9179-2023, passed 8-7-2023) Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.07 CLOSING HOURS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail or to give
away in or upon any licensed premises any alcoholic liquor between the hours of
1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. prevailing time, on any day of the week; except that,
for an additional $250 license fee, it shall only be unlawful to sell or offer
for sale at retail or to give away in or upon any licensed premises any
alcoholic liquor between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. prevailing time
on any day of the week.
   (B)   The Mayor, as Liquor Commissioner, at his or her discretion may issue
licenses which call for closing hours earlier than 1:00 a.m. and it shall be
unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail or give away in or upon any
licensed premises any alcoholic liquor between the closing hours on the license
set by the Mayor as Liquor Commissioner and 5:00 a.m.
(1960 Code, § 21-1-9) (Ord. 3319, passed 10-20-1975; Ord. 7089, passed 3-17-
2008) Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.08 SPECIALTY LICENSES.
   (A)   (1)   Upon application, the local Liquor Control Commission is
authorized to issue a special event liquor license for a period of 12 or 24
hours to any person who keeps or desires to keep any place for selling or
offering for sale, or in any manner dealing in any alcoholic liquors.
      (2)   The fee for such license shall be for the sale of alcoholic
liquors, the sum of $20 for each 12 hours; for more than 12 hours and not more
than 24 hours, within any one day, $30, subject to the provisions of this
chapter.
      (3)   No more than five special event liquor licenses in conjunction with
a street closure shall be issued to any person, entity or licensed
establishment during any calendar year.
   (B)   Upon application, the Local Liquor Control Commission is authorized to
issue a caterer's license for a period of one year to any city liquor licensee
who desires to serve alcoholic liquors for consumption either on-site or off-
site as an incidental part of food service for a fee of $50.
   (C)   Such person shall give the bond required by law and this chapter
governing the sale or giving away of alcoholic liquors.
   (D)   No such license shall be transferable.
(1960 Code, § 21-1-10) (Ord. 9078-2022, passed 8-15-2022) Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.09 RENEWAL AND ASSIGNMENT.
   The owner of a license to keep a place where alcoholic liquor is sold or
offered for sale has the right to a renewal or reissue of said license at the
same place of business that the license is issued to in compliance with the
laws of the state and upon compliance with the provisions of the ordinances of
the city. If the owner wishes to renew the license at a different location,
then he or she shall be required to obtain a special use permit pursuant to the
zoning laws in the city for the new location. Such licensee may assign or
convey his or her right to renewal or reissue thereof to any person or
corporation who upon compliance with the laws of the state relating thereto and
with the ordinances of the city, shall be entitled to a renewal or reissue of
such license in his or her own name or the corporation’s name. The person to
whom the license is assigned shall be required to apply for a special use
permit pursuant to the Zoning Code and shall be subject to the same background
checks as provided by the ordinances of the city. The Liquor Commissioner, in
his or her discretion, may grant the assignee a license to operate the premises
on a temporary basis until such time as special use permit is granted pursuant
to the zoning ordinances and the background checks is completed. If the special
use permit is not granted or the background check is not satisfactory, the
license shall be revoked.
(1960 Code, § 21-1-11) (Ord. 7106, passed 4-8-2008)
§ 121.10 DRAMSHOP INSURANCE.
   Every applicant licensed to sell or deal in alcoholic liquor shall, before
obtaining said license, furnish a certificate of dram shop insurance with
coverage by a reliable insurance company providing coverage in the amount of
$45,000 for injury to a person or property and coverage in the amount of
$55,000 for loss of means and support or loss of society resulting from death
or injury of any person. The certificate of insurance shall be in effect on
April 30, and the licensee shall be responsible to provide the city a new
certificate of insurance each time said insurance expires.
(1960 Code, § 21-1-12) (Ord. 6410, passed 4-1-2002)
§ 121.11 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   All money derived from collections of liquor license fees shall become a
part of and be paid over to the General Fund of the city.
(1960 Code, § 21-1-13) (Ord. 1768, passed - -)
§ 121.12 LOCATION.
   (A)   General. A retail liquor dealer’s license shall permit the sale of
alcoholic liquor only in the premises described in the application and license.
Such location may be changed only upon the written permit to make such change
issued by the local Liquor Control Commissioner. No change of location is
permitted unless the proposed new location is a proper one for the retail sale
of alcoholic liquor under the laws of the state and the ordinances of the city.
   (B)   Outdoor areas.
      (1)   The retail liquor dealer’s license shall permit the sale of
alcoholic beverages in an outdoor areas; provided that, the outdoor area to be
used as for sale of alcoholic beverages is expressly identified in the
application and license approved by the local Liquor Control Commissioner and
the outdoor area complies with §
162.400 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall set the hours of
alcohol sales in the outdoor area.
(1960 Code, § 21-1-14) (Ord. 7697, passed 7-15-2013) Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.13 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee under this chapter shall cause his or her license or licenses
to be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed
premises.
(1960 Code, § 21-1-15) (Ord. 1768, passed - -) Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.14 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The local Liquor Control Commissioner may, when in his or her
judgment, any section of this chapter is violated, revoke the license of the
person operating the place where such violation occurs.
   (B)   A conviction by any court of competent jurisdiction under any section
of this chapter shall be conclusive justification to the Commissioner for such
revocation, subject to the right of appeal as provided for under the laws of
the state.
   (C)   In all cases in which such licenses is revoked without a previous
conviction under the provisions of this chapter, the Commissioner shall report
to the City Council at its next regular meeting the fact of such revocation and
the specific reasons therefor.
   (D)   (1)   Any five residents of the city shall have the right to file a
complaint with the Commissioner stating that any retailer licensee subject to
the jurisdiction of the Commissioner has been or is violating the provisions of
the state’s Liquor Control Act, being 235 ILCS 5, the rules or regulations
issued pursuant thereto, or the ordinances of the city.
      (2)   Such complaints shall be in writing in the form prescribed by the
Commissioner and shall be signed and sworn to by the persons complaining. The
complaint shall state the particular provision, rule, regulation or ordinance
believed to have been violated and facts in detail upon which belief is based.
      (3)   If the Commissioner is satisfied that the complaint substantially
charges a violation and that from the facts alleged, there is reasonable cause
for such belief, he or she shall set the matter for hearing and shall serve
reasonable notice upon the licensee of the time and place of such hearing and
the particular charge in the complaint.
(1960 Code, § 21-1-16) (Ord. 1980, passed - -)
PROHIBITED BEHAVIOR
§ 121.25 GAMBLING.
   It is unlawful to keep, place, maintain or operate any gambling device as
defined in §
111.025 of this code of ordinances in and upon the premises used and occupied
as a place where alcoholic liquor is sold or given away. The Liquor
Commissioner may revoke the license of any person, firm or corporation licensed
to sell alcoholic liquor in the city who permits a violation of this section to
occur on the premise covered by such ordinance.
(1960 Code, § 21-1-19) (Ord. 5757, passed 7-21-1997) Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.26 DISORDERLY HOUSE.
   Any person license under this chapter shall not suffer any disorder,
drunkenness, quarreling, fighting, unlawful games or riotous or disorderly
conduct in any house or premises kept or occupied by him or her for the sale of
liquor.
(1960 Code, § 21-1-20) (Ord. 1768, passed - -) Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.27 SALES TO MINORS, DRUNKARDS AND THE LIKE.
   No licensee nor any officer, associate, member, representative, agent or
employee of such licensee shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any
person under the age of 21 years, or to any intoxicated person or to any person
known to him or her to be an habitual drunkard, spendthrift, insane, mentally
ill, mentally deficient or in need of mental treatment. No person, after
purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor, shall sell, give or deliver
such alcoholic liquor to another person under the age of 21 years, except in
the performance of a religious ceremony or service.
(1960 Code, § 21-1-21) (Ord. 3679, passed 1-7-1980) Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.28 UNDERAGED SALES.
   (A)   Any person under the age of 21 years, who purchases or obtains any
alcoholic liquor or alcoholic beverage in any tavern, or other place in the
city where alcoholic liquor or alcoholic beverage is sold, shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not less than $10, nor more than
$200, for each offense.
   (B)   Any person under the age of 21 years, who misrepresents his or her age
for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor or alcoholic
beverage in any tavern or place in the city where alcoholic beverage is sold,
shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not less than $10, nor
more than $200, for each offense.
   (C)   Every tavern, or other place in the city where alcoholic liquor or
alcoholic beverage is sold for beverage purposes, shall display at all times in
a prominent place a printed card which shall be issued by the City Clerk and
which shall read substantially as follows:
 
UNDERAGED WARNING
You are subject to a fine up to Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00), under the
ordinances of the City of Belleville, if you purchase alcoholic liquor or
alcoholic beverage, or misrepresent your age for the purpose of purchasing or
obtaining alcoholic liquor or beverage.
 
   (D)   No holder of a retail liquor dealer’s license, or his or her agent or
employee, shall suffer or permit any person under the age of 19 years to be or
remain in any room or compartment adjoining or adjacent to or situated in the
room or place in which such licensed premises is located. This division (D)
shall not apply to any person under 19 years of age who is accompanied by his
or her parent or guardian, or to any licensed premises which derives its
principal business from the sale of service or commodities other than alcoholic
liquor or alcoholic beverages.
   (E)   Any holder of a retail liquor dealer’s license, or his or her agent or
employee, who violates this section shall, upon conviction, be subject to a
fine of not less than $10 or more than $200 for each offense, or to the
revocation of his or her retail liquor dealer’s license, or to both such fine
and revocation of license.
   (F)   Any parent or guardian who knowingly permits any child of which he or
she may be the parent or guardian to violate any provision of this section
shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than $10, nor more
than $200.
   (G)   Any person under the age of 21 years shall not have alcoholic liquor
in his or her possession and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to a
fine of not less than $10, nor more than $200, for each offense. This division
(G) does not apply to possession by a person who is at least 18 years old while
making a delivery of alcoholic liquor in pursuance of the order of his or her
parent or in pursuance of his or her employment in accordance with division (H)
of this section.
   (H)   No holder of a retail liquor dealer's license under this chapter shall
employ or permit any person under the age of 21 years to handle, sell or serve
alcoholic liquors for sale; provided, however, that any establishment holding a
Class "A" or "B" license may employ persons 18 years of age or older to serve
alcoholic liquors to patrons in any fixed location used for service of food
where such person is under the direct and immediate supervision of an employee
21 years of age or older who has supervisory authority over the underage
employee and who is actually present on the premises at all times the underage
employee is serving alcohol, but under no circumstances shall such person be
employed or act as a bartender.
(1960 Code, § 21-1-22) (Ord. 3150, passed 6-18-1973; Ord. 3679, passed 1-7-
1980; Ord. 8174-2018, passed 2-20-2018) Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.29 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   Except as expressly authorized by the local Liquor Control Commissioner, it
shall be unlawful for any person to consume or possess open liquor in any
public place within the city within 200 feet of the nearest property line of a
dramshop.
(1960 Code, § 21-1-23) (Ord. 7697, passed 7-15-2013) Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.30 OPEN VIEW INTO INTERIOR.
   (A)   In premises upon which the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption
upon the premises is licensed, other than a restaurant, hotel or club, no
screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or thing shall be placed in the
windows, or upon the doors of such licensed premises, nor inside such premises,
which prevents a clear view into the interior of such licensed premises from
the street or sidewalk at all times, and no booth, screen, partition or other
obstruction, nor any arrangement of lights or lighting shall be permitted in or
about the interior of such premises, which prevents a full view of the entire
interior of such premises from the street or sidewalk; and the premises must be
so located that there will be a full view of the entire interior of such
premises from the street or sidewalk.
   (B)   All rooms where liquor is sold for consumption upon the premises shall
be continuously lighted during business hours by natural light or artificial
white light, so that all parts of the interior of the premises shall be clearly
visible.
   (C)   In case the view into any such licensed premises required by the
foregoing provisions shall be willfully obscured by the licensee or by him or
her willfully suffered to be obscured or in any manner obstructed, then such
license shall be subject to revocation in the manner provided by law.
   (D)   In order to enforce the provisions of this section, the local Liquor
Control Commissioner shall have the right to require the filing with him or her
of plans, drawings and photographs showing the clearance of the view as above
required.
(1960 Code, § 21-1-24) Penalty, see §
121.99
§ 121.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which a penalty is
not specifically provided shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $200.
(1960 Code, § 21-1-25)
CHAPTER 122: ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESSES
Section
   
122.01   Purpose and findings
   
122.02   Definitions
   
122.03   Required license
   
122.04   License application
   
122.05   Licensing procedure
   
122.06   License expiration and renewal
   
122.07   License suspension and revocation
   
122.08   Appeal of denial, nonrenewal, suspension or revocation of license
   
122.09   Location of sexually oriented businesses
   
122.10   Existing sexually oriented businesses
   
122.11   Requirements for sexually oriented businesses
   
122.12   Live adult entertainment
   
122.13   Massage parlors
 
   
122.99   Penalty
§ 122.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   The City Council finds:
   (A)   The operation of sexually oriented businesses in the city requires
special regulations and supervision in order to protect, preserve and promote
the health, safety, and welfare of the patrons of such businesses, as well as
the health, safety, and welfare of the city's residents. Further, protecting
order and morality, preventing the deterioration of the city's neighborhoods,
promoting retail trade, maintaining property values, and ensuring sanitary and
safe public places are desirable objectives of the community and the city's
leaders.
   (B)   (1)   Evidence from many different sources confirms that the operation
of adult entertainment businesses has historically and regularly been
accompanied by secondary effects that are detrimental to the health, safety,
moral, economic vitality and growth of the city and its citizens. Such
secondary effects include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Significant criminal activity and activities injurious to the
health, safety, morals, economic growth and vitality, and general welfare of
the community;
         (b)   Detrimental effects on nearby businesses and residential areas;
and
         (c)   A decline in property values in the area of the adult
entertainment businesses.
      (2)   Accordingly, there is a compelling need and interest to regulate
adult entertainment businesses as provided in this chapter to protect and
promote the public health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the city and
its citizens.
   (C)   The city finds that this chapter bears a substantial relation to
public health, safety and welfare, and promotes the long-term interests of the
city community.
   (D)   Numerous studies and court opinions establish that adult entertainment
businesses have objectionable operational characteristics and are frequently
used for unlawful activities. The City Council recognizes that the courts have
allowed cities to rely upon the experiences of other jurisdictions with regards
to adult entertainment businesses and have not required each jurisdiction
regulating such businesses to conduct their own studies. The City Council has
decided to also rely upon such other experiences, as recognized by the courts,
because it does not have the time, experience, and/or resources to adequately
study these issues. As such, the City Council takes legislative notice of the
evidence of conduct, activities, and crimes occurring in and around adult
entertainment businesses located in other jurisdictions, which the City Council
hereby deems to be relevant to the experience in the city, as reported in the
studies and findings of other city and county legislative bodies that have also
adopted ordinances regulating adult entertainment businesses.
   (E)   The resources available for responding to problems associated with
adult entertainment businesses are limited and are most efficiently and
effectively utilized through appropriate zoning and a licensing and regulatory
program.
   (F)   Sexually oriented adult entertainment businesses are directly related
to or associated with declines in property values, especially those of
residential areas.
   (G)   Sexually oriented adult entertainment businesses are directly related
to or associated with degradation of the quality of life within a neighborhood.
   (H)   Numerous other jurisdictions have attempted to address these adverse
secondary effects by regulations which limit the zones in which sexually
oriented adult entertainment uses are allowed and create buffers around such
uses. The City Council relies on the validation of these methods by the United
States Supreme Court, including, but not limited to, City of Kenton v. Playtime
Theatres, Inc., et al., 475 U.S. 41, 106 S.Ct. 925 (1986), and Young v.
American Mini Theatres, 426 U.S. 50 (1970).
   (I)   Sexually oriented adult entertainment businesses should only be
located in areas of the city which are not in close proximity to residential
uses, churches, parks, schools, childcare facilities, libraries, and similar
facilities or uses.
   (J)   The City Council finds that protection of the public is best served by
limiting adult entertainment related uses to a permittable special use in Light
Industry (D-1) and Heavy Industry (D-2) zoning districts in the city.
   (K)   A reasonable time, place, and manner regulation of sexually oriented
adult entertainment businesses will provide for the protection of the community
and its property values, and protect the residents of the community from the
adverse effects of such sexually oriented adult entertainment businesses, while
providing those who desire to patronize sexually oriented adult entertainment
businesses such an opportunity in areas within the city which are appropriate
locations of sexually oriented adult entertainment businesses and land uses.
   (L)   The licensing fees required in this chapter are necessary as
reasonable fees imposed to help defray the costs of processing the license
applications and the substantial expenses incurred by the city in regulating
the adult entertainment industry. License regulations set forth in this chapter
are necessary to prevent the exploitation of minors, to assure the correct
identification of persons working in adult entertainment businesses, to
effectively deploy the city's limited law enforcement resources, and in order
to effectively protect the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the
city and its citizens.
   (M)   The consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises of sexually
oriented businesses exacerbates the adverse secondary effects of such
businesses on the community.
   (N)   Public studies, cases, and reports, as well as statistics and studies
performed by a substantial number of cities and towns in the United States,
indicate that:
      (1)   Large numbers of persons, primarily male, frequent such sexually
oriented businesses, especially those which provide closed booths, cubicles,
studios and rooms for the private viewing of so-called "adult" motion pictures,
videotapes or live entertainment.
      (2)   Such closed booths, cubicles, studios and rooms have been used by
patrons, clients or customers of such sexually oriented businesses for the
purpose of engaging in specified sexual activities.
      (3)   Male and female prostitutes have been known to frequent such
businesses in order to provide sex for hire to the patrons, clients or
customers of such businesses within such booths, cubicles, studios and rooms.
      (4)   Doors, curtains, blinds and other closures installed in or on the
entrances and exits of such booths, cubicles, studios and rooms which are
closed while such booths, cubicles, studios and rooms are in use encourage
patrons using such booths, cubicles, studios and rooms to engage in specified
sexual activities therein with prostitutes, other persons or by themselves,
thereby promoting and encouraging prostitution and the commission of specified
sexual activities which cause blood, semen, urine or other bodily secretion to
be deposited on the floors and walls of such booths, cubicles, studios and
rooms, which deposits could prove detrimental to the health and safety of other
persons who may come into contact with such deposits.
      (5)   Booths, cubicles, studios and rooms that are closed while they are
in use often contain holes that have been cut or smashed out of the walls or
other partitioning material. These holes permit the inhabitant of one booth,
cubicle, studio or room to engage in specified sexual activities with the
inhabitant of the adjoining booth, cubicle, studio or room. These holes promote
and encourage specified sexual acts to occur between persons anonymously.
Anonymous sexual contact poses a higher risk of spread of communicable
diseases, including the AIDS virus, Hepatitis B and other sexually transmitted
diseases. Further, the existence of such holes in booths, cubicles, studios and
rooms at sexually oriented businesses provides an increased risk that blood,
semen, urine or other bodily secretion will be deposited on the floors and
walls of such booths, cubicles, studios and rooms, which deposits could prove
detrimental to the health and safety of other persons who may come into contact
with such deposits.
      (6)   Specified sexual activities often occur at unregulated sexually
oriented businesses that provide live adult entertainment. Specified sexual
activities include sexual physical contact between employees and patrons of
sexually oriented businesses and specifically include "lap dancing" or manual
or oral touching or fondling of specified anatomical areas, whether clothed or
unclothed. Such casual sexual physical contact between strangers may result in
the transmission of communicable diseases, which would be detrimental to the
health of the patrons and employees of such sexually oriented businesses.
      (7)   The unregulated operation of sexually oriented businesses,
including off-site adult businesses like adult bookstores, adult video stores
and adult novelty stores, is associated with an increase in the incidence of
sex-related crimes and other crimes and also has a disruptive effect on the
surrounding neighborhood by causing excessive noise, parking problems, the
presence of discarded sexually oriented material on residential lawns, and the
performance of sexual acts in public places, as well as causing a deleterious
effect on surrounding businesses and decrease in the value of surrounding
property.
      (8)   Sexually oriented businesses that operate in close proximity to
each other further contribute to an increase in crime, lower property values,
blight and the downgrading of the quality of life and value of property in the
adjacent area, and sexually oriented businesses that operate within a short
distance of schools, churches, parks, libraries and other public facilities
negatively impact such places and have an adverse effect upon persons,
particularly children, walking to and from such places.
      (9)   The reasonable regulation and supervision of such sexually oriented
businesses tends to discourage prostitution, other sex-related crimes,
anonymous and high-risk sexual contact and unsanitary sexual activity,
excessive noise and property devaluement, thereby decreasing the incidences of
communicable diseases and sex-related crimes, all thereby promoting and
protecting the health, safety and welfare of the employees and the members of
the public who patronize such businesses and protecting the health, safety and
property interests of a city and its residents.
      (10)   Location and zoning regulations alone do not adequately protect
the public health, safety and welfare and thus certain requirements with
respect to the ownership, employees, facility, operation, advertising, hours of
business and other aspects of the sexually oriented business are in the public
interest.
   (O)   It is the purpose and intent of the City Council, in enacting this
chapter, to regulate sexually oriented businesses to promote the health, safety
and general welfare of the city and its citizens and to establish reasonable
and uniform regulations of such businesses in order to reduce or eliminate the
adverse secondary effects of such sexually oriented businesses, protect
residents from increased crime, preserve the quality of life, preserve the
property values and the character of surrounding neighborhoods and businesses,
deter the spread of blight, and protect against the threat to public health
from the spread of communicable and social diseases.
   (P)   It is not the intent of the City Council, in enacting this chapter, to
deny to any person rights to speech protected by the United States
Constitution, or the State of Illinois Constitution. Further, by enacting this
chapter, the City Council does not intend to deny the constitutionally
protected rights of any adult to obtain or view any sexually oriented materials
under the United States or State Constitutions, nor does it intend to deny any
constitutionally protected rights that distributors or exhibitors of such
sexually oriented materials may have to sell, distribute or exhibit such
materials.
(Ord. 8183-2018, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 122.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   ADULT ARCADE. Any establishment where one or more still or motion picture
projectors, slide projectors or similar machines, or other image producing
machines, for viewing by five or fewer persons each, are regularly used to show
films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions that are characterized by the depiction or description of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
   ADULT CABARET. Any nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar commercial
establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are served, which regularly
features:
      (1)   Persons who appear nude or seminude;
      (2)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas; or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions that are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
   ADULT BOOKS. Any books, magazines, periodicals, pamphlets, or other printed
materials characterized by the depiction, display, or description of specified
anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT.
      (1)   Any exhibition of any adult-oriented motion picture, live
performance, display or dance of any type that has as a significant or
substantial portion of such performance, any performance of specified sexual
activities or exhibition and viewing of specified anatomical areas, removal of
articles of clothing or appearing unclothed, pantomime, modeling, or any other
personal services offered customers, when such adult entertainment is held,
conducted, operated or maintained for profit, direct or indirect; and
      (2)   Any amusement machine that is regularly used for presenting
material that is characterized by the depiction or description of specified
anatomical areas or specified sexual activities, for observation by patrons
thereof.
   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. Any enclosed building with a capacity of
50 or less persons regularly used for showing films, motion pictures,
videocassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions that are
characterized by the depiction or description of specified anatomical areas or
specified sexual activities, for observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. Any enclosed building with a capacity of more
than 50 persons regularly used for showing films, motion pictures,
videocassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions that are
characterized by the depiction or description of specified anatomical areas or
specified sexual activities, for observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT NOVELTIES.
      (1)   Instruments, devices, toys or paraphernalia that are designed for
or marketed primarily for stimulating human genital organs, sexual arousal or
sadomasochistic use;
      (2)   Instruments, devices, gag gifts, toys or paraphernalia that depict,
display or are shaped in the form of specified anatomical areas; and
      (3)   Oils, lotions, gels or creams that are designed for or marketed
primarily for use upon specified anatomical areas and intended for stimulating
human genital organs, sexual arousal or as an aid to enhance or promote
specified sexual activities.
   ADULT ORIENTED STORE. Any establishment having:
      (1)   A substantial or significant portion of its stock in trade in adult
books, adult videos or adult novelties or any combination thereof; or
      (2)   Any portion of its stock in trade in adult books, adult videos or
adult novelties and in conjunction therewith has rooms, designated areas or
facilities for the presentation, observation or use by patrons of any item sold
or rented in such establishment.
   ADULT THEATER. Any theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment that regularly features persons who appear nude or seminude or
who appear in live performances that are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities, for
observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT VIDEOS. Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, DVDs, software, slides
or other photographic reproductions characterized by the depiction, display, or
description of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
   CHURCH. Any church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building that is used
primarily for religious worship and related religious activities.
   EMPLOYEE. Any and all persons, including independent contractors, who work
in or at or render any services directly related to the operation of a sexually
oriented business.
   ENTERTAINER. Any person who provides adult entertainment within a sexually
oriented business, whether or not a fee is charged or accepted for such
entertainment and whether or not such entertainment is provided as an employee
or independent contractor.
   ESCORT. Any person who, for any form of consideration, agrees or offers to
act as a social companion, guide or date for another person, or who agrees or
offers to privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for
another person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. Any person or business that furnishes, offers to furnish, or
advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business purposes for a
fee, tip, or other consideration.
   INSPECTOR. The Mayor, Chief of Police, Fire Chief, Chief Building Official,
Director of Health & Housing, Zoning Administrator, their agent or
representative, or any city or state employee designated to make inspections
for public safety, fire code, building code, public health, zoning purposes,
violations of this chapter, or for violations of other laws and ordinances of
the city or state.
   LICENSED PREMISES. Any premises that requires a sexually oriented business
license pursuant to this chapter, including any buildings, parking areas and
all other portions of the property of which the licensee has control.
   LICENSEE. Any person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
an application for a license.
   LIVE ADULT ENTERTAINMENT. Any live performance by a person who appears nude
or seminude or any live performance that is characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas.
   MASSAGE PARLOR. Any establishment having a fixed business where any person
engages in or carries on, or permits to be engaged in or carried on, any method
of pressure on, or friction against, or stroking, kneading, rubbing, tapping,
pounding, vibrating or stimulating of the external soft parts of the body with
the hands or with the aid of any mechanical or electric apparatus or appliance
with or without any supplementary aids such as rubbing alcohol, liniments,
antiseptics, oils, powders, creams, lotions, ointments, or other similar
preparations commonly used in this practice. The definition of massage parlor
shall not include the practice of massage:
      (1)   In any state-licensed hospital, nursing home, clinic, medical
office or rehabilitation facility;
      (2)   By a state-licensed physician, surgeon, chiropractor, osteopath,
physical therapist, or massage therapist;
      (3)   By any registered nurse, licensed practical nurse or technician
working under the supervision of a state-licensed physician, surgeon,
chiropractor, osteopath, physical therapist, or certified massage therapist who
shall be present on the licensed premises during the time the service is
rendered;
      (4)   By trainers for any amateur or professional athlete or athletic
team or school athletic program; or
      (5)   By any state-licensed barber or beautician with regard to the
massaging of the neck, face, scalp and hair for cosmetic or beautifying
purposes.
   MASSEUR. Any person who, for any form of consideration, performs massage
activities as described in the previous definition of this section.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 18 years.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person, for any form of consideration,
regularly appears nude or seminude or displays specified anatomical areas to be
observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly
depicted by other persons. A nude model studio shall not include a modeling
class operated by an accredited public or private school or college.
   NUDITY.
      (1)   The appearance of human bare buttocks, anus, genitals, pubic region
or the areola or nipple of the female breast; or
      (2)   A state of dress that fails to opaquely and fully cover human
buttocks, anus, genitals, pubic region or areola or nipple of the female
breast.
   OPERATOR. Any person operating, owning, managing, conducting or maintaining
a sexually oriented business.
   PUBLIC BUILDING. Any building owned, leased or otherwise held by the United
States, the state, the city, any other city, any fire district, any school
district, or any other agency or political subdivision of the United States or
the state, which building is used for governmental purposes.
   PUBLIC PARK AND RECREATION AREA. Public land that has been designated for
park or recreational activities including, but not limited to, a park,
playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, golf
course, basketball or tennis courts, pedestrian or bicycle paths, open space,
wilderness areas, or similar public land within the city that is under the
control, operation, or management of the city, any other city, or the state.
   SCHOOL. Any public, private or parochial educational facility including, but
not limited to, child day care facilities, nursery schools, preschools,
kindergartens, elementary schools, middle schools, junior high schools, high
schools, vocational schools, secondary schools, continuation schools, special
education schools, alternative schools, junior colleges, colleges and
universities. SCHOOL includes the school grounds but does not include any
facility used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally as a school.
   SEMINUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region and areola of the female breast, as well as portions of
the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT. A business or commercial establishment that,
for any form of consideration, offers a place where two or more persons may
congregate, associate or consort for the purpose of specified sexual activities
or the exposure of specified anatomical areas. A sexual encounter establishment
shall not include an establishment where a state-licensed medical practitioner,
psychologist, psychiatrist, or similar professional person engages in medically
approved and recognized sexual therapy.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.
      (1)   An adult arcade, adult-oriented store, adult cabaret, adult mini-
motion picture theater, adult motion picture theater, adult theater, escort
agency, massage parlor, nude model studio or sexual encounter establishment;
      (2)   Any premises to which the public, patrons, or members are invited
or admitted and wherein an entertainer provides adult entertainment, or which
premises are so physically arranged as to provide booths, cubicles, studios,
rooms, compartments or stalls separate from the common areas of the premises
for the purpose of viewing adult-oriented motion pictures or wherein an
entertainer provides adult entertainment, when such adult entertainment is
held, conducted, operated or maintained for profit, direct or indirect; or
      (3)   Any adult entertainment studio or any premises that are physically
arranged and used as such, whether advertised or represented as an adult
entertainment studio, rap studio, exotic dance studio, encounter studio,
sensitivity studio, modeling studio or any other term of like import.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, vulva, or female breasts below a point immediately
above the top of the areola; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Showing of human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or
arousal;
      (2)   Acts of masturbation, sexual intercourse, sodomy, bestiality,
necrophilia, sadomasochistic abuse, fellatio or cunnilingus;
      (3)   Fondling or touching of another person's genitals, pubic region,
buttocks or female breasts;
      (4)   Lap dancing; or
      (5)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of such
activities. Sexual activities is not intended to include any medical
publications or films or bona fide educational publication or films, nor does
it include any art or photography publications that devote at least 25% of the
lineage of each issue to articles and advertisements dealing with subjects of
art or photography. Nor does this definition apply to any news periodical that
reports or describes current events and which, from time to time, publishes
photographs of nude or seminude persons in connection with the dissemination of
the news. Nor does this definition apply to publications or films that describe
and report different cultures and which, from time to time, publish or show
photographs or depictions of nude or seminude persons when describing cultures
in which nudity or seminudity is indigenous to the population.
(Ord. 8183-2018, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 122.03 REQUIRED LICENSE.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
122.10(B), from and after the effective date of this chapter, it shall be
unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct or carry on, or permit to be
engaged in, conducted or carried on, in or upon any premises in the city, the
operation of a sexually oriented business without first obtaining a license to
operate from the city.
   (B)   A license may be issued for only one sexually oriented business
located at a fixed and certain place. Any person who desires to operate more
than one sexually oriented business must have a license for each such business.
   (C)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any owner, operator,
entertainer or employee to knowingly work in or about, or to knowingly perform
any service directly related to, the operation of any unlicensed sexually
oriented business.
   (D)   Each license shall be specific to a licensee and to a location and may
not be sold, assigned or transferred to any other person or location in any
way, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of shares, securities or interests that constitute a
controlling interest in the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar
means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal devise
that transfers ownership or control of the business, except for a transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the licensee or a person
possessing the ownership or control of the licensee.
(Ord. 8183-2018, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 122.04 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   The operator of each sexually oriented business shall submit an
application to the City Clerk together with an application fee of $1,500 prior
to the commencement of business or within 60 days of the effective date of this
chapter for any establishment already open for business. The City Clerk shall
date stamp the application and shall promptly deliver the application to the
Mayor. The application shall be made upon a form prepared by the Mayor and
disseminated by the City Clerk.
   (B)   The application shall be signed and filed by a person having direct
control or management of the proposed sexually oriented business. In instances
where the applicant is a partnership, limited liability company or corporation,
the application shall be signed and filed by a duly authorized partner, member,
manager, officer, director, or majority shareholder of such entity, as the case
may be. The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the applicant.
   (C)   The applicant for a license shall furnish the following information:
      (1)   Name, and business and residence address of the applicant, owner,
operator, manager and any other person having direct control or management of
the sexually oriented business, including all fictitious names. If the
applicant is a partnership, the names of all general partners. If the applicant
is a limited liability company, the names of all members and managers of such
company. If the applicant is a corporation, the names of all officers,
directors and shareholders holding a 10% or greater interest in the total
number of shares of such corporation;
      (2)   Name, and business and residence address of the spouse of each
individual named in division (C)(1) of this section;
      (3)   Name and address of all employees and any other persons directly
involved in the operation of the sexually oriented business, including all
fictitious names;
      (4)   Written proof that the applicant is at least 18 years of age;
      (5)   A recent photograph of the applicant;
      (6)   The applicant's driver's license number and Social Security number
or federal employer identification number;
      (7)   If the applicant is:
         (a)   A partnership, the application shall be accompanied by the
partnership agreement, if any;
         (b)   A limited partnership, the application shall specify the name of
the partnership, the date and state of the filing of its certificate of limited
partnership, and the name and address of its statutory agent for service of
process, and shall be accompanied by a copy of the partnership agreement, if
any, and by evidence that such partnership is in good standing under the laws
of the state;
         (c)   A limited liability company, the application shall specify the
name of the company, the date and state of the filing of its articles of
organization, and the name and address of its statutory agent for service of
process, and shall be accompanied by a copy of the operating agreement, if any,
and by evidence that such company is in good standing under the laws of the
state;
         (d)   A corporation, the application shall specify the name of the
corporation, the date and state of incorporation, and the name and address of
its statutory agent for service of process, and shall be accompanied by a copy
of its bylaws, if any, and by evidence that such corporation is in good
standing under the laws of the state;
         (e)   Operating under a fictitious name, the application shall be
accompanied by a copy of the applicant's recorded trade name certificate.
      (8)   The applicant's sexually oriented business or adult entertainment
license or permit history, which shall include, but not be limited to, whether
such person is currently licensed or has previously operated in this or another
municipality or state under license; the names and locations of such
businesses; whether the applicant has had such license suspended or revoked;
the dates of and reasons for such suspension or revocation; and the business
entity or trade name under which the applicant operated that was subject to the
suspension or revocation. Such history shall include any entity of which the
applicant was a partner, member, officer, director or shareholder;
      (9)   Any criminal convictions of the applicant, operator, employees and
other persons directly involved in the management or control of the sexually
oriented business, to any crime involving moral turpitude, prostitution,
obscenity or other sex-related crimes in any jurisdiction within three years of
the date of filing of the application. Such crimes include, but are not limited
to, obscenity, child pornography, prostitution, patronizing a prostitute,
promoting or permitting prostitution, and sexual assault;
      (10)   The location of the sexually oriented business to be operated by
the applicant, including the street address, legal description of the property,
and telephone number, if any;
      (11)   The exact nature of the sexually oriented business to be conducted
at the location;
      (12)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises
drawn to a designated scale and with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises, including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business.
Such sketch or diagram shall include, without limitation, all doors, windows,
bars, stages, manager's stations, restrooms, dressing rooms, booths, cubicles,
rooms, studios, compartments, stalls, overhead lighting fixtures and any areas
where patrons are not permitted; and
      (13)   A statement by the applicant that he/she is familiar with the
provisions of this chapter, is in compliance with them, and consents to the
authority of the city in licensing and regulating the proposed sexually
oriented business.
      (14)   Authorization for the city, its agents and employees to obtain
information to confirm any statements set forth in the application.
      (15)   Each applicant shall verify, under penalty of perjury, that all
information contained in the application is true, accurate, and complete.
   (D)   The Mayor shall have the right to request additional information and
documentation from the applicant and the proposed business to support or
clarify any information previously provided.
   (E)   If a license to operate a sexually oriented business is granted, the
information furnished in the application, including employee information, shall
be updated within 30 days of any material changes. Such update shall be filed
at the office of the City Clerk, who shall promptly forward such update to the
Mayor.
(Ord. 8183-2018, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 122.05 LICENSING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be responsible for investigating, granting, denying,
renewing, suspending and revoking all sexually oriented business applications
and licenses pursuant to this chapter. Upon receipt of a properly completed
application with all required attachments, the Mayor shall immediately forward
copies of such application to the following city officials for their
investigation:
      (1)   The Chief of Police shall investigate the criminal convictions,
qualifications and suitability of the applicant to be licensed and shall
inspect the premises for compliance with all laws and regulations.
      (2)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall investigate the compliance
of the proposed premises with all applicable fire codes and laws.
      (3)   The Chief Building Official shall investigate the compliance of the
proposed premises with all applicable building codes and laws.
      (4)   The Director of Health and Housing shall investigate the compliance
of the proposed premises with all applicable public health codes and laws.
      (5)   The Zoning Administrator shall investigate the compliance of the
proposed premises with all applicable zoning regulations and laws.
   (B)   Within 30 days of the date the application was filed, all such
investigations to be performed pursuant to division (A) of this section shall
be completed. At the conclusion of each investigation, each city official shall
indicate on the photocopy of the application his/her approval or disapproval of
the application, state the reasons for any disapproval, date it, sign it, and
return it immediately to the Mayor. A city official shall disapprove an
application if he finds that the proposed sexually oriented business will be in
violation of any provision of any statute, code, article, regulation or other
law in effect in the city or state, including this chapter.
   (C)   Within 45 days of the date the application was filed, the Mayor shall
render a decision approving or denying such application and shall file such
decision with the City Clerk and mail such decision to the applicant by
certified mail, return receipt requested. If the Mayor denies the application,
he/she shall state in writing the reasons for such denial. All copies of the
investigations performed pursuant to this section shall be attached to the
Mayor's decision.
   (D)   The Mayor shall issue to the applicant a license to operate a sexually
oriented business within 45 days of the date the application was filed if all
requirements for a sexually oriented business described in this chapter are
met, unless he/she finds that:
      (1)   The applicant is under 18 years of age.
      (2)   The applicant or any other person who will be directly engaged in
the management and operation of the business has been convicted in this or any
other state of any of the crimes specified in §
122.04(C)(9), regardless of the pendency of any appeal, within three years of
the date the application was filed.
      (3)   Within five years of the date the application was filed, the
applicant or his/her spouse has been denied a license by the city to operate a
sexually oriented business, has had a license revoked by the city, or has
failed to correct any material violation of this chapter for more than 30 days,
of which the licensee has received written notice.
      (4)   Within three years of the date the application was filed, the
applicant or his/her spouse has had a license to operate a sexually oriented
business denied or revoked by another municipality or state.
      (5)   The applicant or his/her spouse is overdue on payment to the city
of any taxes, fees, fines or other penalties relating to the sexually oriented
business or the licensed premises.
      (6)   The business as proposed by the applicant, if permitted, would not
have complied with all applicable state and local statutes, codes, ordinances,
laws and regulations including, but not limited to, the fire, building, health,
and zoning codes of the city, and this chapter. If the premises are not in
compliance, the applicant shall be advised of the reasons in writing and what,
if any, measures the applicant can take to bring the premises into compliance
for a license to issue.
      (7)   The premises are not in compliance with all distance requirements
set forth in §
122.09.
      (8)   The applicant has failed to complete the license application as
specified in §
122.04, has failed to provide any supporting or clarifying documentation when
requested by the Mayor, or has provided materially false or misleading
information in the application.
      (9)   The application fee has not been paid.
      (10)   The granting of the application would violate a statute, ordinance
or court order.
      (11)   The applicant, if a limited partnership, limited liability company
or corporation, is not in good standing under the laws of the state.
   (E)   Any failure of the license to issue within 45 days of the date the
application was filed shall constitute a denial subject to appeal.
   (F)   If the sexually oriented business application is denied, the city
shall retain one-half of the permit fee for expenses incurred in the
investigation of the application and shall return the remainder to the
applicant.
   (G)   When an application is denied solely for reasons stated in division
(D)(6) of this section and such violation is correctable, the applicant shall
be given an additional 30 days from the date of such notification of denial to
bring the premises into compliance. Upon verification by inspection that the
correction has been made, which shall be determined no later than 48 hours
after receipt by the Mayor of written notice of such correction, a license
shall be issued to the applicant so long as no new violations or other
disqualifying factors have occurred within such 30 days.
   (H)   As a condition of the license, the entire licensed premises shall be
open to random physical inspections for compliance with this chapter by any
inspector during all hours when the premises are open for business. Any refusal
to allow such inspection shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (I)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name and
residence address of the person to whom it is granted, the expiration date, the
address of the sexually oriented business, and the department or public
official and telephone number to report any violation of this chapter. The
license shall also include a notice that the subject premises are subject to
random inspections by inspectors of the city for compliance with this chapter.
   (J)   The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the sexually oriented business so that it may be easily read at all
times.
   (K)   An inspection of the proposed adult entertainment business by the city
shall be required prior to opening such a business. Such inspection shall occur
after the premises are ready for operation and prior to the opening of the
business to the public. The inspection is to verify that the business
facilities are constructed and can be operated in accordance with the
application submitted and the applicable requirements of the city's licenses
and code, and any other applicable law, rule or regulation.
(Ord. 8183-2018, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 122.06 LICENSE EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Each license issued to a licensee shall expire one year from the date
it is issued, unless it is renewed upon application of the licensee accompanied
by payment of a renewal fee of $1,000. Such application and application fee
shall be submitted by the licensee to the City Clerk at least 30 days before
the expiration date of the license but not more than 90 days before. Provided
the application is filed within such time and the renewal fee paid, the Mayor
shall, prior to the expiration of the previous license, renew the license for
the same licensee at the same location for an additional one year, unless the
random inspection reports in the licensee's file reveal uncorrected violations
of this chapter or uncorrected violations of any fire, building, health or
zoning codes or regulations, of which the licensee has received written notice,
or any condition under §
122.05(D), that could have been grounds for denial of the original application
has since become true. If renewed, the Mayor shall mail the renewed license to
the licensee prior to the expiration date of the previous license. If not
renewed, the Mayor shall mail a notice of nonrenewal to the licensee by
certified mail, return receipt requested, prior to the expiration date of the
previous license, stating the reasons for such nonrenewal. No sexually oriented
business shall continue operations without a renewed license.
   (B)   If there are uncorrected violations of this chapter or uncorrected
violations of any fire, building, health or zoning codes or regulations, of
which the licensee has received written notice, the license renewal shall be
delayed for a maximum of 30 days beyond the original expiration date in order
for all corrections to be completed and inspections done to determine
compliance. If the licensee does not make such corrections of violations within
such 30 days, no license renewal shall be issued. The Mayor shall mail a notice
of nonrenewal to the licensee by certified mail, return receipt requested,
within five days after the extended 30-day period, stating the reasons for such
nonrenewal.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions in division (B) of this section, in no
instance shall a renewal be issued to a licensee who, within the one-year
period of the previous license has had two or more material violations of this
chapter to which the licensee has received written notice, or has had one or
more uncorrected material violations of this chapter pending for over 30 days.
   (D)   Should a license not be renewed for any violation of this chapter, no
license shall issue for the same licensee for five years from the expiration of
the previous license.
(Ord. 8183-2018, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 122.07 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Mayor may suspend a sexually oriented business license for a
period not to exceed 30 days upon his/her determination that a licensee,
operator or employee has materially violated any part of this chapter. The
Mayor shall issue such suspension in writing stating the reasons therefor and
shall notify the licensee by certified mail, return receipt requested,
addressed to the licensee at his/her business or residence address, or by
service by any process server at the usual place of abode of the licensee or at
the licensed premises. If a suspension is issued for a correctable violation,
the Mayor, within 48 hours of his/her receipt of written notice that the
correction has been made, shall terminate such suspension upon verification by
inspection. No sexually oriented business shall continue operations while under
suspension.
   (B)   The Mayor shall revoke any license where any of the following occur:
      (1)   It is discovered that materially false or misleading information or
data was given on, or material facts were omitted from, any application for
sexually oriented business license.
      (2)   Any taxes, fees, fines or other penalties relating to the licensed
premises or required to be paid by this chapter become more than 30 days
delinquent.
      (3)   A licensee, operator, employee or other person directly involved in
the management or control of the sexually oriented business has been convicted
of any crime specified in §
122.04(C)(9).
      (4)   A licensee has had within a one-year period two or more material
violations of this section to which the licensee has received written notice.
      (5)   A licensee has one or more uncorrected material violations of this
section pending for over 30 days to which the licensee has received written
notice.
      (6)   A licensee has failed to correct within 30 days any violation for
which his/her licensee was suspended pursuant to division (A) of this section.
      (7)   The license or any interest therein is transferred in any way.
      (8)   A licensee, operator or employee has knowingly allowed any live
performance or conduct featuring any specified sexual activities to occur on
the licensed premises.
      (9)   A licensee, operator or employee has knowingly allowed any illegal
activity to occur on the licensed premises including, but not limited to,
prostitution, gambling, or the possession, use or sale of controlled
substances.
      (10)   A licensee, operator or employee has knowingly operated the
sexually oriented business while the business's license was under suspension.
   (C)   At least ten days prior to the revocation of any license, the Mayor
shall issue such revocation in writing stating the reasons therefor and shall
notify the licensee by certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to
the licensee at his/her business or residence address, or by service by any
process server at the usual place of abode of the licensee or at the licensed
premises.
   (D)   Subject to §
122.08(F), no sexually oriented business shall continue operations after its
license has been revoked, and no new license shall be issued for the same
licensee for five years from the date of revocation.
(Ord. 8183-2018, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 122.08 APPEAL OF DENIAL, NONRENEWAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Within five days of receipt of notification of a denial, nonrenewal,
suspension, or revocation of a license, the licensee may contest such decision
by submitting a written application to the City Clerk requesting a public
hearing before the City Council.
   (B)   The public hearing shall be scheduled to take place no later than 20
days from the date of the application for such hearing. Not less than ten days
before the date of such hearing, a notice of hearing shall be sent to the
licensee by certified mail, return receipt requested, and posted in a
conspicuous place on the proposed or licensed premises.
   (C)   In such application, the licensee may request that the Mayor or any
other city official who investigated the application or inspected the premises
shall be present at the public hearing. At such hearing, the licensee shall
have the opportunity to present evidence on his behalf and shall have the right
to cross-examine all city officials and witnesses. The City Council shall
conduct the hearing in order and form and with such methods of proof as it
deems fair and appropriate. The rules regarding the admissibility of evidence
shall not be strictly applied, but all testimony shall be given under oath or
affirmation.
   (D)   Immediately following such hearing, the City Council shall enter its
vote to either sustain or overrule the denial, nonrenewal, suspension, or
revocation. Within five days after such hearing, the City Council shall issue
written notice of its final decision, stating the reasons therefor, and shall
forward such decision to the licensee by certified mail, return receipt
requested. If the denial, nonrenewal, suspension, or revocation is overruled,
the Mayor shall immediately issue such license or renewal of license, or revoke
the suspension or revocation, as the case may be.
   (E)   The decision of the City Council may be appealed to the Circuit Court
within 20 days of such written notice of such decision.
   (F)   During the pendency of any appeal of a nonrenewal, suspension, or
revocation, the operations of the sexually oriented business may be maintained
by the licensee, unless otherwise ordered by the court.
(Ord. 8183-2018, passed 4–2-2018)
§ 122.09 LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Adult entertainment businesses or uses are only permittable as a
special use in Light Industry (D-1) and Heavy Industry (D-2) zoning districts
in the city.
   (B)   No sexually oriented business shall be permitted on a site that is
less than 1,500 feet from any other site containing a sexually oriented
business.
   (C)   No sexually oriented business shall be permitted on a site that is
less than 1,000 feet from any site containing a church, school, public
building, public park or recreation area.
   (D)   No sexually oriented business shall be permitted on a site that is
less than 1,000 feet from any residentially zoned land as defined in the City
Zoning Regulations.
   (E)   No sexually oriented business shall be permitted within the same
building, structure or portion thereof that is used for residential purposes or
that contains another sexually oriented business.
   (F)   All distances contained in this section shall be measured by taking
the nearest straight line between the respective lot boundaries of each site.
(Ord. 8183-2018, passed 4-2-2018) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.10 EXISTING SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Any sexually oriented business lawfully operating on the effective
date of this chapter shall be deemed a nonconforming use. No nonconforming use
shall be increased, enlarged, extended or altered except to make it a
conforming use.
   (B)   Sexually oriented businesses existing prior to the effective date of
this chapter shall have 60 days from said effective date to submit an
application for a license pursuant to §§
122.03 and
122.04. Otherwise, such existing sexually oriented business shall cease
operations.
   (C)   Any sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use
is not rendered a nonconforming use by the subsequent location of any church,
school, public building, public park or recreation area within 1,000 feet of
such business, or of any residentially zoned land within 1,000 feet of such
business. However, this division applies only to the renewal of a valid license
and does not apply to a license application submitted after a license has
expired or has been revoked.
(Ord. 8183-2018, passed 4-2-2018) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.11 REQUIREMENTS FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   The following requirements shall apply to all sexually oriented businesses
within the city:
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   No licensee, operator or employee of a sexually oriented business
shall perform or permit to be performed, offer to perform, or allow patrons to
perform any live performance or conduct featuring any specified sexual
activities on the licensed premises.
      (2)   Every sexually oriented business shall comply with all applicable
statutes, codes, ordinances, laws and regulations including, but not limited
to, fire, building, health, and zoning codes of the city and state.
      (3)   Every sexually oriented business shall be physically arranged in
such a manner that the entire interior portion of any room or other area used
for the purpose of viewing adult books, adult videos or adult novelties or
other types of adult entertainment shall be clearly visible from the common
areas of the premises. Visibility into such areas shall not be blocked or
obscured by doors, curtains, partitions, drapes or any other obstruction
whatsoever. Such areas shall be readily accessible at all times to employees
and shall be continuously open to view in their entirety. It shall be a
violation of this chapter to install enclosed booths, cubicles, rooms or stalls
within sexually oriented businesses, for whatever purpose, but especially for
the purpose of providing for the secluded viewing of adult-oriented motion
pictures or other types of adult entertainment.
      (4)   Every sexually oriented business, including common areas,
entryways, parking areas, restrooms, and any room or other area used for the
purpose of viewing adult-oriented motion pictures or other types of adult
entertainment, shall be well lighted. The entire premises shall be equipped
with overhead lighting fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every
place to which patrons are permitted to access at an illumination of not less
than one footcandle as measured at the floor or ground level. It shall be the
duty of the operator and his/her agents to ensure that such illumination is
maintained at all times that any patron is present on the premises.
      (5)   No booths, cubicles, rooms or stalls used for the purpose of
viewing adult-oriented motion pictures or other types of adult entertainment
shall be occupied by more than one person at any one time. No holes shall be
allowed in the walls or partitions that separate each such room from any
adjoining room.
      (6)   No sexually oriented business shall be conducted in such a manner
that permits the observation of any material depicting specified anatomical
areas or specified sexual activities from outside of the building that houses
the sexually oriented business.
      (7)   No sexually oriented business shall advertise the availability at
such business of any activity that would be in violation of this chapter, or
any state or federal law. Nor shall any exterior sign, display, decoration,
show window or other advertising of such business contain any material
depicting, describing or relating to specified anatomical areas or specified
sexual activities.
      (8)   No alcoholic beverage or other intoxicant shall be displayed,
served, ingested or sold on the premises of any sexually oriented business. No
licensee, operator or employee shall be under the influence of any alcoholic
beverage or other intoxicant while working at a sexually oriented business. No
patron who is under the influence of any alcoholic beverage or other intoxicant
shall be allowed to enter any sexually oriented business.
      (9)   No gambling shall be permitted by any person in any sexually
oriented business.
   (B)   Employees.
      (1)   The licensee and operator shall be responsible for the conduct of
all employees while on the licensed premises. Any act or omission of any
employee constituting a violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed the act or omission of the licensee and operator, when such licensee or
operator knew or should have known of such act or omission, for purposes of
determining whether the operating license shall be renewed, suspended or
revoked and whether the licensee and operator shall be subject to the penalties
imposed by this chapter.
      (2)   No licensee or operator shall knowingly employ in any sexually
oriented business any person who, within three years of the commencement of
such employment, has been convicted in this or any other state of any of the
crimes specified in §
122.04(C)(9), regardless of the pendency of any appeal.
   (C)   Minors.
      (1)   No licensee, operator or employee of a sexually oriented business
shall allow or permit any minor to enter into or in any way loiter in or on any
part of the licensed premises, purchase goods or services at the licensed
premises, or work at the licensed premises as an employee.
      (2)   Every sexually oriented business shall display a sign outside each
entrance of such business bearing the words "Sexually Oriented Business.
Persons Under 18 Not Admitted" in legible letters between two and six inches
tall.
   (D)   Hours of business. No sexually oriented business shall open to do
business before 10:00 a.m., nor shall it remain open after 10:00 p.m.
(Ord. 8183-2018, passed 4-2-2018) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.12 LIVE ADULT ENTERTAINMENT.
   In addition to the requirements contained in §
122.11, the following requirements shall apply to all sexually oriented
businesses within the city containing live adult entertainment:
   (A)   No person shall perform live adult entertainment for patrons of a
sexually oriented business except upon a stage at least 18 inches above floor
level and separated from any and all such patrons by a minimum distance of four
feet. A continuous railing three to five feet in height above the floor and
located at least six feet from all points of the performance area shall
separate the performance area and the patron seating areas.
   (B)   Separate dressing room facilities for male and female entertainers
shall be provided that shall not be occupied or used in any way by anyone other
than such entertainers.
   (C)   No entertainer shall expose any specified anatomical areas to any
patron of a sexually oriented business either before or after a performance
including, but not limited to, when such entertainer is entering or exiting the
stage.
   (D)   No entertainer, either before, during or after a performance, shall
have physical contact with any patron of a sexually oriented business while on
the licensed premises.
   (E)   No employee of any sexually oriented business shall engage in any live
adult entertainment while acting as a waiter, host or bartender for such
business.
(Ord. 8183-2018, passed 4-2-2018) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.13 MASSAGE PARLORS.
   In addition to the requirements contained in §
122.11, the following requirements shall apply to all massage parlors within
the city:
   (A)   Facility requirements.
      (1)   Construction of rooms used for toilets, tubs, steam baths and
showers shall be waterproofed with approved waterproof materials.
      (2)   Toilet facilities shall be provided in convenient locations. When
five or more persons of different sexes are on the premises at the same time,
separate toilet facilities shall be provided. Toilets shall be designed as to
the sex accommodated therein.
      (3)   Lavatories or wash basins provided with both hot and cold running
water shall be installed in either the toilet room or vestibule. Lavatories or
wash basins shall be provided with soap in a dispenser and with sanitary
towels.
   (B)   Operating requirements.
      (1)   Every portion of the massage parlor, including appliances and
apparatus, shall be kept clean and operated in a sanitary condition. Adequate
lighting shall be provided, and each room or enclosure where a massage is
administered shall have an illumination of not less than one footcandle as
measured at the floor level while such room or enclosure is occupied.
      (2)   All employees of the massage parlor shall be clean and wear clean
outer garments, which use is restricted to the massage parlor. Provisions for a
separate dressing room for each sex must be available on the licensed premises
with individual lockers for each employee. Doors to such dressing rooms shall
open inward and shall be self-closing.
      (3)   All employees and masseurs shall be modestly attired. Diaphanous,
flimsy, transparent, form-fitting, or tight clothing is prohibited. Clothing
must cover the employee's or masseur's chest at all times. Hemlines of skirts,
dresses or other attire may be no higher than three inches above the top of the
knee.
      (4)   All specified anatomical areas of patrons must be covered by
towels, cloth or undergarments when in the presence of any employee or masseur.
It shall be unlawful for any person in a massage parlor to expose his/her
specified anatomical areas to any other person or for any person to expose the
specified anatomical areas of another person.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for any person in a massage parlor to engage
in any specified sexual activities or to place his/her hand upon, to touch with
any part of his/her body, to fondle in any manner, or to massage any specified
anatomical areas of any other person.
      (6)   All massage parlors shall be provided with clean, laundered sheets
and towels in sufficient quantity and shall be laundered after each use thereof
and stored in an approved sanitary manner.
      (7)   Wet and dry heat rooms, shower compartments and toilet rooms shall
be thoroughly cleaned each day business is in operation. Bathtubs shall be
thoroughly cleaned after each use.
      (8)   No massage parlor shall place, publish, or distribute or cause to
be placed, published, or distributed any advertising material that depicts any
portion of the human body or contains any written text that would reasonably
suggest to prospective patrons that any services are available other than those
services described in Section 5.60.020, or that employees or masseurs are
dressed in any manner other than described in division (B)(3) of this section.
      (9)   All services enumerated in Section 5.60.020 shall be performed in a
cubicle, room, booth or area within the massage parlor, which cubicle, room,
booth or area shall have transparent doors or walls that all activity therein
shall be visible from outside the same.
      (10)   No massage parlor shall carry on, engage in, or conduct business
on any day before 10:00 a.m. or after 10:00 p.m.
      (11)   A full schedule of service rates shall be posted in a prominent
place within the massage parlor in such a manner as to come to the attention of
all patrons. No charges other than the specified rates for specified services
shall be allowed and all patrons shall be notified of the full cost of services
prior to the rendering of any service.
(Ord. 8183-2018, passed 4-2-2018) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any licensee, operator, employee or other person who violates any of
the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of $100 to $2,000 for
each such violation.
   (B)   Each violation of this chapter shall be considered a separate offense,
and any violation continuing more than one hour of time shall be considered a
separate offense for each hour of violation.
   (C)   In addition to any fines or penalties imposed in this section, this
chapter may be enforced by injunctive procedure in a court of competent
jurisdiction. The city may further recover from any violator any and all costs
and fees, including reasonable attorney's fees, expended by the city in
enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   This chapter shall not preclude any additional enforcement action
taken by any appropriate city, state or federal official conducted pursuant to
any applicable ordinance, regulation or law of the city or state or the United
States of America.
   (E)   All remedies and penalties provided for in this section shall be
cumulative and independently available to the city, and the city shall be
authorized to pursue any and all remedies set forth in this section to the
fullest extent allowed by law.
(Ord. 8183-2018, passed 4-2-2018)
CHAPTER 123: ADULT-USE CANNABIS
Section
   
123.001   Purpose and findings
   
123.002   Definitions
   
123.003   License/registration/permit required
   
123.004   Special use permit/petition
   
123.005   Adult-use cannabis facility components
   
123.006   Adult-use cannabis craft grower
   
123.007   Adult-use cannabis cultivation center
   
123.008   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization
   
123.009   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization
   
123.010   Adult-use cannabis processing organization
   
123.011   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization
   
123.012   Adult-use cannabis additional requirements
   
123.013   Co-location of cannabis business establishments
   
123.014   Dissolution of use and revocation of zoning
   
123.015   Limitations on use and possession of adult-use cannabis
   
123.999   Penalties
§ 123.001 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   The City of Belleville City Council finds:
   (A)   The operation of cannabis-related businesses in the city requires
special regulations, limitations, restrictions and supervision in order protect
the health, safety, and welfare of the patrons of such businesses, as well as
the health, safety, and welfare of the city's residents. Further, protecting
order and morality, preventing deterioration of the city's neighborhoods,
promoting retain trade, maintaining property values and ensuring sanitary and
safe public places are desirable objectives of the community and the city's
leaders. This chapter bears a substantial relation to public health, safety and
welfare, and promotes the long-term interests of the City of Belleville
community.
   (B)   The City Council finds that protection of the public is best served by
limiting adult-use cannabis dispensing organizations to a permittable special
use restricted to one within the city, and otherwise prohibiting adult-use
cannabis establishments in the city.
   (C)   A reasonable time, place, and manner regulation of cannabis-related
businesses will provide for the protection of the community and its property
values, and protect the residents of the community from the adverse effects of
such cannabis-related businesses, while providing those who desire to patronize
said establishments such an opportunity in areas within the city which are
appropriate locations of cannabis-related businesses and land uses.
   (D)   Regulations set forth in this chapter are necessary to prevent the
exploitation of minors, to effectively deploy the city's limited law
enforcement resources, and in order to effectively protect the health, safety,
morals, and general welfare of the city and its citizens.
   (E)   The fees required in this chapter are necessary as reasonable fees
imposed to help defray the costs of processing the license applications and the
substantial expenses incurred by the city in regulating adult-use cannabis
business establishments.
   (F)   It is the intent and purpose of this chapter to provide regulations
regarding the cultivation, processing and dispensing of adult-use cannabis
within the corporate limits of the city. Such facilities shall comply with all
regulations provided in the Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-
0027; 410 ILCS 705), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder, and the regulations provided below. In the event that
the Act is amended, the more restrictive of the state or local regulations
shall apply.
(Ord. 8401-2019, passed 12-19-2019)
§ 123.002 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   ACT. The Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027; 410 ILCS
705).
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. An adult-use cannabis cultivation
center, adult-use cannabis craft grower, adult-use cannabis processing
organization, adult-use cannabis infuser organization, adult-use cannabis
dispensing organization or adult-use cannabis transporting organization.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER. A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax
Act (P.A. 101-0027; 410 ILCS 705), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities
to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027; 410
ILCS 705), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027; 410 ILCS
705), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, Illinois Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027; 410 ILCS 705), as it may be amended from
time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, Illinois Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027; 410 ILCS 705), as it may be amended from time-to-
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION. An organization or business
that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to transport
cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a community college
licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational Training Pilot
Program, Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027; 410 ILCS
705), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   AREA ZONED FOR RESIDENTIAL USE. The A-1, A-1A, A-1H, A-1L, A-1M, A-2, B-1,
MH-1 and MH-2 set forth in
Chapter 162 (Zoning) of this Code, as well as similar districts in adjacent
jurisdictions.
   CANNABIDIOL (CBD). A non-psychoactive compound derived from the cannabis
plant, with hemp-derived CBD containing 0.3% or less THC.
   CANNABIS. Has the meaning given that term in the Illinois Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027; 410 ILCS 705).
   ENCLOSED, LOCKED FACILITY. A room, greenhouse, building or other enclosed
area equipped with locks or other security devices that permit access only by
agents/employees of an Adult-Use Cannabis Business Establishment to cultivate,
store and distribute cannabis per the Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act
(P.A. 101-0027; 410 ILCS 705) and any implementation regulations of same.
   HEMP OR INDUSTRIAL HEMP. The plant Cannabis sativa L. and any part of that
plant, whether growing or not, with a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol
concentration of not more than 0.3% on a dry weight basis and includes any
intermediate or finished product made or derived from industrial hemp.
   PRE-EXISTING. Existing as of the date of submission of a zoning petition
under §
123.003 of this chapter.
(Ord. 8401-2019, passed 12-19-2019; Am. Ord. 9369-2025, passed 3-17-2025)
§ 123.003 LICENSE/REGISTRATION/PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for an adult-use cannabis business establishment to
operate in the city without a valid state license under the act, and city
registration and special use permit under this chapter.
(Ord. 8401-2019, passed 12-19-2019)
§ 123.004 SPECIAL USE PERMIT/PETITION.
   An adult-use cannabis business establishment facility, as defined herein,
requiring approval of a special use permit in the respective district(s) in
which they are requested shall be processed in accordance with §§
162.515 through
162.520 (Special Use Permits), and as provided herein. In addition to other
information that may be required of a zoning petition by the zoning
administrator, the petition for a special permitted use under this section
shall include:
   (A)   Relevant parties. The name(s), address(es), and phone numbers(s) of
the owner(s), operator(s) and agents(s) of the cultivation center or
dispensary.
   (B)   Site plan. A site plan of the cultivation center or dispensary, drawn
to scale, showing:
      (1)   Boundaries of the facility site and parcel on which the facility
will be located;
      (2)   Nature of the structure to be used for the purpose of cannabis
production or distribution;
      (3)   Demonstration that the facility meets the conditions for an
enclosed, locked facility;
      (4)   Distance from all facilities and uses requiring setbacks as
described in this chapter;
      (5)   All locally required perimeter setback lines;
      (6)   Public access roads and the location of access drives into the site
with respect to their creating traffic or security hazards;
      (7)   Location of all existing structures on the site with their uses
identified;
      (8)   Current uses, zoning, public roads and structures adjacent to the
site;
      (9)   Location of proposed video surveillance equipment;
      (10)   Proposed lighting of the premises;
      (11)   Proposed signage for the premises;
      (12)   Location, height and nature of any fences or any other barriers
meant to provide security for the site;
      (13)   Nature and adequacy of supervision and security at the site.
   (C)   Setbacks. Evidence demonstrating that the facility would meet all
requirements of state law regarding setbacks required by the act and any
implementing regulations of same.
   (D)   State fees. Evidence demonstrating that all state required fees have
been or can be paid.
   (E)   Limitation of liability. At The time of submission of a zoning
petition under this section, petitioner shall submit a written acknowledgment
that petitioner agrees to and accepts the limitations of liability and the
requirement to indemnify, hold harmless and defend the City of Belleville and
the city's employees and agents, including that: the City of Belleville shall
not be liable to petitioner and its agents/employees, for any damage, injury,
accident, loss, compensation or claim, based on, arising out of, or resulting
from the property for which the zoning is requested being used pursuant to the
Act, including, but not limited to, the following: arrest, seizure of persons
or property, prosecution pursuant to Federal or state laws, any fire, robbery,
theft, mysterious disappearance or any other casualty; or the actions of any
other registrants or persons. This limitation of liability provision shall
survive expiration or the early termination of the registration if the
registration is granted, or dissolution of use or any subsequent change in
zoning.
   (F)   Provision of notice. At the time of submission of a zoning petition
under this section, petitioner shall submit a signed statement certifying that
petitioner has actual notice that, notwithstanding state law and any action by
the City of Belleville, that:
      (1)   Cannabis is a prohibited Schedule I controlled substance under
Federal law;
      (2)   Participation under the act is permitted only to the extent
provided by the strict requirements of the act and subsequent implementing
regulations;
      (3)   Any activity not sanctioned by the Act and subsequent implementing
regulations may be a violation of state law and may result in the revocation of
zoning;
      (4)   Growing, distribution or possessing cannabis in any capacity,
except through a Federally-approved research program, is a violation of Federal
law;
      (5)   Use of cannabis may affect an individual's ability to receive
Federal or state licensure in other areas;
      (6)   Use of cannabis, in tandem with other conduct, may be a violation
of state or Federal law;
      (7)   Participation under the act, or approval of zoning by the City of
Belleville does not authorize any person to violate Federal or state law and,
other than as set out in the act, and does not provide any immunity from or
affirmative defense to arrest or prosecution under Federal or state law; and
      (8)   Petitioner for the zoning of adult-use cannabis business
establishments by the City of Belleville shall indemnify, hold harmless, and
defend the city for any and all civil or criminal penalties resulting from
participation under the act.
   (G)   Affidavit of compliance. Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the
city affirming compliance with the act and this chapter.
(Ord. 8401-2019, passed 12-19-2019)
§ 123.005 ADULT-USE CANNABIS FACILITY COMPONENTS.
   In determining compliance with §
123.004 (special use permit/petition) of this chapter, the following components
of the adult-use cannabis facility shall be evaluated based on the entirety of
the circumstances affecting the particular property in the context of the
existing and intended future use of the properties:
   (A)   Impact of the proposed facility on existing or planned uses located
within the vicinity of the subject property;
   (B)   Proposed structure in which the facility will be located, total square
footage, security installations/security plan and building code compliance;
   (C)   Hours of operation and anticipated number of customers/employees;
   (D)   Anticipated parking demand based on §
162.456 and available private parking supply;
   (E)   Anticipated traffic generation in the context of adjacent roadway
capacity and access to such roadways;
   (F)   Site design, including access points and internal site circulation;
   (G)   Proposed signage plan;
   (H)   Compliance with all requirements provided in §
123.006 (Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower), §
123.007 (Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center), §
123.008 (Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization), §
123.009 (Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization), §
123.010 (Adult-Use Cannabis Processing Organization), or §
123.011 (Adult-Use Cannabis Transporting Organization), as applicable;
   (I)   Other criteria determined to be necessary to assess compliance with §
123.004 (Special Use Permit).
(Ord. 8401-2019, passed 12-19-2019)
§ 123.006 ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER.
   Subject to the requirements of this Chapter and
Chapter 162 (Zoning), an adult-use cannabis craft grower otherwise validly
licensed by the state under the act must also register annually with the City
Clerk and pay an annual registration fee of $5,000 on or before May 1 of each
year; provided, however, that only one adult-use cannabis craft grower shall be
allowed to operate within the city in accordance with Section 55-25(5) of the
Act (410 ILCS 705/55-25(5)). In the zoning district(s) in which an Adult-Use
Cannabis Craft Grower may be located under
Chapter 162 of this Code, the proposed facility must comply with the following:
   (A)   Location.
      (1)   Facility shall not be located within 1,500 feet of the property
line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this section.
      (2)   Facility shall not be located within 400 feet of the property line
of a pre-existing area zoned for residential use.
      (3)   Such distances shall be measured linearly and shall be the shortest
distance between the closest points of the property lines of the places. The
requirements under this subsection shall not be subject to variance.
   (B)   Sales/distribution. Facility shall not conduct any sales or
distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the act.
   (C)   Parking. For purposes of determining required parking, ADULT-USE
CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER shall be classified as “Any manufacturing, warehousing or
other industrial use” per
Chapter 162  “Zoning,” §
162.456 (Number of Parking and Loading Spaces Required), provided, however,
that the City may require that additional parking be provided as a result of
the analysis completed through §
162.003 (Special Uses) herein.
(Ord. 8401-2019, passed 12-19-2019; Ord. 9166-2023, passed 6-20-2023)
§ 123.007 ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER.
   Subject to the requirements of this chapter and
Chapter 162 (Zoning), an Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center otherwise
validly licensed by the state under the act must also register annually with
the City Clerk and pay an annual registration fee of $5,000 on or before May 1
of each year; provided, however, that only two adult-use cannabis cultivation
centers shall be allowed to operate within the city in accordance with Section
55-25(5) of the Act (410 ILCS 705/55-25(5)). In those zoning districts in which
an adult-use cannabis cultivation center may be located, the proposed facility
must comply with the following:
   (A)   Location.
      (1)   Facility shall not be located within 1,500 feet of the property
line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this section.
      (2)   Facility shall not be located within 1,000 feet of the property
line of a pre-existing area zoned for residential use.
      (3)   Such distances shall be measured linearly and shall be the shortest
distance between the closest points of the property lines of the places. The
requirements under this division shall not be subject to variance.
   (B)   Sales/distribution. Facility shall not conduct any sales or
distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the act.
   (C)   Parking. For purposes of determining required parking, Adult-Use
Cannabis Cultivation Center shall be classified as “Any manufacturing,
warehousing or other industrial use” per
Chapter 162 “Zoning,” §
162.456 (Number of Parking and Loading Spaces Required), provided, however,
that the city may require that additional parking be provided as a result of
the analysis completed through §
162.003 (Special Uses) herein.
(Ord. 8401-2019, passed 12-19-2019; Ord. 8912-2021, passed 2-16-2021)
§ 123.008 ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION.
   Subject to the requirements of this chapter and
Chapter 162 (Zoning), an adult-use cannabis dispensing organization otherwise
validly licensed by the state under the Act must also register annually with
the City Clerk and pay an annual registration fee of $5,000 on or before May 1
of each year; provided, however, that only two adult-use cannabis dispensing
organizations shall be allowed to operate within the city in accordance with §
55-25(5) of the Act (410 ILCS 705/55-25(5)). In those zoning districts in which
an adult-use cannabis dispensing organization may be located, the proposed
facility must comply with the following:
   (A)   Location.
      (1)   Facility shall not be located within 1,500 feet of the property
line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this section.
      (2)   Facility shall not be located within 400 feet of the property line
of a pre-existing area zoned for residential use.
      (3)   Such distances shall be measured linearly and shall be the shortest
distance between the closest points of the property lines of the places. The
requirements under this division shall not be subject to variance.
   (B)   Sales/distribution. Facility shall not conduct any sales or
distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the Act.
   (C)   Space. Facility must be a free-standing structure without any other
uses. At least 75% of the floor area of any tenant space occupied by an adult-
use cannabis dispensing organization shall be devoted to the activities of the
dispensing organization as authorized by the Act, and no dispensing
organization shall also sell food for consumption on the premises other than as
authorized in §
123.008(N) below in the same tenant space.
   (D)   Alcohol. Facility shall not sell, distribute or otherwise allow the
use of alcohol on the premises.
   (E)   Exterior display. Facility shall not be maintained or operated in a
manner that causes, creates or allows the public viewing of cannabis, cannabis
infused products, cannabis paraphernalia or similar products from any sidewalk,
public or private right-of-way, or any property other than the lot on which the
dispensary is located. No portion of the exterior of the dispensary shall
utilize or contain any flashing lights, search lights, spotlights, or any
similar lighting system.
   (F)   Drug paraphernalia. Facility shall only display or sell drug
paraphernalia in compliance with the Act.
   (G)   Hours of operation. Facility shall operate only between the hours of
6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
   (H)   Age and access limitations. Facility shall not allow any person who is
not at least 21 years of age on the premises, nor employ anyone under the age
of 21 years.
   (I)   Residential co-location. No person shall reside in or permit any
person to reside in facility or on the property of same.
   (J)   Drive-through services. Drive through services shall be prohibited.
   (K)   Outdoor seating. Outdoor seating shall be prohibited.
   (L)   Loitering. Loitering shall be prohibited at the facility or on the
property of same.
   (M)   Smoking and use of cannabis products. It shall be unlawful to smoke,
inhale, or ingest cannabis products in the waiting room, limited access area,
or restricted access area of the facility. A sign, at least eight and one-half
inches by 11 inches, shall be posted inside the public waiting room, limited
access area, and the restricted access area of the dispensary in a conspicuous
place and visible to a client and shall include the following language:
"Smoking, eating, drinking, or other forms of consumption of cannabis products
is prohibited within this dispensary area."
   (N)   On-premise consumption licenses. Only an adult-use cannabis dispensing
organization licensed by the state and registered and specially permitted under
this chapter may have an on-premises consumption area located adjacent to the
licensed dispensing area. An on-premises consumption license shall be an annual
license and issued or renewed annually on or before May 1, with an annual
license fee of $5,000. Consumption areas shall be subject to inspection at any
time that on-premises consumption may be occurring. Smoke from the on-premises
consumption area shall not migrate into an enclosed area where smoking is
prohibited. The security plan for facility required by §
123.12 (Additional Requirements) shall also reflect adequate provisions to
respond to disruptive conduct and over-consumption. The on-site consumption
permit shall be reviewed annually and may be suspended or revoked following
notice and hearing.
   (O)   Parking. For purposes of determining required parking, the facilities
shall be classified as "all commercial and service uses" per §
162.456 (Number of Parking and Loading Spaces Required), provided, however,
that the city may require that additional parking be provided as a result of
the analysis completed through §
123.005 herein.
(Ord. 8401-2019, passed 12-19-2019; Ord. 8435-2020, passed 3-16-2020; Ord.
8912-2021, passed 2-16-2021)
§ 123.009 ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION.
   Subject to the requirements of this chapter and
Chapter 162 (Zoning), an adult-use cannabis infuser organization otherwise
validly licensed by the state under the act must also register annually with
the City Clerk and pay an annual registration fee of $5,000 on or before May 1
of each year; provided, however, that only one adult-use cannabis infuser
organization shall be allowed to operate within the city in accordance with
Section 55-25(5) of the Act (410 ILCS 705/55-25(5)). In those zoning districts
in which an adult-use cannabis infuser organization may be located, the
proposed facility must comply with the following:
   (A)   Location.
      (1)   Facility shall not be located within 1,500 feet of the property
line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or
residential care home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not
be classified as a public or private school for purposes of this section.
      (2)   Facility shall not be located within 1,000 feet of the property
line of a pre-existing area zoned for residential use.
      (3)   Such distances shall be measured linearly and shall be the shortest
distance between the closest points of the property lines of the places. The
requirements under this subsection shall not be subject to variance.
   (B)   Sales/distribution. Facility shall not conduct any sales or
distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the act.
   (C)   Space. At least 75% of the floor area of any tenant space occupied by
an adult-use cannabis infuser organization shall be devoted to the activities
of the infuser organization as authorized by the act.
   (D)   Parking. For purposes of determining required parking, adult-use
cannabis infuser organizations shall be classified as “Any manufacturing,
warehousing or other industrial use” per
Chapter 162 (Zoning Code) §
162.456 (Number of parking and loading spaces required), provided, however,
that the City may require that additional parking be provided as a result of
the analysis completed through §
123.004 (Special use/petition) herein.
(Ord. 8401-2019, passed 12-19-2019)
§ 123.010 ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION.
   Subject to the requirements of this chapter and
Chapter 162 (Zoning), an adult-use cannabis processing organization otherwise
validly licensed by the state under the act must also register annually with
the City Clerk and pay an annual registration fee of $5,000 on or before May 1
of each year; provided, however, that only one adult-use cannabis processing
organization shall be allowed to operate within the city in accordance with
Section 55-25(5) of the Act (410 ILCS 705/55-25(5)). In those zoning districts
in which an adult-use cannabis processing organization may be located, the
proposed facility must comply with the following:
   (A)   Location.
      (1)   Facility shall not be located within 1,500 feet of the property
line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this section.
      (2)   Facility shall not be located within 1,000 feet of the property
line of a pre-existing area zoned for residential use.
      (3)   Such distances shall be measured linearly and shall be the shortest
distance between the closest points of the property lines of the places. The
requirements under this subsection shall not be subject to variance.
   (B)   Sales/distribution. Facility shall not conduct any sales or
distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the act.
   (C)   Space. At least 75% of the floor area of any tenant space occupied by
an adult-use cannabis processing organization shall be devoted to the
activities of the processing organization as authorized by the act.
   (D)   Parking. For purposes of determining required parking, adult-use
cannabis processing organizations shall be classified as “Any manufacturing,
warehousing or other industrial use” per
Chapter 162 (Zoning Code) §
162.456 (Number of parking and loading spaces required), provided, however,
that the city may require that additional parking be provided as a result of
the analysis completed through §
123.003 (Special Uses) herein.
(Ord. 8401-2019, passed 12-19-2019)
§ 123.011 ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION.
   Subject to the requirements of this chapter and
Chapter 162 (Zoning), an adult-use cannabis transporting organization otherwise
validly licensed by the state under the act must also register annually with
the City Clerk and pay an annual registration fee of $5,000 on or before May 1
of each year; provided, however, that only one adult-use cannabis transporting
organization shall be allowed to operate within the city in accordance with
Section 55-25(5) of the Act (410 ILCS 705/55-25(5)). In those zoning districts
in which an adult-use transporting organization may be located, the proposed
facility must comply with the following:
   (A)   Location.
      (1)   Facility shall not be located within 1,500 feet of the property
line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school, preschool, primary or
secondary school, day care center, day care home or residential care home.
Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not be classified as a
public or private school for purposes of this section.
      (2)   Facility shall not be located within 1,000 feet of the property
line of a pre-existing area zoned for residential use.
      (3)   Such distances shall be measured linearly and shall be the shortest
distance between the closest points of the property lines of the places. The
requirements under this subsection shall not be subject to variance.
   (B)   Sales/distribution. Facility shall not conduct any sales or
distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the act.
   (C)   Space. The adult-use cannabis transportation organization shall be the
sole use of the tenant space in which it is located.
   (D)   Parking. For purposes of determining required parking, adult-use
cannabis transporting organizations shall be classified as “Any manufacturing,
warehousing or other industrial use” per
Chapter 162 (Zoning Code) §
162.456 (Number of Parking and Loading Spaces Required), provided, however,
that the City may require that additional parking be provided as a result of
the analysis completed through §
123.003 (Special Uses) herein.
(Ord. 8401-2019, passed 12-19-2019)
§ 123.012 ADULT-USE CANNABIS ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Facility enhancements. An adult-use cannabis business establishment
shall install and maintain building enhancements, such as security cameras,
lighting or other improvements, as set forth in the special use permit, to
ensure the safety of employees and customers of the adult-use cannabis business
establishments, as well as its environs. Said improvements shall be determined
based on the specific characteristics of the floor plan for an adult-use
cannabis business establishment and the site on which it is located, consistent
with the requirements of the act, but shall minimally include the following:
      (1)   Security and video surveillance.
         (a)   The adult-use cannabis business establishment shall be an
enclosed, locked facility and shall provide and maintain adequate security on
the premises, including lighting, video surveillance and alarms reasonably
designed to ensure the safety of persons and to protect the premises from
theft. The facility shall be enclosed by a minimum eight feet (8') high solid
security fence. The fence must be adequately secure to prevent unauthorized
entry and include gates tied to an access control system.
         (b)   The adult-use cannabis business establishment parking area,
cultivation, production, warehousing areas and shipping bays and the entire
exterior of facility shall be monitored by video surveillance equipment whose
live images can be viewed by facility staff, Belleville Police Department Staff
and those entities that dispatch for the Belleville Police Department, and
continually recorded in a tamper proof format.
         (c)   A sign shall be posted in a prominent location at each entrance
to the facility which reads: “These premises are under constant video
surveillance.”
         (d)   A sign shall be posted in a conspicuous location at each
entrance to the facility that reads: “Persons under 21 years of age not
permitted on these premises.”
         (e)   The zoning administrator shall review the adequacy of lighting,
security and video surveillance installations with assistance from the
Belleville Police Chief.
         (f)   The loading of product shall occur within secure enclosed
shipping bays and shall not be visible from the exterior of the building.
         (g)   An adult-use cannabis business establishment shall report all
criminal activities to all appropriate law enforcement agencies immediately
upon discovery.
      (2)   Exterior signage. Other than the signs as specified in this
section, all exterior signage shall comply with the provisions of Chapter 155
of this code, further subject to the following:
         (a)   Electronic message boards and temporary signs are prohibited.
         (b)   Signs shall not include any realistic or stylized graphical
representation of drug paraphernalia, or cartoonish imagery oriented toward
youth.
   (B)   Age and access limitations. It shall be unlawful for an adult-use
cannabis business establishment to allow any person who is not at least 21
years of age on the premises. An adult-use business establishment shall not
employ anyone under the age of 21 years. Access shall be limited exclusively to
facility staff and local and state officials and those specifically authorized
under the act and any subsequent implementing regulations.
   (C)   Noxious odors. An adult-use cannabis business establishment shall
operate in a manner that prevents odor impacts on neighboring properties and,
if necessary, the facility shall be ventilated with a system for odor control
approved by the St. Clair County Department of Public Health.
(Ord. 8401-2019, passed 12-19-2019)
§ 123.013 CO-LOCATION OF CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS.
   The city may approve the co-location of an adult-use cannabis dispensing
organization with an adult-use cannabis craft grower center or an adult-use
cannabis infuser organization, or both, subject to the provisions of the act
and the special use criteria within the city revised code of ordinances. In a
co-location, the floor space requirements of §§
123.009(3) and
123.010(3) shall not apply, but the co-located establishments shall be the sole
use of the tenant space.
(Ord. 8401-2019, passed 12-19-2019)
§ 123.014 DISSOLUTION OF USE AND REVOCATION OF ZONING.
   (A)   Failure to obtain state license. Should an adult-use cannabis business
establishment fail to provide evidence to the zoning administrator that
facility has achieved its approval of licensure from the State of Illinois
within 180 days of the approval of its zoning by the City Council, its special
use permit shall become null and void, and the zoning of the parcel shall
revert to that which existed prior to the City Council action which provided
the special use permit under this chapter. Within 90 working days of the date
upon which such special use permit was approved, an adult-use cannabis business
establishment may request of the City Council through the zoning administrator
an extension of the aforementioned 180 days for an additional 90 days, upon the
provision of evidence providing the cause of the delay and the need for an
extension. Such additional extensions may be allowed only at the discretion of
the City Council.
   (B)   Failure to comply with state and city regulations. Should an adult-use
cannabis business establishment fail to conform to and meet all laws, rules and
regulations established by the State of Illinois and the City Council pursuant
to the production and distribution of cannabis and other associated products as
allowed under the act and subsequent implementing regulations, this may be
considered a dissolution of use, allowing for the revocation of zoning by the
City Council. Should zoning be revoked, the zoning of the subject parcel shall
revert to that which existed prior to the City Council action which provided
for the special use permit under this chapter.
   (C)   Termination of use. Should an adult-use cannabis business
establishment fail to use the property for the purpose under which the special
use permit was provided for a period of 180 days, this may be considered
dissolution of use, allowing for the revocation of zoning by the City Council.
Should zoning be revoked, the zoning of the subject parcel shall revert to that
which existed prior to the City Council action which provided for the special
use permit under this chapter.
(Ord. 8401-2019, passed 12-19-2019)
§ 123.015 LIMITATIONS ON USE AND POSSESSION OF ADULT-USE CANNABIS.
   (A)   In accordance with Section 10-35 of the Act (410 ILCS 705/10-35), it
shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the following conduct within the
city:
      (1)   Undertaking any task under the influence of cannabis when doing so
would constitute negligence, professional malpractice, or professional
misconduct;
      (2)   Possessing cannabis:
         (a)   In a school bus, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or
caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program
Act;
         (b)   On the grounds of any preschool or primary or secondary school,
unless permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the
compassionate use of medical cannabis pilot program act;
         (c)   In any correctional facility;
         (d)   In a vehicle not open to the public unless the cannabis is in a
reasonably secured, sealed container and reasonably inaccessible while the
vehicle is moving; or
         (e)   In a private residence that is used at any time to provide
licensed child care or other similar social service care on the premises;
      (3)   Using cannabis:
         (a)   In a school bus, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or
caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program
Act;
         (b)   On the grounds of any preschool or primary or secondary school,
unless permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act;
         (c)   In any correctional facility;
         (d)   In any motor vehicle;
         (e)   In a private residence that is used at any time to provide
licensed child care or other similar social service care on the premises;
         (f)   In any public place; or
         (g)   Knowingly in close physical proximity to anyone under 21 years
of age who is not a registered medical cannabis patient under the Compassionate
Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act;
      (4)   Smoking cannabis in any place where smoking is prohibited under the
Smoke Free Illinois Act;
      (5)   Operating, navigating, or being in actual physical control of any
motor vehicle, aircraft, or motorboat while using or under the influence of
cannabis in violation of Section 11-501 or 11-502.1 of the Illinois Vehicle
Code;
      (6)   Facilitating the use of cannabis by any person who is not allowed
to use cannabis under this Act or the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis
Pilot Program Act;
      (7)   Transferring cannabis to any person contrary to this act or the
compassionate use of medical cannabis pilot program act;
      (8)   The use of cannabis by a law enforcement officer, corrections
officer, probation officer, or firefighter while on duty; or
      (9)   The use of cannabis by a person who has a school bus permit or a
commercial driver's license while on duty.
   (B)   As used in this chapter, PUBLIC PLACE means any place where a person
could reasonably be expected to be observed by others. PUBLIC PLACE includes
all parts of buildings owned in whole or in part, or leased, by the state or a
unit of local government. PUBLIC PLACE does not include a private residence
unless the private residence is used to provide licensed child care, foster
care, or other similar social service care on the premises.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the arrest or
prosecution of a person for reckless driving or driving under the influence of
cannabis if probable cause exists. Furthermore, nothing in this chapter shall
prevent a private business from restricting or prohibiting the use of cannabis
on its property, including areas where motor vehicles are parked. Finally,
nothing in this chapter shall require an individual or business entity to
violate the provisions of federal law, including colleges or universities that
must abide by the Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act Amendments of 1989,
that require campuses to be drug free.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any individual or business not licensed as an
adult-use cannabis business establishment under this chapter to offer for sale
or sell hemp or industrial hemp within the city; provided, however, that the
sale of cannabidiol (CBD) shall be exempt from this prohibition.
(Ord. 8401-2019, passed 12-19-2019; Am. Ord. 9369-2025, passed 3-17-2025)
§ 123.999 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any adult-use cannabis business establishment, employee or other
entity and/or person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be subject to a fine of $100 to $500 for each such violation.
   (B)   Each violation of this chapter shall be considered a separate offense,
and any violation continuing more than one hour of time shall be considered a
separate offense for each hour of violation.
   (C)   In addition to any fines or penalties imposed in this section, this
chapter may be enforced by injunctive procedure in a court of competent
jurisdiction. The city may further recover from any violator any and all costs
and fees, including reasonable attorney's fees, expended by the city in
enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   This chapter shall not preclude any additional enforcement action
taken by appropriate city, state or Federal official conducted pursuant to any
applicable ordinance, regulation or law of the city or state or the United
States of America.
   (E)   All remedies and penalties provided for in this section shall be
cumulative and independently available to the city, and the city shall be
authorized to pursue any and all remedies set forth in this section to the
fullest extent allowed by law.
(Ord. 8401-2019, passed 12-19-2019)
CHAPTER 124: USED CAR DEALERS
Section
   
124.01   Definitions
   
124.02   Established used car lots
   
124.03   License
   
124.04   Regulations
   
124.05   Compliance
 
   
124.99   Penalty
§ 124.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Belleville, Illinois.
   USED CAR. Any used or secondhand motor vehicle to which a certificate of
title and license plates have been issued and which motor vehicle has been
registered for use on the highways by a consumer or by a dealer, and any used
or secondhand vehicle, defined as any vehicle required to be titled, trailer
coaches, and trailers weighing over 2,500 pounds.
   USED CAR BUSINESS. The purchase, sale, lease or exchange by any person, firm
or corporation of five or more used cars within a 12-month period or four or
more used cars at any one point in time.
   USED CAR DEALER. A person who brokers, deals, or engages in the purchase,
sale, lease or exchange of five or more used cars within a 12-month period or
four or more used cars at any one point in time.
   USED CAR LOT. A lot where used cars are purchased, displayed, exchanged and
sold.
   USED CAR LOT, ESTABLISHED. Established used car lot means a used car lot in
the City of Belleville or any land in the city maintained and/or used for the
conduct of a used car business.
(Ord. 8410-2020, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 124.02 ESTABLISHED USED CAR LOTS.
   Any established used car lot must have improved grounds complying with the
following minimum requirements upon that portion of the land to be used for
display and/or offering for sale of used cars:
   (A)   Parking spaces for inventory shall be not less than nine feet by 19
feet for each used car.
   (B)   Parking spaces for inventory, employees, and customers shall be
improved with a compacted stone base six inches thick and surfaced with two
inches of asphalt or concrete. This is a minimum design standard intended for
light vehicle parking. Other designs in lieu of this will be considered.
   (C)   Parking areas shall be designed so that ingress to or egress from a
parking space is from an aisle or driveway, not directly from the public right-
of-way.
   (D)   No access way to any parking area shall be located within 25 feet of
any corner formed by the intersection of the rights-of-way of two or more
streets. At intersections where traffic-control devices are installed, the
Director of Residential and Commercial Development Services may increase this
requirement as necessary to prevent hazards.
   (E)   Parking area access ways and public streets shall be aligned to form,
as closely as feasible, right angles.
(Ord. 8410-2020, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 124.03 LICENSE.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall operate as a used car dealer or
engage in a used car business within the city without a used car sales license
as herein provided.
   (B)   A separate used car sales license shall be required for each
established used car lot.
   (C)   The City Clerk is hereby authorized to issue a used car sales license
upon submission by the applicant of a written application on forms to be
provided by the City Clerk and upon compliance by the applicant with the
following requirements:
      (1)   The applicant shall submit to the Residential and Commercial
Development Services of the City of Belleville written detailed plans showing
the layout of land to be used, the portion thereof to be improved as required
herein, method proposed for improvement, drainage, driveways for ingress and
egress, and buildings to be built or existing buildings to be used in the
operation of the established used car lot. The application shall also be
accompanied by written evidence that he/she has obtained all applicable zoning,
use, or site plan approvals/permits required to be obtained prior to operating
a used car lot or business in the proposed location in the city. The granting
of a used car sales license shall be contingent on obtaining all applicable
zoning, use, or site plan approvals/permits.
      (2)   The applicant must furnish evidence that he/she possesses a valid
State of Illinois used vehicle dealer's license for the proposed location.
      (3)   Payment of an annual City of Belleville used car sales license fee
of $50.
   (D)   All city used car sales licenses issued under this chapter shall be
for a period of one year expiring on April 30 of each year. The City Clerk is
hereby authorized to issue a renewal city used car license upon expiration of
the initial license upon written application on forms to be provided by the
City Clerk accompanied by the required renewal city used car sales license fee
and a determination by the City Clerk that the applicant is complying with all
of the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   This chapter shall comply with
Chapter 110 (General Licensing Provisions); provided, however, that, in the
event of conflicting provisions, this
Chapter 124 shall govern and control.
(Ord. 8410-2020, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 124.04 REGULATIONS.
   Each licensee under this chapter shall comply with the following
regulations:
   (A)   Keep his/her premises in a neat and clean condition. He/she shall not
allow any used motor vehicles that are part of his/her inventory to encroach
upon any right-of-way of the city.
   (B)   Not allow any loud or boisterous noises to emanate from his/her place
of business, either by persons congregating there or by the playing of
recording instruments, radios, and/or television sets or other sound-producing
equipment.
   (C)   Any light(s) used to illuminate any parking area shall be arranged or
shielded so as to confine direct light rays within the parking area boundary
lines to the greatest extent practicable. Further, a minimal amount of lighting
in parking lots must be left on after dusk, whether or not the building is
occupied, in order to ensure safety for any emergency that may occur on or
around the lot.
   (D)   Inventory shall be parked within approved parking spaces/areas.
   (E)   Provide for adequate customer and employee parking as required in §§
162.435 through 162.465.
   (F)   Premises shall not be used for storage of vehicles.
   (G)   Maximum inventory - 375 square feet of gross area shall be deemed one
parking space for inventory. If computation of the number of inventory parking
required by this section results in a fractional space, any fraction of one-
half or more shall be counted as one space.
(Ord. 8410-2020, passed 1-21-2020; Am. Ord. 8864-2020, passed 8-17-2020)
§ 124.05 COMPLIANCE.
   Any person, firm, or corporation operating a used car business and/or lot
shall comply with all provisions of this chapter by April 30, 2021.
(Ord. 8410-2020, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 124.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any provision of this
chapter shall be fined in an amount not less than $250 nor more than $ 1,000.
Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute
a separate offense and shall be punishable as such. The court shall also order
as part of the judgment that the defendant comply with all applicable codes and
ordinances relating to the property which is the subject of the violation.
(Ord. 8410-2020, passed 1-21-2020)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
Section
   
130.01   Unlawful assembly
   
130.02   Disorderly conduct
   
130.03   Beggars and panhandlers
   
130.04   Discharge of firearms
   
130.05   Playing ball
   
130.06   Fireworks
   
130.07   Burning
   
130.08   Hotel registers
   
130.09   Curfew established
   
130.10   Littering
   
130.11   Theft
   
130.12   Drug paraphernalia prohibited
   
130.13   Loitering and drug activity prohibited
   
130.14   Graffiti
   
130.15   Local state of emergency
   
130.16   Billposting regulations
   
130.17   Truancy
   
130.18   Trespassing; school trespassing
   
130.19   Halloween solicitation
   
130.20   Registered sex offenders; residence regulations
   
130.21   Public camping
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   A person commits unlawful assembly when two or more persons assemble:
      (1)   With intent to commit any unlawful act by force; or
      (2)   With intent to carry out any purpose in such manner as will disturb
or threaten the public peace; or
      (3)   Without unlawful purpose, but the participants so conduct
themselves in a disorderly manner as to disturb or threaten the public peace.
   (B)   No person or group of persons shall hold a demonstration, protest,
march, parade, or picket within the confines of any city festival, picnic,
carnival or fair.
      (1)   The Chief of Police or designee shall convey time, place and manner
restrictions to any organizer of a demonstration, protest, march, parade, or
picket after a written request is made to the Chief of Police by the organizer.
      (2)   All restrictions made by Chief of Police or designee will be
content neutral, narrowly tailored and will provide open, ample alternate
channels for communicating the speaker’s message to reach their intended
audience.
   (C)   No person shall fail to obey a lawful order of dispersal by a person
known by him or her to be a peace officer under circumstances where an unlawful
assembly has been declared.
   (D)   Upon observation of an unlawful assembly, a sworn peace officer may
issue a warning to the gathering or assembly that it constitutes an unlawful
assembly and is required to disperse. The reasonable attempt to provide such a
verbal order to disperse is a condition precedent to a violation of this
section.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-1) (Ord. 8997-2021, passed 11-1-2021) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Unlawful assembly, see 20 ILCS 1805/86
§ 130.02 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   A person commits disorderly conduct when he or she knowingly:
      (1)   (a)   Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to alarm or
disturb another and to provoke a breach of the peace;
         (b)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner to another a
false alarm to the effect that a bomb or other explosive of any nature or a
container holding poison gas, a deadly biological or chemical contaminant, or
radioactive substance is concealed in a place where its explosion or release
would endanger human life, knowing at the time of the transmission that there
is no reasonable ground for believing that the bomb, explosive or a container
holding poison gas, a deadly biological or chemical contaminant, or radioactive
substance is concealed in the place;
         (c)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted a threat of destruction of
a school building or school property, or a threat of violence, death, or bodily
harm directed against persons at a school, school function or school event,
whether or not school is in session;
         (d)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted a false report to any
public safety agency without the reasonable grounds necessary to believe that
transmitting the report is necessary for the safety and welfare of the public;
or
         (e)   Calls or texts the number 911 or transmits or causes to be
transmitted in any manner to a public safety agency or public safety answering
point for the purpose of making or transmitting a false alarm or complaint and
reporting information when, at the time the call, text, or transmission is
made, the person knows there is no reasonable ground for making the call, text,
or transmission and further knows that the call, text, or transmission could
result in the emergency response of any public safety agency;
         (f)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted a false report to the
Department of Children and Family Services under Section 4 of the “Abused and
Neglected Child Reporting Act”;
         (g)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted a false report to the
Department of Public Health under the Nursing Home Care Act, the Specialized
Mental Health Rehabilitation Act of 2013, or the ID/DD Community Care Act;
         (h)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted in any manner to the
Police Department or Fire Department, or any privately owned and operated
ambulance service, a false request for an ambulance, emergency medical
technician-ambulance or emergency medical technician-paramedic knowing at the
time there is no reasonable ground for believing that the assistance is
required;
         (i)   Transmits or causes to be transmitted a false report under
Article II of “An Act in relation to victims of violence and abuse”, approved
September 16, 1984, as amended; or
         (j)   While acting as a collection agency as defined in the Collection
Agency Act or as an employee of the collection agency, and while attempting to
collect an alleged debt, makes a telephone call to the alleged debtor which is
designed to harass, annoy or intimidate the alleged debtor.
(720 ILCS 5/26-1)
      (2)   Transmits in any manner to the Fire Department a false alarm of
fire, knowing at the same time of such transmission that there is no reasonable
ground for believing that such fire exists;
      (3)   Transmits in any manner to any police officer, public officer or
public employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed,
knowing at the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for
believing that such an offense has been committed;
      (4)   Enters upon the property of another and, for a lewd or unlawful
purpose, deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window
or other opening in it;
      (5)   Does any act which will disturb the public peace and quiet or is
likely to provoke a breach of the peace;
      (6)   Refuses to comply with the reasonable and proper orders of a police
officer in the discharge of his or her duties;
      (7)   Assaults, strikes or fights with another with or without his or her
consent;
      (8)   Causes or makes any unnecessary loud noise; and/or
      (9)   Permits conduct as defined in divisions (A)(1), (A)(5), (A)(6), (A)
(7) or (A)(8) above in or upon premises in the city owned or possessed by him
or her or under his or her management or control.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-2)
   (B)   Drunkenness: no person shall, in the city, be found in a state of
intoxication, or drunk, in any street or other public place, or shall be found
drunk lying or roving about the streets, alleys or sidewalks of the city, or
the private grounds of any of the inhabitants thereof, or being drunk as
aforesaid, shall disturb the peace, order and quiet of the city, or the peace
and quiet of the citizens thereof, by loud and unusual noises, disorderly
conduct, indecent language, public urination, defecation or other behavior or
in any other manner.
(Prior1960 Code, § 30-1-6)
(Ord. 2892, passed - -; Ord. 3454, passed 9-19-1977) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 BEGGARS AND PANHANDLERS.
   (A)   (1)   As used herein, PANHANDLING means any solicitation made in
person upon any street, public place or park in the city in which a person
requests an immediate donation of money or other gratuity from another person
and includes, but is not limited to, seeking donations:
         (a)   By vocal appeal or for music, singing or other performance; and
         (b)   Where the person being solicited receives an item of little or
no monetary value in exchange for a donation under circumstances where a
reasonable person would understand that the transaction is in substance a
donation.
      (2)   However, panhandling shall not include the act of passively
standing or sitting, nor performing music, singing or other street performance,
with a sign or other indication that a donation is being sought, without any
vocal request other than in response to an inquiry by another person.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to engage in an act of panhandling on any day
after sunset or before sunrise.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to engage in an act of panhandling at any city
approved sanctioned or sponsored festival, parade, fair, concert, dance,
memorial service, open air market activity or any other event open to the
public during the hours of operation.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to engage in an act of panhandling inside any
commercial establishment, business, retail establishment, restaurant, public
school, daycare center, hospital, medical building, health clinic, dental
office, library, public housing complex or facility, public/private parking
lots, senior activities center or senior living center without the expressed
consent of the owner, manager or other individual having authority to authorize
entry.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to engage in an act of panhandling when either
the panhandler or the person being solicited is located at any of the following
locations:
      (1)   At a bus stop, in a public transportation vehicle or public
transportation facility;
      (2)   In a vehicle which is parked or stopped on a public street or
alley;
      (3)   In a sidewalk cafe; or
      (4)   Within 20 feet in any direction from an automatic teller machine or
entrance to a bank, savings and loan association or credit union.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to block any public street or sidewalk or impede
the flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic while engaged in an act of
panhandling.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful to engage in an act of panhandling in an
aggressive manner, including any of the following actions:
      (1)   Touching the solicited person without the solicited person's
consent;
      (2)   Panhandling a person while such person is standing in line and
waiting to be admitted to a commercial establishment;
      (3)   Blocking the path of a person being solicited or the entrance to
any building or vehicle;
      (4)   Following behind, ahead or alongside a person who walks away from
the panhandler after being solicited;
      (5)   Using profane or abusive language, either during the solicitation
or following a refusal to make a donation, or making any statement, gesture or
other communication which would cause a reasonable person to be fearful or feel
compelled; and/or
      (6)   Panhandling in a group of two or more persons.
   (H)   Each act of panhandling prohibited herein shall constitute a public
nuisance and each act shall be a separate violation.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-8) (Ord. 7302, passed 8-17-2009; Am. Ord. 8865-2020, passed
8-17-2020; Am. Ord. 9339-2024, passed 11-4-2024) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   The provisions of the Firearm Concealed Carry Act, 430 ILCS 66/1 et
seq., are adopted by reference as if set out in full herein.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-9)
   (B)   No person shall, within the city, fire or discharge any firearms or
air guns without written permission from the Mayor first obtained, which
permission shall prescribe the limits within which such firing may be done, and
may be revoked at any time after it has been granted.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-11)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 PLAYING BALL.
   No person shall, on any street or other public place in the city, fly any
kite, erecting any goals, hoops and the like, or play any game of ball or sport
or engage in any amusement or practice having a tendency to injure or annoy any
person passing in the streets or on the sidewalks by impeding both vehicular
and/or pedestrian traffic.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-10) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Definitions. The city hereby adopts the definitions of the terms
contained in the Pyrotechnic Use Act (425 ILCS 35/1 et seq.) and as promulgated
in the corresponding rules of the Illinois Office of the State Fire Marshal (41
Ill. Admin. Code 235), including but not limited to the terms “consumer
fireworks”, “consumer fireworks display”, “consumer operator”, “consumer
retailer”, “display fireworks”, “flame effect”, “person” and “pyrotechnic
display”. The term “novelty fireworks” is defined to include the following
items that are not deemed “consumer fireworks” under the Pyrotechnic Use Act
(425 ILCS 35/1 et seq.): snake or glow worm pellets; smoke devices; trick
noisemakers known as “party poppers”, “booby traps”, “snappers”, “trick
matches”, “cigarette loads” and “auto burglar alarms”; sparklers; toy pistols,
toy canes, toy guns or other devices in which paper or plastic caps containing
twenty-five hundredths grains or less of explosive compound are used, provided
they are so constructed that the hand cannot come in contact with the cap when
in place for the explosion; and toy pistol paper or plastic caps that contain
less than twenty hundredths grains of explosive mixture.
   (B)   Prohibition. Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful for
any person, firm, co-partnership or corporation to knowingly possess, offer for
sale, expose for sale, sell at retail, or use or explode any display fireworks,
flame effects or consumer fireworks in the corporate city limits of the city.
   (C)   Requirements. All pyrotechnic displays in the corporate city limits of
the city shall be allowed only by permit upon full compliance with the
provisions of the Pyrotechnic Use Act (425 ILCS 35/1 et seq.) and as
promulgated in the corresponding rules of the Illinois Office of the State Fire
Marshal (41 Ill. Admin. Code 235), expressly adopted herein by the city, and
shall be in addition to any other operational or business permits required. The
sale and use of novelty fireworks are not subject to the requirements of this
section.
      (1)   Pyrotechnic displays. Any person, firm, co-partnership or
corporation shall file with the City Fire Department, an application for a
permit authorizing a pyrotechnic display, not less than 15 days prior to the
event, and shall remit fees in full according to the following divisions below.
      (2)   Pyrotechnic display fee. A fee of $300 shall accompany the
completed application for a public pyrotechnic display permit (includes cost of
three-hour stand-by fire crew and equipment).
      (3)   Application. The application and the requirements contained herein
must be completed and submitted for a pyrotechnic display permit (Parts A, B, C
and D). The application shall include completion of the Fire Department display
checklist (Part E) prior to any permit being issued.
      (4)   Completion. Upon completion of all required documentation and
approval of the City Fire Department, the city may issue a permit for the
pyrotechnic display, which shall specifically state the individual/corporation
authorized to conduct the permitted activity. Any such issued permit is not
transferable.
      (4)   Indemnification. Any person, firm, co-partnership or corporation
issued a permit under this section agrees to indemnify the city for any and all
liability of any type arising from the operation of a pyrotechnic display,
including but not limited to injury to persons or animals and any and all
damage to any property real or personal, private or public.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-15) (Ord. 3493, passed 5-2-1978; Ord. 7913, passed 11-16-
2015) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 BURNING.
   (A)   Recreational fires. Division (A) above shall not apply to recreational
fires that conform to the following guidelines:
      (1)   Recreational burning shall be allowed only by use of gas or wood
stoves, gas or wood fire places, fire rings and other type of apparatuses
constructed or manufactured for the purpose of recreational burning; however,
these devices are only permitted to be fueled by dry seasoned firewood,
charcoal or commercial fire logs. When using outdoor fireplaces, the
manufacturer’s recommendations must be followed;
      (2)   Fifteen feet from structure;
      (3)   A permit is not required for recreational burning;
      (4)   Recreational fires must be extinguished by 1:00 a.m.;
      (5)   If a police or fire official is required to investigate a fire, he
or she will determine if it is a recreational fire and that all rules and
regulations are being followed. He or she will have the authority to have the
fire extinguished, spectators dispersed and citations issued; and
      (6)   Bar-b-que pits or grills do not fall under these regulations, as
long as they are being used for its intended cooking purposes with approved
fuels in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions.
   (C)   Residential bonfires. Division (A) above shall not apply to
residential bonfires that have obtained a permit from the Fire Chief’s office.
A residential bonfire shall conform to the following guidelines.
      (1)   Residential bonfires shall be placed on the ground and all
requirements per the bonfire permit are to be followed.
      (2)   The residential bonfire permit must be on location and in
possession of the applicant until the fire has been thoroughly extinguished.
      (3)   The fire location must be at least 25 feet from the closest
structure.
      (4)   The fire must be attended by an adult at all times with fire
extinguishing equipment available for immediate use.
      (5)   The maximum size of a residential bonfire shall be three feet wide
by three feet long by three feet high.
      (6)   Only seasoned dry wood will be permitted for burning.
      (7)   Sustained winds shall not exceed ten mph.
      (8)   Residential bonfires will be out by 11:00 p.m. and will be
completely extinguished.
      (9)   If a police or fire official is required to investigate a fire, he
or she will determine if all rules and regulations are being followed. He or
she will have the authority to have the fire extinguished, spectators dispersed
and citations issued.
      (10)   Residential bonfire permits must be obtained from the Fire Chief’s
office and a fee of $10 is required.
   (D)   Special event bonfires. Division (A) above shall not apply to special
event bonfires that have obtained a permit from the Fire Chief’s office. A
special event bonfire shall conform to the following guidelines.
      (1)   Special event bonfires shall be placed on the ground and all
requirements per the special event bonfire permit are to be followed.
      (2)   The special event bonfire permit must be on location and in
possession of the applicant until the fire has been thoroughly extinguished.
      (3)   The fire location must be at least 100 feet from the closest
structure.
      (4)   The fire must be attended by two city firefighter personnel, one
City Fire Department apparatus and adult members at all times with fire
extinguishing equipment available for immediate use.
      (5)   The maximum size of a special event bonfire shall be ten feet wide
by ten feet long by ten feet high.
      (6)   Only seasoned dry wood will be permitted for burning.
      (7)   Sustained winds shall not exceed ten mph.
      (8)   Bonfires will be out by 11:00 p.m. and will be completely
extinguished.
      (9)   If a police or fire official is required to investigate a fire, he
or she will determine if it is a recreational fire and that all rules and
regulations are being followed. He or she will have the authority to have the
fire extinguished, spectators dispersed and citations issued.
      (10)   Permits must be obtained from the Fire Chief’s office and a fee of
$300 is required.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-16) (Ord. 7409, passed 7-6-2010; Ord. 7417, passed 7-19-
2010) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08 HOTEL REGISTERS.
   Hotel, motel and boardinghouse keepers shall keep a register, and shall
require all persons temporarily stopping at such hotel, motel or boardinghouse
to register their names and places of residence. Such register shall be at all
times open to the inspection of any city officer.
(Prior1960 Code, § 30-1-27) (Ord. 6604, passed 12-15-2003) Penalty, see §
130.99
Editor’s note:
   For case law, please see City of Los Angeles, Cal. v. Patel, et al., 2008
U.S. Dist. LEXIS 78914 (C.D. Cal., Sept. 5, 2008); 686 F.3d 1085 (9th Cir.
2012); 738 F.3d 1058 (9th Cir. 2013) en banc., 576 U.S. 13-1175
§ 130.09 CURFEW ESTABLISHED.
   The city’s curfew regulation is applicable to children under 17. The city’s
objectives are to reduce and protect juveniles from violence, gang activity and
crime and to further strengthen parental responsibility for children without
unduly infringing upon the constitutional rights of parents to direct their
children’s upbringing.
   (A)   Definitions.
      ABUTTING. Adjoining, be next to or share a common boundary.
      CURFEW HOURS FOR PERSON(S) LESS THAN 15.
         (a)   Between 10:00 p.m. Friday and 6:00 a.m. Saturday;
         (b)   Between 10:00 p.m. Saturday and 6:00 a.m. Sunday; and
         (c)   Between 9:00 p.m. on Sunday through Thursday, inclusive, and 6:
00 a.m. on the following day.
      CURFEW HOURS FOR PERSON(S) LESS THAN 17.
         (a)   Between 11:00 p.m. Friday and 6:00 a.m. Saturday;
         (b)   Between 11:00 p.m. Saturday and 6:00 a.m. Sunday; and
         (c)   Between 10:00 p.m. on Sunday through Thursday, inclusive, and 6:
00 a.m. on the following day.
      EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited
to, a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited including, but not limited to, any place
of amusement or entertainment.
      GUARDIAN. A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor; or a public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
a court.
      KNOWINGLY. Deliberately, purposely, consciously, intentionally, on
purpose, willfully or wittingly; any person possessing full knowledge and
deliberation.
      MINOR. Any person less than 17 years of age.
      PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent or step-parent
of another person; or at least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or
guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities and shops.
      REMAIN. To: linger or stay; or fail to leave premises when requested to
do so by a police officer or the owner, operator or other person in control of
the premises.
      SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   (B)   Offenses.
      (1)   A minor commits an offense if he or she remains in any public place
or on the premises of any establishment during curfew hours.
      (2)   A parent or guardian of a minor or other person in custody or
control of a minor commits an offense if he or she knowingly permits the minor
to remain in any public place or on the premises of any establishment during
curfew hours.
   (C)   Exemptions. It is an exemption to prosecution under division (B) above
that the minor was:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian or other person in
custody or control of the minor;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental
agency, a civic organization or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor, or going to or returning home, without any detour
or stop, from an official school, religious or other recreational activity
supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental agency, a
civic organization or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly; and/or
      (9)   Married or had been married or is an emancipated minor under the
Emancipation of Minors Act.
   (D)   Enforcement. Before taking any enforcement action under this section,
a law enforcement officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for
being in the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an
arrest under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an
offense of division (B) above has occurred and that, based on any response and
other circumstances, no exemption in division (C) above is present.
   (E)   Enforcement alternatives. If an officer reasonably believes a curfew
violation has occurred, the officer may take the following actions:
      (1)   Issue a “written warning” notice; send or take the minor home;
      (2)   Complete a field interview report (FIR); send or take the minor
home;
      (3)   Send the minor home depending on the following factors; age, time,
location from residence; is the minor under the influence of alcohol or drugs
or recidivism rate (previous curfew violations or criminal history);
      (4)   Issue the minor a “non-traffic” citation;
      (5)   Take the minor into custody; and/or
      (6)   Issue a “written warning” notice or “non-traffic” citation to the
minor’s parent(s) or legal guardian under division (B)(2) above.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-33) (Ord. 7505, passed 7-5-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.10 LITTERING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to cast, throw,
deposit or leave any trash, waste, article, glass, weeds, garbage or refuse
material of any kind in or upon any alley, street, sidewalk or in any public
place within the city; nor shall any person, firm or corporation cast, throw,
deposit or leave any of the aforementioned articles anywhere within the city in
such manner that they may be carried or deposited in whole or in part by the
action of the wind, in any of the aforementioned places.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-34) (Ord. 7100, passed 4-8-2008) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.11 THEFT.
   A person commits theft when he or she knowingly:
   (A)   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner,
having a value of not exceeding $500 in value;
   (B)   Obtains by deception control over property of the owner, having a
value of not exceeding $500;
   (C)   Obtains by threat control over property of the owner, having a value
of not exceeding $500; or
   (D)   Obtains control over stolen property having a value of not exceeding
$500, knowing the property to have been stolen by another or under such
circumstances as would reasonably induce him or her to believe that the
property was stolen and:
      (1)   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property;
      (2)   Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the property in such manner as
to deprive the owner permanently of such use or benefit; or
      (3)   Uses, conceals or abandons the property knowing such use,
concealment or abandonment probably will deprive the owner permanently of such
use or benefit.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-35) (Ord. 2846, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.12 DRUG PARAPHERNALIA PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
         (a)   All equipment, products and materials of any kind which are
used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting,
producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
introducing into the human body a controlled substance in violation of this Act
(meaning the Controlled Substances Act of the state). It includes, but is not
limited to:
            1.   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived;
            2.   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing
controlled substances;
            3.   Isomerization devices used, intended for use, or designed for
use in increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled
substance;
            4.   Testing equipment used, intended for use or designed for use
in identifying, or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of
controlled substances;
            5.   Scales and balances used, intended for use or designed for use
in weighing or measuring controlled substances;
            6.   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride,
mannitol, mannite, dextrose and lactose, used, intended for use or designed for
use in cutting controlled substances;
            7.   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use or designed
for use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining,
marijuana;
            8.   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used,
intended for use or designed for use in compounding controlled substances;
            9.   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used,
intended for use, or designed for use in packaging small quantities of
controlled substances;
            10.   Containers and other objects used, intended for use or
designed for use in storing or concealing controlled substances;
            11.   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, intended
for use or designed for use in parenterally injecting controlled substances
into the human body;
            12.   Objects used, intended for use or designed for use in
ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish or
hashish oil into the human body, such as:
               a.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic
pipes with or without screens, hashish heads or punctured metal bowls;
               b.   Water pipes;
               c.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
               d.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
               e.   Roach clips: meaning objects used to hold burning material,
such as a marijuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be
held in the hand;
               f.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
               g.   Chamber pipes;
               h.   Carburetor pipes;
               i.   Electric pipes;
               j.   Air-driven pipes;
               k.   Chillums;
               l.   Bongs; and
               m.   Ice pipes or chillers.
         (b)   In determining whether an object is DRUG PARAPHERNALIA, a court
or other authority should consider, in addition to all other logically relevant
factors, the following:
            1.   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
            2.   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or of anyone in
control of the object, under any state or federal law relating to any
controlled substance;
            3.   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of this Act;
            4.   The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
            5.   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the
object;
            6.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner,
or of anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he or she
knows, or should reasonably know, intend to use the object to facilitate a
violation of this Act; the innocence of an owner, or of anyone in control of
the object, as to a direct violation of this Act shall not prevent a finding
that the object is intended for use, or designed for use as DRUG PARAPHERNALIA;
            7.   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object
concerning its use;
            8.   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
            9.   National and local advertising concerning its use;
            10.   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
            11.   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
            12.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of
the object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise;
            13.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in
the community; and
            14.   Expert testimony concerning its use.
   (B)   Forfeiture of property.
      (1)   All articles defined in division (A) above shall be subject to
forfeiture.
      (2)   Property subject to forfeiture under this section may be seized by
any peace officer upon process issued by any court having jurisdiction over the
property. Seizure by any police officer without process may be made:
         (a)   If the property subject to seizure has been the subject of a
prior judgment in favor of the city in an ordinance violation proceeding; and
         (b)   If there is probable cause to believe that the property is
directly or indirectly dangerous to health or safety.
      (3)   In the event of seizure pursuant to division (B)(2) above,
proceedings under division (B)(4) below shall be instituted promptly.
      (4)   Property taken or detained under this section shall not be subject
to replevin, but is deemed to be in the custody of the Chief of Police, subject
only to the order and judgments of the Circuit Court having jurisdiction over
the forfeiture proceedings. When property is seized under this section, the
Chief of Police may:
         (a)   Place the property under seal;
         (b)   Remove the property to a place designated by him or her; or
         (c)   Take custody of the property and remove it to an appropriate
location for destruction.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-38) (Ord. 3759, passed 12-29-1982) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.13 LOITERING AND DRUG ACTIVITY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall loiter in or near any thoroughfare, place open to the
public or near any public or private place in a manner and under circumstances
manifesting the purpose to engage in drug-related activity contrary to any of
the provisions of 720 ILCS 570/100 et seq.
   (B)   Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining whether
such purpose is manifested are:
      (1)   Such person is a known unlawful drug user, possessor or seller. For
purposes of this section, a KNOWN UNLAWFUL DRUG USER, POSSESSOR OR SELLER is a
person who has, within the knowledge of the arresting officer, been convicted
in any court within the state of any violation involving the use, possession or
sale of any controlled substance, as defined in 410 ILCS 615/1 et seq., or such
person has been convicted of any violation of any of the provisions of said
section or substantially similar laws of any political subdivision of the state
or of any other state; or a person who displays physical characteristics of
drug intoxication or usage, such as “needle tracks”, burned or calloused thumb
or index fingers, underweight, nervous and excited behavior;
      (2)   Such person is currently subject to a court order prohibiting his
or her presence in a high drug activity geographic area;
      (3)   Such person behaves in such a manner as to raise a reasonable
suspicion that he or she is about to engage in or is then engaged in an
unlawful drug-related activity, including, by way of example only, such person
acting as a “lookout” or hailing or stopping cars;
      (4)   Such person is physically identified by the officer as a member of
a “gang” or association which has its purpose of illegal drug activity;
      (5)   Such person transfer small objects or packages in a furtive
fashion;
      (6)   Such person takes flight or manifestly endeavors to conceal himself
or herself upon the appearance of a police officer;
      (7)   Such person manifestly endeavors to conceal any object which
reasonably could be involved in an unlawful drug-related activity;
      (8)   Such person possesses any instrument, article or thing whose
customary or primary purpose is for the sale, administration or use of
controlled substances such as, but not limited to, crack pipes, push wires,
chore boys, hand scales, hypodermic needles, razor blades or other cutting
tools;
      (9)   The area involved is by public repute known to be an area of
unlawful drug use and trafficking;
      (10)   The premises involved are known to the defendant to have been
reported to law enforcement as a place of drug activity pursuant to 410 ILCS
615/1 et seq.; and/or
      (11)   Any vehicle involved is registered to a known unlawful drug user,
possessor or seller, or a person for whom there is an outstanding warrant for a
crime involving drug-related activity.
   (C)   No person shall occupy, loiter or remain in any building, apartment,
store, automobile, boat, boat-house, airplane or other place of any description
whatsoever where controlled substance, hypodermic syringes, needles or other
instruments or implements are sold, dispensed, furnished, given away, stored or
kept illegally, with the intent to unlawfully use or possess such substance,
implements or instruments.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-39) (Ord. 5452, passed 8-25-1995; Ord. 5948, passed 1-19-
1999) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.14 GRAFFITI.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      GRAFFITI. Any unauthorized inscription, word, figure or design or
collection thereof, which is marked, etched, scratched, painted, drawn or
printed on any structural component of any building, structure or other
facility, regardless of the nature of the material of that structural
component.
   (B)   Declaration of nuisance. The existence of graffiti on buildings, or on
structures, including, but not limited to, fences or walls, located upon any
property in the city is declared a nuisance.
   (C)   Notice to abate. Any inspector of the city, upon observing any
nuisance under this section, shall issue a notice directed to the owner of
record of the property on which the nuisance occurs. The notice shall describe
the nuisance and shall establish a reasonable time limit for the abatement
thereof by such owner, which time shall be not less than five days, nor more
than 14 days, after service of such notice. The notice shall also specify
clearly that graffiti established on a painted surface shall be painted over
with a color consistent with the predominant tone of the building or structure,
and that graffiti established on any unpainted masonry or wood surface shall be
removed by cleaning so that such unpainted surface is returned.
   (D)   Complaints by citizens, inspection, issuance of notice. Any citizen of
the city who observes a nuisance under this section may file a complaint with
the city. Such complaints shall be investigated and, if a nuisance exists,
notice as provided in this section shall be issued.
   (E)   Service, return of notice, certified mail. The inspector issuing the
notice to abate a nuisance under this section or his or her designee shall, by
personal service or certified mail, serve the notice upon the owner of the
property where such nuisance exists, and shall make his or her return upon a
copy of such notice showing the date of service and the person upon whom it was
served.
   (F)   Investigation to determine compliance with notice. Immediately upon
the termination of the time allowed in any notice of the abatement of the
nuisance under this section, the inspector shall investigate to determine
whether or not the nuisance has been abated.
   (G)   Failure to comply with notice. In the event the owner of the property
where such nuisance exists has failed within the prescribed time to abate such
nuisance, then the Director of the Division of Inspection and Permits shall
have the authority to make arrangements for the removal of the graffiti through
any available public agency or by contract with any applicable private entity.
The cost of such removal shall be billed to the city and shall be a lien upon
the affected property if not paid within 60 days after billing thereof.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-40) (Ord. 5590, passed 6-17-1996) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.15 LOCAL STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CURFEW. A prohibition against any person walking, running, loitering,
standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public property or vacant
premises within the corporate limits of the city except officials of any
governmental unit and persons officially designated to duty with reference to
said civil emergency.
      EMERGENCY.
         (a)   A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual
force or violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power
to execute by three or more persons acting together without authority of law;
or
         (b)   Any natural disaster, epidemic, or manmade calamity, including
outbreak of disease, flood, conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or
explosion, or eminent threat of any of those events within the corporate limits
of the city, resulting in or threatening the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   Declaration. Whenever an emergency, as defined in division (A) of this
section exists, the Mayor is authorized to declare the existence of a local
state of emergency by means of a written declaration of the Mayor, under oath,
setting forth the facts which constitute the emergency, describing the nature
of the emergency and declaring that a local state of emergency exists in
accordance with the definitions set forth in this section. This declaration
must be filed with the municipal clerk as soon as practicable after issuance.
   (C)   Curfew authorized. After proclamation of a local state of emergency by
the Mayor, he or she may order a general curfew applicable to such geographical
areas of the city or to the city as a whole, as he or she deems reasonable and
advisable, and applicable during such hours of the day or night as he or she
deems necessary in the interest of the public safety and welfare.
   (D)   Orders authorized. After the proclamation of a local state of
emergency, the Mayor may also, in the interest of public safety and welfare,
and to address this issues caused threatened by the emergency, make take any or
all of the following actions by executive order during the state of emergency:
      (1)   All actions reasonably necessary to respond to the emergency;
      (2)   Approve previously appropriated expenditures of the city for the
purpose of continuing the operations of the municipality;
      (3)   In the event the local state of emergency extends beyond the
current fiscal year and a new budget has not been approved, the Mayor shall be
authorized to approve new spending by the city during the existence of the
local state of emergency;
      (4)   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores, including taverns
and private clubs or portions thereof wherein the consumption of intoxicating
liquor and beer is permitted;
      (5)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer;
      (6)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle; and/or
      (7)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or
giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever.
   (E)   Duration. The declaration herein authorized shall be effective for a
period of up to 30 days or until the adjournment of the next regular or special
meeting of the City Council, whichever comes first, unless sooner terminated by
a proclamation of the Mayor, or, his or her interim emergency successor,
indicating that the civil emergency no longer exists. The Mayor or his or her
interim emergency successor, shall have the power to re-proclaim the existence
of an emergency at the end of each 30-day period during the time said emergency
exists.
   (F)   Notice. Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the municipal
clerk shall notify the news media situated within the city, and shall cause at
least four copies of the proclamation declaring the existence of the emergency
and any curfew to be posted at the following places within the city: the City
Hall, the Police Station, the Post Office, and in the area of any curfew.
   (G)   Violations. Any person violating the provisions of this section or
executive orders issued pursuant hereto shall be guilty of an offense against
the city and shall be punished as provided by §§
10.99 and
130.99(A) of this code.
   (H)   Effect on other ordinances. Nothing contained in this section shall be
construed to impair the powers contained in this code, giving powers to the
Police and Fire Departments, but shall be construed together with existing
ordinances now in effect for the safety and welfare of the citizens of the
city.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-42) (Ord. 2861, passed - -; Ord. 8436-2020, passed 3-26-
2020) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.16 BILLPOSTING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited places. No person shall post or paint any handbill, sign,
poster, advertisement or notice, except legal publications and notices, or
cause the same to be done upon any curb, sidewalk, street, tree, lamppost,
utility pole, hydrant or bridge within the city or upon any private wall,
window, door, fence, gate, advertising board or other private structure or
building, unless he or she is the owner thereof.
   (B)   Littering. No person owning, leasing or operating any billboard shall
tear or remove from the same, or permit to be torn or removed from the same,
any advertising sheets, or other papers, without immediately removing the same
from the sidewalks and streets, or permit the same to be torn or taken
therefrom and thrown, blown or dropped upon any sidewalk or street. No person
shall post advertising sheets or other papers in such a manner as to be
insecure or probable that the same will be torn, washed or blown from the
billboard.
   (C)   Obscene advertising. No person owning, leasing or operating any
billboard shall post or cause to be posted, so that the same can be seen from
any public place in the city, any pictures or illustrations of nude or semi-
nude figures, or any material of an obscene or immoral character.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-43) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17 TRUANCY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CHRONIC OR HABITUAL TRUANT. A child subject to compulsory school
attendance and who is absent without valid cause from such attendance for 5% or
more of the previous 180 regular attendance days.
      DROPOUT. Any child enrolled in grades 1 through 12 whose name has been
removed from the district enrollment roster for any reason other than his or
her death, extended illness, graduation or completion of a program of studies
and who has not transferred to another public or private school.
      RELIGION. Includes all aspects of religious observance and practice, as
well as belief.
      TRUANT. A child subject to compulsory school attendance and who is absent
without valid cause from such attendance for a school day or portion thereof.
      TRUANT MINOR. A chronic truant to whom supportive services, including
prevention, diagnostic intervention and remedial services, alternative programs
and other school and community resources have been provided and have failed to
result in the cessation of chronic truancy, or have been offered and refused.
      VALID CAUSE FOR ABSENCE. Illness, observance of a religious holiday,
death in the immediate family, family emergency, and shall include such other
situations beyond the control of the student as determined by the board of
education in each district, or such other circumstances which cause reasonable
concern to the parent for the safety or health of the student.
   (B)   Truancy prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person under the age
of 18 enrolled in a public, private or parochial school, to absent himself or
herself from attendance at school without parental permission.
   (C)   False excuse prohibited. It shall be an offense under this section for
a parent or person in loco parentis to knowingly submit to the proper school
authorities a written excuse under division (B) above that contains false
information.
   (D)   Permission parameters. Parental permission shall include permission
from a person in loco parentis, and shall be given for reasons only of personal
illness, serious family illness, death in the family, serious home emergencies,
necessary and lawful family support employment, religious convocation classes,
principal’s permission and compelling family reasons.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-44) (Ord. 5427, passed 5-15-1995; Ord. 7504, passed 7-5-
2011; Ord. 7966-2016, passed 7-5-2016) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.18 TRESPASSING; SCHOOL TRESPASSING.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
commit a trespass within the city upon either public or private property.
      (2)   Without constituting any limitation upon the provisions of division
(A)(1) above, any of the following acts by any person, firm or corporation
shall be deemed included among those that constitute trespasses in violation of
the provisions of said division (A)(1) above and appropriate action may be
taken hereunder at any time or from time to time to prevent or punish any
violation or violations of this section. The aforesaid enumerated acts shall
include:
         (a)   An entry upon the premises or any part thereof of another,
including any public property, in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at
the main entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or entry or in
violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing by any
owner or occupant thereof;
         (b)   The pursuit of a course of conduct or action incidental to the
making of an entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or
entry or in violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in
writing by any owner or occupant thereof;
         (c)   A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in
case of being requested either orally or in writing by any owner or occupant
thereof; or
         (d)   An entry into or upon any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft made
without the consent of the person having the right to the possession or control
thereof or a failure or refusal to leave any such vehicle, aircraft or
watercraft after being requested to leave by the person having such right.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-45)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall willfully or maliciously make or assist in
making any noise, disturbance or other improper diversion by which the peace,
quietude or good order of any public, private or parochial school is disturbed.
      (2)   No person shall use profane, indecent or immoral language or
indulge in indecent or immoral conduct in any building or on any property
adjacent to any building in the city occupied as a public, private or parochial
school.
      (3)   Any person found to be creating a disturbance in any private,
public or parochial school, or on the surrounding school grounds or on the
fields or grounds lawfully used for school activities while such recreational
areas or other activities are in progress shall leave immediately when so
directed by the principal or by any other person designated by the principal.
      (4)   No person shall enter or remain in any public, private or parochial
school building or school grounds between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m.
on days such school is in session, who is not a regularly enrolled student,
teacher or other employee at such school, unless he or she shall have first and
immediately proceeded to the administrative offices and identified himself or
herself to the principal or the principal’s designee and received permission to
so enter or remain. It shall be unlawful for any person to enter or remain in
any public, private or parochial school or school grounds or on any public way
within 250 feet of such public, private or parochial school or school grounds
after being requested to leave by the principal or his or her designee.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for any person to borrow or attempt to borrow
any money or thing of value from any student in any public, private or
parochial school property in the city or during any time when such student is
going to or returning from any regularly scheduled session of any such school
without first obtaining the written approval of the principal of such school or
other person designated by the principal to issue such written approval.
      (6)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be on any school grounds
after official sunset unless he or she is actively engaged in school sponsored
functions, supervised recreational activities or is participating in an
athletic event or is a spectator at such event.
      (7)   No unauthorized person shall enter upon the premises of any
elementary, intermediate or secondary school.
      (8)   It should be unlawful to conduct any activity on public, private or
parochial school grounds if the school has posted signs prohibiting the
activity.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-46)
(Ord. 3333, passed 1-19-1976; Ord. 3380, passed 8-31-1976; Ord. 3803, passed 6-
29-1981; Ord. 6660, passed 7-6-2004) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.19 HALLOWEEN SOLICITATION.
   (A)   Definition. HALLOWEEN SOLICITATION shall mean seeking or obtaining
gifts, food, candy or contributions of money, as is customarily and commonly
known as “trick or treat”, in the celebration of Halloween day.
   (B)   Masks or disguises, trick or treat visitations and Halloween curfew.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person over 12 years of age to appear
in or upon any of the streets, highways, alleys, public parks or other places
of the city in any mask or disguise whereby the identity of such person is
concealed, without permission of the Mayor or Chief of Police on days other
than Halloween.
      (2)   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to appear on the streets,
highways, public homes, private homes or public places in the city to make
trick or treat visitations; except that, this section shall not apply to
children who attend any public, private, parochial school or equivalent to
include home schooled student(s) in the eighth grade and under on Halloween
night.
         (b)   Special needs students are exempted from the restrictions of
this provision when accompanied by a parent, guardian or other responsible
person.
      (3)   A special time limit “curfew” for all Halloween solicitation “trick
or treat” activities is hereby established to limit such solicitations between
5:00 p.m. and 8:30 p.m.
      (4)   Nothing herein shall be construed as prohibiting any parent,
guardian or other responsible person, having lawfully in his or her custody a
child who attends any public, private, parochial school or equivalent to
include home schooled student(s) in the eighth grade and under from
accompanying such child who is participating in Halloween solicitation “trick
or treat” for the purpose of caring for, looking after or protecting such
child.
      (5)   Nothing herein shall be deemed to prohibit the gathering and
participation of children in a Halloween parade or costume contest, or other
Halloween celebrations or activities sponsored by the city, schools or other
civic, social, religious or service clubs.
   (C)   Sex offender prohibition.
      (1)   (a)   An individual who has been convicted of or placed on deferred
adjudication for a sexual offense involving a person under 17 years of age for
which the individual is required to register as a sex offender under the
state’s Sex Offender Registered Act, as amended (730 ILCS 150/1 et seq.).
         (b)   It shall be unlawful for any designated sex offender, under the
state’s Sex Offender Registered Act, as amended (730 ILCS 150/1 et seq.), to
participate in any Halloween events involving a person under 17 years of age,
such as distributing candy or other items to children on Halloween. No candy or
treats shall be distributed at the sex offender’s place of residence and all
outside residential lighting shall be turned off between 4:00 p.m. and 11:00
p.m.
      (2)   Halloween events in which the designated sex offender is the parent
or guardian of the children involved, and no non-familiar children are present,
are exempt from this prohibition.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-47) (Ord. 7199, passed 10-20-2008) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.20 REGISTERED SEX OFFENDERS; RESIDENCE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CHILD SEX OFFENDER. Includes any person required to register his or her
residence address with any state, or with the federal government, as a result
of his or her conviction as a sex offender, where the victim of that sex
offense was under the age of 18 years at the time of the offense. A CHILD SEX
OFFENDER includes, but is not limited to, any person required to register under
the state’s Sex Offender Registration Act, 730 ILCS 150/1 et seq., as now or as
hereafter amended, where the victim was under the age of 18 years at the time
of the offense. A CHILD SEX OFFENDER further includes, but is not limited to,
any person who has been convicted of any of the following statutory offenses,
or convicted of attempting to commit any of the following statutory offenses,
as now or hereafter amended, involving a victim under the age of 18 years:
         (a)   Sexual exploitation of a child (720 ILCS 5/11-9.1);
         (b)   Predatory criminal sexual assault of a child (720 ILCS 5/11-
1.40);
         (c)   Indecent solicitation of a child (720 ILCS 5/11-6);
         (d)   Public indecency committed on school property (720 ILCS 5/11-
30);
         (e)   Child luring (720 ILCS 5/10-5(b)(10));
         (f)   Aiding and abetting child abduction (720 ILCS 5/10-7 or 720 ILCS
5/10-(b)(10));
         (g)   Soliciting for a juvenile prostitute;
         (h)   Patronizing a juvenile prostitute (720 ILCS 5/11-18.1);
         (i)   Exploitation of a child;
         (j)   Child pornography (720 ILCS 5/11-20.1);
         (k)   Criminal sexual assault (720 ILCS 5/11-1.20);
         (l)   Aggravated criminal sexual assault (720 ILCS 5/11-1.30);
         (m)   Aggravated criminal sexual abuse (720 ILCS 5/11-1.60);
         (n)   Kidnaping or aggravated kidnaping (720 ILCS 5/10-1 or 5/10-2);
and
         (o)   Unlawful restraint or aggravated unlawful restraint (720 ILCS 5/
10-3 or 5/10-3.1).
      LOITER. Standing or sitting idly, whether or not the person is in a
vehicle or remaining in or around property that is from time to time frequented
by persons under the age of 18 years.
      PARK. Includes any playground, walking track, athletic field, gymnasium,
basketball court, baseball diamond or other real estate owned or controlled by
a school or unit of a local government, that is designated primarily for
recreation. The term PARK includes ancillary restrooms and vehicle parking lots
designated for use primarily by park patrons or school students and their
families.
      PUBLIC POOL. Includes any parcel of real estate containing any natatorium
or other improved real estate, designated or intended for swimming, water
recreation or water sports, whether operated or owned by a public entity, or to
which memberships are sold to the public.
      SCHOOL. Any real property used primarily for educational or child care
purposes, including, but not limited to, elementary schools, middle schools,
high schools, dance studios, licensed child day care facilities and pre-
schools.
   (B)   It is unlawful for a child sex offender to reside within 1,500 feet of
any of the following:
      (1)   The real property comprising any school attended by persons under
the age of 18 years;
      (2)   The real property comprising any park; or
      (3)   Any public pool.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any child sex offender to loiter on any public
property, public right-of-way, or area designated for parking of motor
vehicles, within 1,500 feet of any of the following, unless the person
loitering is with a child under the age of 18 years and the person loitering is
a parent, step-parent, aunt, uncle, cousin, sibling or step-sibling of that
child under the age of 18 years:
      (1)   The real property comprising any school attended by persons under
the age of 18 years;
      (2)   The real property comprising any park; or
      (3)   Any public pool.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person, corporation, business, partnership,
trust, manager or other entity, to enter into a lease agreement, or to renew
any lease agreement, letting residential real estate to a child sex offender,
where the lot line of the residential property is within 1,500 feet of any of
the following:
      (1)   The real property comprising any school attended by persons under
the age of 18 years;
      (2)   The real property comprising any park; or
      (3)   Any public pool.
   (E)   All distances designated in this section shall be measured from the
lot line of the park property, public pool property or school property, and
from the lot line of the subject residence.
   (F)   Nothing in this section prohibits a child sex offender from residing
within 1,500 feet of any property, if that residence is owned or leased by the
child sex offender before the effective date of this section. This section is
intended to apply to and prevent such new residential lease agreements, and
renewals of expired residential leases, entered into after the effective date
of this section.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-49) (Ord. 7211, passed 12-15-2008) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.21 PUBLIC CAMPING.
   (A)   Public camping as a nuisance. Public camping, as the term is defined
herein, is hereby declared to be a nuisance within the city.
   (B)   Regulation of public camping necessary to promote public health. In an
effort to address the public health concerns identified above, the city hereby
declares it necessary or expedient for the promotion of health or the
suppression of diseases to regulate public camping, as that term is defined
herein, within the city's corporate limits.
   (C)   Public camping not intended use of public property. Except for those
parcels of property specifically designated by the city in any subsequent
ordinance, the city hereby declares that none of its property is permitted nor
intended to be used for public camping, as the term is defined herein.
   (D)   Definitions. The following definitions apply to this section:
      BEDDING. A sleeping bag, or any other material, used for bedding
purposes.
      CAMPSITE. Any physical space that is not within an established structure,
where bedding or any stove or fire is placed, established or maintained for the
purpose of maintaining a temporary place to live, whether or not such place
incorporates the use of any tent, lean-to, shack or any other structure, or any
vehicle or part thereof.
      EXEMPT PERSONAL PROPERTY. Items which would otherwise constitute personal
property under the terms of this section, but which (i) has no apparent utility
or monetary value; (ii) personal property which is unsanitary to store or
otherwise maintain; (iii) any weapon possessed illegally; (iv) drug
paraphernalia; (v) items appearing to be stolen or otherwise appearing to be
evidence of a crime; (vi) items which the person cannot demonstrate the
requisite lawful authority to possess; and (vii) any items of food which can
reasonably be expected to spoil or otherwise perish within the next 30 days.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Any item reasonably recognizable as belonging to a
person and having apparent utility or monetary value, except for exempt
personal property.
      PUBLIC CAMPING. To cause or participate in the establishment of, or the
act of remaining in or at, a campsite.
   (E)   Public camping prohibited.
      (1)   No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in public camping, on a
public sidewalk, street, alley, lane, other public right-of-way, park, bench,
or any other publicly-owned property, nor on or under any bridge or viaduct, at
any time.
      (2)   No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in public camping, in any
pedestrian or vehicular entrance to public or private property abutting a
public right-of-way.
      (3)   No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in public camping, on any
real property owned or otherwise maintained by the city.
      (4)   No person may park a vehicle overnight within the city for the
purpose of sleeping or otherwise engaging in public camping in said vehicle.
      (5)   For the purposes of this section, the act of parking or leaving a
vehicle parked for two consecutive hours, and/or remaining within a public
vehicle on any property under the jurisdiction of the city for the purpose of
public camping, for two consecutive hours without permission from the City
Council, between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., shall be considered a
violation of this section.
   (F)   Exceptions to prohibition. Notwithstanding the foregoing, it shall not
be a violation to engage in public camping when done (i) in a manner
specifically authorized by this code; (ii) after a formal declaration of the
city in emergency circumstances; or, (iii) upon resolution of the City Council,
the same may exempt a special event from the prohibitions of this section, if
the City Council finds such exemption to be in the public interest and
consistent with the goals and objectives of the City Council, and with such
conditions imposed as the City Council deems necessary. Any conditions imposed
will include a condition requiring that the applicant provide evidence of
adequate insurance coverage and agree to indemnify the city for any liability,
damage or expense incurred by the city as a result of the activities of the
applicant. Any findings by the City Council shall specify the exact dates and
location covered by the exemption.
   (G)   Removal of campsite. Removal of a campsite in violation of this
section may occur under the following circumstances:
      (1)   Prior to removing a campsite, the city shall post a notice, 24-
hours in advance of the removal, unless immediate removal of the campsite is
deemed to be necessary for one of the reasons in divisions (1)(a)-(d), below.
If such immediate removal is undertaken, the basis for causing the immediate
removal of such campsite should be adequately documented by the appropriate
person(s).
         (a)   Immediate removal of the campsite is necessary to maintain
access to a property;
         (b)   Immediate removal of the campsite is necessary to maintain the
sanitary condition of a property;
         (c)   Immediate removal of the campsite is necessary because the
campsite is an obstruction to any public right-of-way; or
         (d)   Immediate removal of the campsite is necessary because the
campsite poses a risk to the health and safety of the city and its residents.
      (2)   Upon any action pursuant to division (G)(l) above, the person
causing such action to be taken shall inform an appropriate agency delivering
social services to homeless individuals in the city, of the location of the
campsite and the persons found to be in violation of this section, so said
agency may determine whether or not it would be appropriate to offer its
services to those persons.
      (3)   If a 24-hour notice has been posted, and the 24-hour notice period
has passed, then the campsite, as well as all personal property thereon, shall
be removed by the appropriate person(s) acting on behalf of the city.
      (4)   No portion of this section shall be construed to prohibit any
person found to be engaging in public camping from removing their personal
property from the campsite; however, such personal property that constitutes
exempt personal property and which a reasonably prudent law enforcement
officer, exercising the applicable constitutional standard, would conclude that
said exempt personal property constitutes items appearing to be stolen or
otherwise appearing to be evidence of a crime, and/or items which the person
cannot demonstrate the requisite lawful authority to possess, may be retained
and stored as evidence.
   (H)   Disposition and release of personal property.
      (1)   All personal property removed from any campsite which is not exempt
personal property shall be stored by the appropriate law enforcement agency of
the city, for a minimum of 30 days, during which time it shall be reasonably
available for and released to an individual confirming ownership.
      (2)   All exempt personal property may be disposed of or retained as
evidence by the appropriate law enforcement agency of the city.
(Ord. 9339-2024, passed 11-4-2024) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violations of §
130.03 of this chapter shall be punishable be a fine of not less than $75 and
not more than $250 for each violation.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-8)
   (C)   Any person, firm, co-partnership, or corporation violating any
provision of §
130.11 shall be fined a minimum of $500 and/or prosecution pursuant to § 5 of
the Pyrotechnic Use Act (425 ILCS 35/5).
   (D)   Anyone found in violation of §
130.07(A) of this chapter will be fined a minimum of $250 up to $500 per
occurrence.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-16)
   (E)   The penalty for a violation of §
130.09(B) of this chapter is $250. The penalty for any subsequent violation of
§
130.09(B) of this chapter is $500.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-33)
   (F)   Any person in violation of §
130.10 of this chapter shall be fined a minimum of $250 and a maximum fine not
to exceed $500.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-34)
   (G)   Any person violating the provisions of §
130.11 of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine as
set out in 720 ILCS 5/16-1.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-35)
   (H)   (1)   Possession of drug paraphernalia. It is unlawful for any person
to use, or to possess, with intent to use, drug paraphernalia to plant,
propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, product,
process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject,
ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled
substance in violation of this division (H)(1). Any person who violates §
130.12 of this chapter is guilty of a crime and, upon conviction, may be fined
not less than $100, nor more than $500.
      (2)   Manufacture or delivery of drug paraphernalia. It is unlawful for
any person to deliver, possess with intent to deliver, or manufacture with
intent to deliver, drug paraphernalia, knowing or under circumstances where on
reasonably should know, that it will be used to plant, propagate, cultivate,
grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test,
analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or
otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled substance in violation of
§
130.12 of this chapter. Any person who violates this division (H)(2) is guilty
of a crime and, upon conviction, may be fined not less than $100, nor more than
$500.
      (3)   Delivery of drug paraphernalia to a minor. Any person 18 years of
age or over who violates §
130.12(A) of this chapter by delivering drug paraphernalia to a person under 18
years of age who is at least three years his or her junior is guilty of a
special offense and, upon conviction, may be fined not less than $100, nor more
than $500.
      (4)   Advertisement of drug paraphernalia. It is unlawful for any person
to place in any newspaper, magazine, handbill or other publication any
advertisement, knowing or under circumstances where one reasonably should know
that the purpose of the advertisement, in whole or in part, is to promote the
sale of objects designed or intended for use as drug paraphernalia. Any person
who violates this division (H)(4) is guilty of a crime and, upon conviction,
may be fined not less than $100, nor more than $500.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-38)
   (I)   Any person violating the provision of §
130.15 of this chapter or executive order issued pursuant thereto shall be
guilty of an offense against the city and shall be punishable by a fine of not
to exceed $500.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-42)
   (J)   (1)   Any person who shall so absent himself or herself shall be
guilty of the offense of truancy, per §
130.17 of this chapter, and be subject to a fine not to exceed $100 for each
offense. Emergency or unforeseen absences due to illness or other causes beyond
the control of the person so absenting himself or herself from school without
parental permission shall not constitute truancy if permission is submitted in
writing to the proper school authorities within 24 hours after such absence.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any parent, custodian or guardian of a minor to
knowingly permit, by insufficient control, to allow the minor to be present in
any public places or on the premises of any establishment within the city
during which the minor is absent himself or herself from attendance of school
without parental permission and shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $100
for each offense.
      (3)   A person convicted of an offense under §
130.17(C) shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500 for each offense.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-44)
   (K)   Any person found guilty of violating §
130.20(B), (C) or (D) of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of between
$100 and $1,000, with each day a violation continues constituting a separate
offense. Any person, corporation, business, partnership, trust, manager or
other entity guilty of violating §
130.20(D) of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of between $100 and
$1,000, revocation of business license, or both. Each day a violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense. Any person, corporation, business,
partnership, trust, manager or other entity violating §
130.20(D) of this chapter shall be presumed to have had knowledge of the
tenant’s status as a child sex offender, where that tenant’s name, photo or
other identifying information appears on the State Police statewide sex
offender database, as published on the internet on the State Police World Wide
Web home page, per the Sex Offender and Child Murderer Community Notification
Law, 730 ILCS 152/101 et seq., as now or hereafter amended.
   (K)   Any person found guilty of violating §
130.20(B), (C) or (D) of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of between
$100 and $1,000, with each day a violation continues constituting a separate
offense. Any person, corporation, business, partnership, trust, manager or
other entity guilty of violating §
130.20(D) of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of between $100 and
$1,000, revocation of business license, or both. Each day a violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense. Any person, corporation, business,
partnership, trust, manager or other entity violating §
130.20(D) of this chapter shall be presumed to have had knowledge of the
tenant’s status as a child sex offender, where that tenant’s name, photo or
other identifying information appears on the State Police statewide sex
offender database, as published on the internet on the State Police World Wide
Web home page, per the Sex Offender and Child Murderer Community Notification
Law, 730 ILCS 152/101 et seq., as now or hereafter amended.
   (L)   Penalty for public camping.
      (1)   The penalty for any person's first violation of §
130.21 within a rolling 24 month period shall be $75.
      (2)   The penalty for any person's second violation of §
130.21 within a rolling 24 month period shall be $150.
      (3)   The penalty for any person's third violation of §
130.21 within a rolling 24 month period shall be $350.
      (4)   The penalty for any person's fourth violation of §
130.21 within a rolling 24 month period shall be $500.
      (5)   The penalty for any person's fifth violation of §
130.21 within a rolling 24 month period shall be $750.
      (6)   The penalty for any person's sixth or subsequent violation of §
130.21 within a rolling 24 month period may be a monetary penalty of $750 or
incarceration for a period not exceeding the maximum time allowed pursuant to
65 ILCS 5/1-2-9.
      (7)   As a substitute for any monetary penalty assessed pursuant to
division (1) through (6) above, and if consented to by the city, the penalty
assessed to any person found in violation of this section may be that said
person must engage in public service by cleaning the rights-of-way and other
public facilities of the city for an amount of time that, if the person found
to have violated §
130.21 was being paid the minimum wage under Illinois law, the amount paid for
that person's labors would have been equal to the monetary penalty assessed
under this section.
      (8)   The city is hereby empowered to exercise all powers afforded to it,
at law or in equity, to collect any fines assessed against a person pursuant to
this section, including but not limited to seeking incarceration of said person
for a period of time that conforms with 65 ILCS 5/1-2-9.
      (9)   In the imposition of any penalty pursuant to this section, the
penalty shall be mitigated by whether or not the person immediately removed all
personal property and litter, including but not limited to bottles, cans, and
garbage, from the campsite after the person was informed that the person was in
violation of this section.
      (10)   A separate offense of §
130.21 shall be deemed committed on each day on which a violation occurs or
continues.
      (11)   In addition to any other remedy provided by law or this section,
any person found in violation of §
130.21 may be immediately removed from the premises where the campsite is
located.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-49)
(Ord. 2846, passed - -; Ord. 2861, passed - -; Ord. 3759, passed 12-29-1982;
Ord. 5427, passed 5-15-1995; Ord. 7505, passed 7-5-2011; Ord. 7100, passed 4-8-
2008; Ord. 7211, passed 12-15-2008; Ord. 7302, passed 8-17-2009; Ord. 7417,
passed 7-19-2010; Ord. 7504, passed 7-5-2011; Ord. 7913, passed 11-16-2015;
Ord. 7966-2016, passed 7-5-2016; Ord. 9339-2024, passed 11-4-2024)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
131.01   Indecent exposure of person
   
131.02   Obscene literature
   
131.03   Gambling prohibited
§ 131.01 INDECENT EXPOSURE OF PERSON.
   No person shall, in the city, appear in any public place in a state of
nudity, or in an indecent or lewd dress, or shall make any indecent exposure of
his or her person, or be guilty of any indecent or lewd act or behavior, or
urinate or defecate in public other than while using a proper restroom.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-29) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02 OBSCENE LITERATURE.
   (A)   No person shall exhibit, sell or offer to sell, any indecent or lewd
book, print, picture or other thing, or shall exhibit or perform any indecent,
immoral or lewd play, or other representation.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-30)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, deliver, offer for
sale, distribute, publish, print, exhibit or possess with intent to distribute,
publish, print, exhibit or possess with intent to distribute, with knowledge of
the nature or content thereof, or recklessly failing to exercise reasonable
inspection which would have disclosed the nature or content thereof, any
obscene writing, picture, moving picture, record or other representation or
embodiment of the obscene, or to present or to direct an obscene play or other
performance or to perform an obscene act or otherwise present an obscene
exhibition or to advertise or otherwise promote obscene material.
      (2)   An thing shall be deemed to be OBSCENE if the average person would
find that the work taken as a whole appeals to a prurient interest, and the
work depicts or describes patently offensive representations or descriptions of
nude persons, ultimate sexual acts, normal or perverted sexual conduct, whether
actual or simulated, or patently offensive representations or descriptions of
masturbation, excretory functions and lewd exhibition of the human genitals.
The work, taken as a whole, must lack serious literary, artistic, political or
scientific value.
      (3)   It shall be an affirmative defense to obscenity that the
dissemination:
         (a)   Was not for gain, and was made to personal associates other than
children under 18 years of age; or
         (b)   Was to institutions or individuals having scientific or other
special justification for possession of such material.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-36)
(Ord. 3209, passed 3-18-1974) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03 GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall, in the city, set up any gaming table or gambling device, at
which any game of chance shall be played for money, or property, or anything of
value, or anything representing money or property, or anything of value; or at
any such table or device, or at any game of chance, bet, win or lose any money,
or property, or anything of value, either in specie, or in anything
representing the same; or suffer any such table or device, at which any game of
chance is played, to be set up or used in any tenement, or on any premises in
his or her possession or under his or her control; or let any tenement or
premises owned by him or her or under his or her control to any person to be
used for any purpose of gaming or gambling therein or thereon; or being a
landlord permit any tenant to employee, or use any premises or tenement leased
by such landlord to such tenant, for any purpose of gaming or gambling. This
shall not apply to charitable games licensed under 230 ILCS 30/1 et seq. or to
video gaming terminal games at a licensed establishment, licensed truck stop
establishment, licensed fraternal establishment or licensed veterans
establishment when conducted in accordance with the Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS
40/1 et seq.
(1960 Code, § 30-1-32) (Ord. 7649, passed 11-19-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODE; BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   ELECTRICAL CODE
      
152.   PLUMBING CODE
      
153.   GAS, OIL AND SOLID FUEL BURNER CODE
      
154.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
      
155.   SIGN CODE
      
156.   MOBILE HOME PARKS
      
157.   FLOODPLAINS
      
158.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS; TREES
      
159.   ENTERPRISE ZONES
      
160.   SPECIAL BUSINESS DISTRICTS
      
161.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
162.   ZONING
      
163.   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
      
164.   INFILL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODE; BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Code
   
150.01   Adoption of Building Code
   
150.02   Definitions in Building Code
   
150.03   Amendments to Building Code
Building Official and Other Officials
   
150.15   Establishment of Office of Building Official
   
150.16   Qualifications of Building Official
   
150.17   Duties of Building Official
   
150.18   Bond of the Building Official
   
150.19   Cooperation of other officials
Conditions, Permits and Fees
   
150.30   Right of entry
   
150.31   Fire limits
   
150.32   Building permit fees
   
150.33   Building permits and subdivisions
   
150.34   Demolition of buildings
   
150.35   Definition; building contractor
   
150.36   Registration
   
150.37   Dumpster permit
   
150.38   Permit tables
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Dangerous Buildings, see §§
93.040 through
93.043
   Property Maintenance Code, see
Ch. 154
   Streets and Sidewalks, see
Ch. 158
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE.
   There is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of establishing rules
and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition,
equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and
structures, including permits and penalties, that certain building code known
as the 2006 International Building Code and 2006 International Residential Code
for One- and Two-Family Dwellings and International Energy Conservation Code,
recommended by the Building Officials Conference of America, Inc., being
particularly the current edition thereof, and the whole thereof, save and
except such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended, of which
not less than three copies have been and are now filed in the office of the
City Clerk and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set
out at length herein, and from the date on which this Code shall take effect,
the provisions thereof shall be controlling in the construction of all
buildings and structures therein contained within the corporate limits of the
city; provided, however, that, notwithstanding the foregoing, this
Chapter 150, as well as
Chapter 151 (Electrical Code) and
Chapter 152 (Plumbing Code), shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   Buildings owned and operated by the St. Clair County Public Building
Commission pursuant to the Illinois Public Building Commission Act, which shall
comply with Chapter 7 (Building Code) of the St. Clair County Code of
Ordinances; and
   (B)   Buildings owned and operated by public school districts organized
under the Illinois School Code, which shall comply with the Health/Life Safety
Code (23 Ill. Adm. Code pt. 180) administered by the Illinois State Board of
Education.
(1960 Code, § 23-1-1) (Ord. 7510, passed 7-5-2011; Ord. 8924-2021, passed 3-15-
2021)
§ 150.02 DEFINITIONS IN BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Wherever the word “municipality” is used in the Building Code, it
shall be held to mean the “City of Belleville, Illinois”.
   (B)   Wherever the term “corporation counsel” is used in the Building Code,
it shall be held to mean the “Attorney for the City of Belleville”.
(1960 Code, § 23-1-2) (Ord. 2641, passed - -)
§ 150.03 AMENDMENTS TO BUILDING CODE.
   The Building Code herein adopted is amended and changed in the following
respects.
   (A)   Article 27, (Electric Wiring, Equipment and Systems) is hereby deleted
from this Code.
   (B)   Article 28, (Plumbing System) is hereby deleted from this Code.
   (C)   Article 29, (Signs) is hereby deleted from this Code.
   (D)   Section 112.5 (Approved Plans) is hereby amended by changing the
section to read as follows instead of the language as it now appears therein:
      Approved Plans: The Building Official shall stamp or endorse in writing
three (3) sets of corrected plans Approved and two (2) sets of such approved
plans shall be retained by the Building Official and the other set shall be
kept at the building site, open to inspection of the Building Official or an
unauthorized representative at all reasonable times. One (1) set of the
approved plans of every building or structure other than temporary structures
shall be kept in file in the office of the Building Official until such time as
final inspection is made and work certified by the Building Official as
complete at which time such plans may be returned to the owner.
   (E)   Section 3.295 is hereby amended by adding subsections (F) and (G)
thereto as follows:
      (F)   Residency of the Building Official shall be governed by §
150.16 of the Code.
      (G)   Residency of the Electrical Inspector shall be governed by §
150.03(D) of the Code.
(1960 Code, § 23-1-3) (Ord. 3843, passed 12-7-1981; Ord. 4710, passed 3-5-1990;
Ord. 7821, passed 11-17-2014)
BUILDING OFFICIAL AND OTHER OFFICIALS
§ 150.15 ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE OF BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The Office of Building Official is hereby created and the executive
official in charge shall be known as the Building Official.
   (B)   The Building Official shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
approval of the City Council. His or her appointment shall continue during good
behavior and satisfactory service. He or she shall not be removed from office,
except for cause after full opportunity has been given him or her to be heard
on specific charges.
   (C)   During the temporary absence or disability of the Building Official,
the City Consulting Engineer shall be empowered to exercise the duties of the
Building Official.
(1960 Code, § 23-1-4) (Ord. 2781, passed - -)
§ 150.16 QUALIFICATIONS OF BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   To be eligible to appointment, the candidate for the position of Building
Official shall have had experience as an architect or structural engineer or
building inspector or superintendent of building construction. He or she shall
be in good health, physically capable of making the necessary examinations and
inspections. He or she shall not have any interest whatever, directly or
indirectly, in the sale or manufacture of any material, process or device
entering into or used in or in connection with building construction,
alterations, removal and demolition. The Building Official shall reside in
Belleville or within ten miles of the city limits.
(1960 Code, § 23-1-5) (Ord. 2641, passed - -; Ord. 7821, passed 11-17-2014)
§ 150.17 DUTIES OF BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The Building Official shall devote full time to the duties of his or
her office. He or she shall receive applications required by this Code, issue
permits and furnish the prescribed certificates. He or she shall examine
premises for which permits have been issued and shall make necessary
inspections to see that the provisions of law are complied with and that
construction is prosecuted safely. He or she shall enforce all provisions of
the Building Code. He or she shall, when requested by proper authority, or when
the public interest so required, make investigations in connection with matters
referred to in the Building Code and render written reports on the same. To
enforce compliance with law, to remove illegal or unsafe conditions, to secure
the necessary safeguards during construction, or to require adequate exit
facilities in buildings and structures, he or she shall issue such notices or
orders as may be necessary.
   (B)   Inspections required under the provisions of the Building Code shall
be made by the Building Official or his or her duly-appointed assistant. The
Building Official may accept reports of inspectors or recognized inspection
service, after investigation of their qualifications and reliability. No
certificate called for by any provision of the Building Code shall be issued on
such reports unless the same are in writing and certified to by a responsible
officer of such service.
   (C)   The Building Official shall keep comprehensive records of
applications, of permits issued, of certificates issued, of inspections made,
of reports rendered and of notices or orders issued. He or she shall retain on
file copies of required plans and all documents relating to building work so
long as any part of the building or structure to which they relate may be in
existence.
   (D)   All such records shall be open to public inspection of or good and
sufficient reasons at the stated office hours, but shall not be removed from
the Office of the Building Official without his or her written consent.
   (E)   The Building Official shall make written reports to his or her
immediate superior once each month, or more often if requested, including
statements of permits and certificates issued, and orders promulgated.
   (F)   The Building Official shall also be responsible for the enforcement of
the zoning regulations of the city and take all actions necessary as prescribed
in this section as same would apply to enforcement of the zoning regulations.
(1960 Code, § 23-1-6) (Ord. 2641, passed - -; Ord. 2711, passed - -)
§ 150.18 BOND OF THE BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The Building Official shall post a penal bond in the amount of $2,000 which
is to be a commercial surety bond, premium therefor to be paid in compliance
with §
31.032 of this code of ordinances.
(1960 Code, § 23-1-7) (Ord. 2645, passed - -)
§ 150.19 COOPERATION OF OTHER OFFICIALS.
   The Building Official may request and shall receive so far as may be
necessary in the discharge of his or her duties, the assistance and cooperation
of other officials of the city.
(1960 Code, § 23-1-8) (Ord. 2641, passed - -)
CONDITIONS, PERMITS AND FEES
§ 150.30 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Building Official, in the discharge of his or her official duties and
upon proper identification, shall have authority to enter any structure or
premises at reasonable times to inspect, subject to constitutional restrictions
on unreasonable searches and seizures. If entry is refused or not obtained, the
Building Official is authorized to pursue recourse as provided by law.
(1960 Code, § 23-1-9) (Ord. 2641, passed - -; Ord. 8949-2021, passed 5-17-2021)
§ 150.31 FIRE LIMITS.
   The fire limits of the city are hereby established as follows: city limits
or any agreed to limits.
(1960 Code, § 23-1-10) (Ord. 2641, passed - -)
§ 150.32 BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Where building permits are required by the Building Code in effect,
for new construction, alterations, additions and modifications to existing
structures and buildings all fees as assessed shall be paid in full before a
building permit can be issued.
   (B)   Appropriate applications shall be completed and when required by state
requirements, construction plans and specifications as prepared by a state
licensed architect and/or structural engineer shall be submitted properly
signed and sealed for review and approval by the Building Official of the city.
   (C)   Building permit fees shall be computed based on the total gross floor
area (square footage) of each building, structure or other improvement
requiring a permit unless otherwise exempted.
   (D)   Building permit fees shall be based on the accompanying Tables No. 1
through 10 in §
150.38 of this chapter using the multiplier as determined for the type and
extent of improvement being considered. The Building Official shall determine
the total gross floor area of the improvements and determine the appropriate
classification of the building in computing the fee. If a combination permit
fee, as set forth on the accompanying tables, is paid by an applicant, no
separate electrical, plumbing or HVAC permit shall be required.
   (E)   If in calculating the permit fees to be charged from the accompanying
tables, the Building Official determines that the fee as calculated is less
than the minimum fee as stated for the type of work to be performed, the
minimum fee shall be charged.
   (F)   Separate fees shall be charged for all individual structures (i.e.,
four apartment buildings in a planned unit development would require four
separate permits with each charged a separate permit fee).
   (G)   If additional inspections are required to be performed by the Building
Official beyond the required inspections due to incomplete work or failure to
properly notify the Department in advance for a required inspection, the permit
holder will be subject to an additional inspection fee as stated in the permit
fee table. The Building Official will notify the permit holder of the reasons
in writing for the additional inspection fee.
   (H)   The fee for starting or completing work without first applying for and
receiving a permit or approval by the Building Official to proceed with
construction in which a building permit is required shall be double the amount
that would normally be charged for the project under this code.
   (I)   Permit fees shall be rounded off to the nearest dollar, in accordance
with the tables in §
150.38.
   (J)   The building permit fee for installation of a swimming pool shall be
$100.
   (K)   (1)   A home remodel permit shall be available to an owner remodeling
up to 200 square feet in a single-family residence.
      (2)   The home remodel permit fee shall be $45.
      (3)   If a home remodel permit fee is paid, no separate electrical,
plumbing or HVAC permit shall be required.
      (4)   The owner shall identify the contractor or contractors who will
perform the work.
   (L)   (1)   A residential addition permit shall be available to an owner
adding 400 square feet of living area or less to an existing single-family
residence.
      (2)   The residential addition permit fee shall be $75.
      (3)   If a residential addition permit fee is paid, no separate
electrical, plumbing or HVAC permit shall be required.
      (4)   The owner shall identify the contractor or contractors who will
perform the work.
   (M)   No building permit shall be required and no building permit fee
assessed for the following single-family residential projects:
      (1)   Any improvement, renovation, repair or new construction costing the
owner less than $600;
      (2)   Direct replacement of same size windows; and
      (3)   Replacement, renovation, repair or addition of any of the
following: siding, shingles, doors, cabinets, paneling, floor covering, wall
covering, painting, guttering and downspouts.
   (N)   Solar energy systems.
      (1)   A building permit and inspection(s) for a residential solar energy
system, the fee with a construction cost of $10,000 or less shall be a fee of
$200. Construction cost over $10,000 up to $50,000 the fee shall be $250 and
construction cost over $50,000 shall be a fee of $300.
      (2)   Commercial and industrial solar energy system fees refer to §
150.38(P) Commercial and Industrial Solar Energy Systems Permit Table.
      (3)   The standard permit fee, plan review fee, energy conservation plan
review and inspection fee are all included in the aforementioned fees. Fees for
any "additional inspection" required including inspections for compliance with
approved development or site plans or fees for any "additional inspection" that
may be required are not shown here and shall be added to the total payment fee
at the rate of $75 per inspection.
   (O)   In addition to the provisions herein set forth, all construction and
alterations of properties in a historic district shall require the submission
of a design review request to the Historic Preservation Commission and the
issuance of a certificate of appropriateness by the Historic Preservation
Commission.
(1960 Code, § 23-1-11) (Ord. 5922, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 8411-2020, passed 1-
21-2020; Ord. 9263-2024, passed 4-1-2024)
§ 150.33 BUILDING PERMITS AND SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No building permits shall be issued in a subdivision until the
streets have been accepted by the city.
      (2)   However, a building permit may be issued for a display home in a
subdivision before the streets are accepted if enough of the streets are
installed to provide access to the display home being built to the Fire
Department.
   (B)   (1)   No building permit shall be issued in a subdivision until the
fire hydrants for the subdivision are operational to the satisfaction of the
Fire Department.
      (2)   However, a building permit may be issued for a display home in a
subdivision before all of the fire hydrants are operational if the Fire
Department determines that there are enough fire hydrants operational to
protect display home being built.
(1960 Code, § 23-1-12) (Ord. 7076, passed 1-23-2008)
§ 150.34 DEMOLITION OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   A person obtaining a permit to demolish a building from the city is
hereinafter referred to as “permittee”.
   (B)   (1)   A permittee shall obtain a permit for demolition of a building
or structure from the Building Official of the city.
      (2)   The permit shall require such information as the Building Official
deems necessary.
      (3)   Before a permit shall be issued, the permittee shall submit proof
to the Building Official that all the utilities connected to this structure or
premises have been notified to the impending demolition.
   (C)   (1)   The permittee is responsible to first notify all utility
companies of the demolition prior to beginning the project.
      (2)   All rules and regulations of the utility companies along with the
city and the county code must be complied with before, during and after the
demolition project.
   (D)   (1)   The permittee shall fill only with masonry rubble, sand or clean
dirt up to the level grade of the existing surrounding area.
      (2)   The top layer of fill shall be a minimum of 12 inches soluble soil,
capable of encouraging vegetation.
   (E)   The permittee shall comply with all regulations of the state’s
Environmental Protection Agency of the United States Environmental Protection
Agency.
   (F)   Lumber, lathe or other organic materials will not be permitted in the
fill.
   (G)   Material which is not suitable for fill material shall not be used,
but shall be removed from the site of the work and disposed of at the
permittee’s expense.
   (H)   All of any materials to be disposed of shall be disposed of at a
state-approved disposal area.
   (I)   Any authorized material remaining on the premises at the completion of
the work will delay final acceptance until such material has been removed.
   (J)   The premises shall be left in an orderly condition, clean and free of
debris and or building materials.
   (K)   The burning of materials is not authorized or permitted.
   (L)   Care shall be taken by a permittee to prevent the occurrence of voids
in the fill or undue settlement after the fill has been placed.
   (M)   The operation of the permittee shall be done in such a manner as to
avoid hazard to persons’ and properties’ interference with the use of adjacent
buildings or the interruption of free passage to and from such buildings.
   (N)   (1)   After work is started on the building, it should be continued
promptly and expeditiously.
      (2)   The permittee shall satisfactorily complete the work within 30 days
from the date of issuance of the permit. If the work is not completed, the city
shall be entitled to make a claim to have the bonding company complete the job.
   (O)   The permittee shall, at all times, reserve and comply with the federal
and state laws, local ordinances and regulations which effect the conduct of
his or her work.
   (P)   The permittee shall be solely responsible for all claims and
liabilities arising from or based upon the violation of any such laws,
ordinances or regulations, whether by himself or herself or his or her
employees.
   (Q)   The permittee shall provide the city with a performance bond in the
amount to be determined by the Building Inspector and the bond is to be
approved by the Building Inspector to guarantee that he shall comply with all
the terms of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 23-1-14) (Ord. 4706, passed 2-19-1990)
§ 150.35 DEFINITION; BUILDING CONTRACTOR.
   The term BUILDING CONTRACTOR means any person, partnership, firm or
corporation who engages in the business of construction, alteration, addition,
repair, removal, demolition or maintenance of buildings or structures, but
shall not include “electrical contractor” or “plumbing contractor” or “gas, oil
and solid fuel burner contractor”, as defined by the ordinances of the city.
(1960 Code, § 23-1-15) (Ord. 5922, passed 10-19-1998)
§ 150.36 REGISTRATION.
   No person, partnership, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of
a building contractor in the city without first registering his or her name,
residence and place of business with the Building Official along with the
telephone number of said business.
(1960 Code, § 23-1-16) (Ord. 5922, passed 10-19-1998)
§ 150.37 DUMPSTER PERMIT.
   (A)   Any residential or commercial property that shall require the use of a
dumpster on a street, public sidewalk, alleyway or city right-of-way, shall
also obtain a dumpster/storage pod permit and pay the fee and comply with the
regulations set forth in the accompanying Building Permit Table No. 11 in §
150.38 of this chapter. The city will provide lighted barricades.
   (B)   Except as otherwise may be permitted by ordinance, no one may place a
dumpster or storage pod on any private or public property in the city without
registering the location with the city’s Building Department. All such
dumpsters or storage pods shall be removed within 30 days of the date of
placement.
(1960 Code, §23-1-17) (Ord. 5922, passed 10-19-1998; Ord. 6645, passed 5-3-
2004; Ord. 7300, passed 8-17-2009; Ord. 8313-2019, passed 3-18-2019)
 
§ 150.38 PERMIT TABLES.
   (A)   Building Permit Table No. 1.
COMBINATION PERMIT - SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
NEW CONSTRUCTION
(Includes new single-family homes or additions)
CALCULATION: Permit Fee = Gross Area x Gross Area Modifier x Type of
Construction x Permit Fee Multiplier
EXAMPLE: 1,940 sq. ft. single-family residence with a 1,940 sq. ft. unfinished
basement and a 400 sq. ft. attached garage
                            Type of Construction  = 5B
                            Height                = 1 story
                            Area                  = 1,940 sq. ft. with 400 sq.
PERMIT INFORMATION:                                 ft. attached garage
                            Basement              = 1,940 sq. ft. unfinished
                            Permit Fee Multiplier = 0.0075
                            Use Group             = R-3
FEE SPECIFICS
                            Residential           = 1 story x 1,940 sq. ft.
GROSS AREA:                 Garage                = 400 sq. ft.
                            Unfinished Basement   = 1,940 sq. ft.
GROSS AREA MODIFIER:                             = 61
TYPE OF CONSTRUCTION FACTOR Residential - R-3/5B  = 0.65
USING TABLE:                Garage                = 0.20
                            Unfinished Basement   = 0.20
                                                  = 1,940 sq. ft. x 61 x 0.65 x
                            Residence               0.00545185
                                                  = $419.36
                                                  = 400 sq. ft. x 61 x .20 x
PERMIT FEE:                 Garage                  0.00545185
                                                  = $26.61
                                                  = 1,940 sq. ft. x 61 x .20 x
                            Unfinished Basement     0.00545185
                                                  = $129.03
TOTAL PERMIT FEE:                                 = $575.00
STARTING WORK WITHOUT A PERMIT: DOUBLE THE FEE
 
 
   (B)   Building Permit Table No. 2.
COMBINATION PERMIT - TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
NEW CONSTRUCTION
(Includes new duplexes or additions)
 
CALCULATION: Permit Fee = Gross Area x Gross Area Modifier x Type of
Construction x Permit Fee Multiplier
EXAMPLE: 2,357 sq. ft. single-story two-family residence with no basement and
no garage
                            Type of Construction  = 3B
                            Height                = 1 story
PERMIT INFORMATION:         Area                  = 2,357 sq. ft.
                            Permit Fee Multiplier = 0.0075
                            Use Group             = R-3
FEE SPECIFICS
GROSS AREA:                 Residential           = 2,357 sq. ft.
GROSS AREA MODIFIER:                             = 61
TYPE OF CONSTRUCTION FACTOR Residential - R-3/3B  = 0.75
USING TABLE:
                                                  = 2,357 sq. ft. x 61 x 0.75 x
PERMIT FEE:                 Residence               0.0075
                                                   = $808.75
                                                    
TOTAL PERMIT FEE:                                 = $808.75
STARTING WORK WITHOUT A PERMIT: DOUBLE THE FEE
 
 
   (C)   Building Permit Table No. 3.
COMBINATION PERMIT - MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
NEW CONSTRUCTION
(Includes new multi-family buildings or additions to existing)
 
CALCULATION: Permit Fee = Gross Area x Gross Area Modifier x Type of
Construction x Permit Fee Multiplier
EXAMPLE: Two-story 12 family apartment building. Total square footage -
14,000.
                            Type of Construction  = 3B
                            Height                = 2 stories
PERMIT INFORMATION:         Area                  = 1st story - 7,000 sq. ft.
                                                   2nd story - 7,000 sq. ft.
                            Permit Fee Multiplier = 0.0075
                            Use Group             = R-2
FEE SPECIFICS
GROSS AREA:                 Building              = 2 stories x 7,000 sq. ft.
GROSS AREA MODIFIER:                             = 61
TYPE OF CONSTRUCTION FACTOR Residential - R-2/3B  = 0.75
USING TABLE:
                                                  = 14,000 sq. ft. x 61 x 0.75
PERMIT FEE:                 Building                x 0.0075
                                                  = $4,803.75
TOTAL PERMIT FEE:                                = $4,803.75
STARTING WORK WITHOUT A PERMIT: DOUBLE THE FEE
 
 
   (D)   Building Permit Table No. 4.
COMBINATION PERMIT - COMMERCIAL BUILDING PERMIT
NEW CONSTRUCTION
(Includes new commercial buildings or additions)
 
CALCULATION: Permit Fee = Gross Area x Gross Area Modifier x Type of
Construction x Permit Fee Multiplier
EXAMPLE: 9,900 sq. ft. one story commercial building
                            Type of Construction  = 3B
                            Height                = 1 story
PERMIT INFORMATION:         Area                  = 9,900 sq. ft.
                            Permit Fee Multiplier = 0.0075
                            Use Group             = B
FEE SPECIFICS
GROSS AREA:                 Building              = 9,900 sq. ft.
GROSS AREA MODIFIER:                             = 61
TYPE OF CONSTRUCTION FACTOR Residential - B3/B    = 0.91
USING TABLE:
                                                  = 9,900 sq. ft. x 61 x 0.91 x
PERMIT FEE:                 Building                0.0075
                                                  = $4,121.62
TOTAL PERMIT FEE:                                 = $4,121.62
STARTING WORK WITHOUT A PERMIT: DOUBLE THE FEE
 
 
   (E)   Building Permit Table No. 5.
COMBINATION PERMIT - TENANT FINISH COMMERCIAL
(Includes all tenant finishes for commercial use)
 
CALCULATION: Permit Fee = Gross Area x Gross Area Modifier x Type of
Construction x Permit Fee Multiplier
EXAMPLE: 3,480 sq. ft. tenant finish
                            Type of Construction  = 3B
PERMIT INFORMATION:         Area                  = 3,480 sq. ft.
                            Permit Fee Multiplier = 0.0098
FEE SPECIFICS                                      
GROSS AREA:                 Building              = 3,480 sq. ft.
ADJUSTED GROSS AREA                              = 31
MODIFIER:
TYPE OF CONSTRUCTION FACTOR Residential - B3/B    = 0.91
USING TABLE:
                            Building              = 3,480 sq. ft. x 31 x 0.91 x
PERMIT FEE:                                         0.0098
                                                 = $962.07
TOTAL PERMIT FEE:                                = $962.07
STARTING WORK WITHOUT A PERMIT: DOUBLE THE FEE
 
 
   (F)   Building Permit Table No. 6.
COMBINATION PERMIT - RESIDENTIAL REHAB
(Includes all residential rehabs)
 
CALCULATION: Permit Fee = Gross Area x Gross Area Modifier x Type of
Construction x Permit Fee Multiplier
EXAMPLE: 1,660 sq. ft. residential rehab
                            Type of Construction  = 5B
PERMIT INFORMATION:         Area                  = 1,660 sq. ft.
                            Permit Fee Multiplier = 0.0098
FEE SPECIFICS
GROSS AREA:                 Residential           = 1,660 sq. ft.
ADJUSTED GROSS AREA                              = 31
MODIFIER:
TYPE OF CONSTRUCTION FACTOR Residential - R-3/5B  = 0.65
USING TABLE:
                                                  = 1,660 sq. ft. x 31 x 0.65 x
PERMIT FEE:                 Residence               0.0098
                                                   = $327.80
TOTAL PERMIT FEE:                                = $327.80
STARTING WORK WITHOUT A PERMIT: DOUBLE THE FEE
 
 
   (G)   Building Permit Table No. 7.
COMBINATION PERMIT - MANUFACTURED HOMES
(Includes all manufactured and mobile homes)
 
TOTAL PERMIT FEE: = $150  
                    $35  Plumbing
 Based on:          $30  Gas
                    $60  Electric
                    $25  Building
 TOTAL FEES:        $150  
STARTING WORK WITHOUT A PERMIT: DOUBLE THE FEE
 
 
   (H)   Building Permit Table No. 8.
INDIVIDUAL PERMIT - BUILDING - RESIDENTIAL
(Includes sheds, windows, doors, roof sheathing)
 
MINIMUM PERMIT: Residential: = $45.00
CALCULATION: Permit Fee = Gross Area x Gross Area Modifier x Type of
Construction x Permit Fee Multiplier
EXAMPLE: 20 x 24' detached garage (Residential)
                    Type of Construction  = N/A                               
                    Height                = 1 story                           
PERMIT INFORMATION: Area                  = 480 sq. ft.                       
                    Permit Fee Multiplier = 0.0075                            
                    Use Group             = R-3                               
FEE SPECIFICS
GROSS AREA:         Residential           = 480 sq. ft.                       
GROSS AREA MODIFIER:                      = 61                                
TYPE OF CONSTRUCTION FACTOR USING TABLE:  = .20                               
PERMIT FEE:                               = 480 sq. ft. x 61 x 0.20 x 0.0075  
                                          = $43.92                            
TOTAL PERMIT FEE:                        = $43.92                            
(Please note: Since this fee dopes not meet the minimum permit fee, $45.00
would be charged.)
STARTING WORK WITHOUT A PERMIT: DOUBLE THE FEE
 
 
   (I)   Building Permit Table No. 9.
INDIVIDUAL PERMIT - BUILDING - COMMERCIAL
(Includes sheds, windows, doors, siding, roof sheathing)
 
MINIMUM PERMIT: Commercial: = $75.00
CALCULATION: Permit Fee = Gross Area x Gross Area Modifier x Type of
Construction x Permit Fee Multiplier
EXAMPLE:800 sq. ft. storage building (Commercial)
                    Type of Construction  = 5B
                    Height                = 1 story
PERMIT INFORMATION: Area                  = 800 sq. ft.
                    Permit Fee Multiplier = 0.0098
                    Use Group             = S-2
FEE SPECIFICS
GROSS AREA:         Building              = 800 sq. ft.
GROSS AREA MODIFIER:                      = 61
TYPE OF CONSTRUCTION FACTOR USING TABLE:  = .37
PERMIT FEE:                               = 800 sq. ft. x 61 x 0.37 x 0.0075
                                          = $135.42
TOTAL PERMIT FEE:                         = $135.42
STARTING WORK WITHOUT A PERMIT: DOUBLE THE FEE
 
 
   (J)   Building Permit Table No. 10.
 
 
INDIVIDUAL PERMIT - DEMOLITION
RESIDENTIAL/COMMERCIAL
 
PERMIT FEE: = $50
Requires a demolition bond on file with the City of Belleville in the amount to
be determined by the City of Belleville Building and Zoning Commissioner. Bond
required can be anywhere between $1,000.00 - $5,000.00.
 
STARTING WORK WITHOUT A PERMIT: DOUBLE THE FEE
 
 
   (K)   Building Permit Table No. 11.
 
INDIVIDUAL PERMIT - DUMPSTER
DUMPSTER/STORAGE POD PERMIT ON STREET: = $50 for 30 days
All debris and stored items must be kept inside dumpster or storage pod.
Department will notify Police Department of current permits.
PLACING DUMPSTER OR STORAGE POD WITHOUT A PERMIT: DOUBLE THE FEE
 
   (L)   Electric Permit Table.
INDIVIDUAL PERMIT - ELECTRIC
(Used for upgrading services and wiring)
Fee schedule based upon service size, plus additional electrical work to be
performed
   Residential Service - $75
   Commercial Service - $75
   Residential Code Correction Repairs - $75
Energy management system installations = $100
Service station pumps - $10 per pump
Electrical appliance permit - $10 per appliance - water heater and furnace
Illuminated signs - $25 per sign
Letters of certification - $75, plus $5 for each 1,000 sq. ft. of area
certified or fraction thereof
Elevator fee - $50 (electrical permit for installation)
Inspections are done by the company performing the installation
Minor electrical work in addition to a service upgrade - $15
Minimum fee for any permit - $15
Examination registration fee- $25
License fee - $50 annually
After May 1, and up to 60 days, renewal fee shall be $100 after which the
electrical contractor must complete process for new applicant
Bond requirement - $10,000
 
WORK STARTED WITHOUT APPLYING FOR A PERMIT: DOUBLE THE FEE
 
 
   (M)   Plumbing Permit Table No. 1.
 
 
INDIVIDUAL PERMIT - PLUMBING
(Used for individual fixture additions or replacements)
 
FIXTURE: $8 each
REQUESTED INSPECTIONS: $50 per trip
MORE THAN 3 TRIPS ON A PERMIT: $50 per trip
 
WORK STARTED WITHOUT APPLYING FOR A PERMIT: DOUBLE THE FEE
 
 
   (N)   HVAC Permit Table No. 1.
FEE PROPOSAL
INDIVIDUAL PERMIT - HVAC
(Used for individual addition or replacement of gas fired appliances)
FEE IS APPLICATION TO EACH UNIT INSTALLED
      SCHEDULE:
 INPUT/BTU                                          FEES
 0-200,000                                          $15.00
 200,001-500,000                                    $20.00
 500,001-1,000,000                                  $30.00
 1,000,001 and over                                 $50.00
 Solid Fuel Burning Devices                         $15.00
 Gas Logs and Log Starters                          $15.00
 Additional Inspections over the number is required $50.00
  to ensure compliance with pertinent codes
 Replacement of a gas appliance in a single-family  $10.00 per appliance
 Family residence                                    
 Appliances to include:                             Water Heater
                                                   Furnace
                                                   Boiler
                                                   Gas Logs and Log Lighter
                                                   Solid Fuel Devices
                                                   Wood Furnaces
                                                   Fireplaces
WORK STARTED BEFORE APPLYING FOR A PERMIT: DOUBLE THE FEE
 
   (O)   Residential Solar Energy Systems Permit Table 1.
 
Residential Solar Energy Systems                             Permit Fee
Construction cost $10,000 or less                            $200
Construction cost over $10,000 up to $50,000                 $250
Construction cost over $50,000                               $300
The standard permit fee, plan review fee, energy
conservation plan review and inspection fee are all included
in the aforementioned fees. Fees for any "additional
inspection" required including inspections for compliance    $75 per inspection
with approved development or site plans or fees for any
"additional inspection" that may be required are not shown
here and shall be added to the total payment fee.
 
   (P)   Commercial and Industrial Solar Energy Systems Permit Table 1.
Commercial and Industrial Permit Fee Schedule
Cost     Fee    Cost     Fee    Cost     Fee    Cost     Fee    Cost     Fee
Thousand Amount Thousand Amount Thousand Amount Thousand Amount Thousand Amount
Commercial and Industrial Permit Fee Schedule
Cost     Fee     Cost     Fee     Cost     Fee       Cost     Fee       Cost     Fee
Thousand Amount  Thousand Amount  Thousand Amount    Thousand Amount    Thousand Amount
Up to 1  $104.68 Up to 30 $423.56 Up to 78 $814.92   Up to    $1,728.08 Up to    $4,222.76
                                                     190                540
Up to 2  $143.34 Up to 31 $439.67 Up to 80 $831.02   Up to    $1,760.29 Up to    $4,351.60
                                                     195                560
Up to 3  $169.10 Up to 32 $439.67 Up to 82 $848.74   Up to    $1,792.50 Up to    $4,483.66
                                                     200                580
Up to 4  $196.48 Up to 33 $439.67 Up to 84 $864.84   Up to    $1,874.63 Up to    $4,610.89
                                                     210                600
Up to 5  $244.80 Up to 34 $455.77 Up to 86 $879.34   Up to    $1,955.16 Up to    $4,742.95
                                                     220                620
Up to 6  $278.62 Up to 35 $455.77 Up to 88 $897.05   Up to    $2,030.85 Up to    $4,875.01
                                                     230                640
Up to 7  $293.11 Up to 36 $471.88 Up to 90 $929.26   Up to    $2,103.33 Up to    $5,003.85
                                                     240                660
Up to 8  $325.32 Up to 37 $473.49 Up to 92 $945.37   Up to    $2,183.85 Up to    $5,134.31
                                                     250                680
Up to 9  $339.82 Up to 38 $489.60 Up to 94 $963.08   Up to    $2,248.27 Up to    $5,266.37
                                                     260                700
Up to 10 $343.04 Up to 39 $491.21 Up to 96 $977.58   Up to    $2,332.02 Up to    $5,395.21
                                                     270                720
Up to 11 $343.04 Up to 40 $505.70 Up to 98 $995.30   Up to    $2,332.02 Up to    $5,525.66
                                                     280                740
Up to 12 $343.04 Up to 42 $521.81 Up to    $1,009.79 Up to    $2,478.57 Up to    $5,656.11
                                  100                290                760
Up to 13 $343.04 Up to 44 $537.91 Up to    $1,043.61 Up to    $2,541.38 Up to    $5,786.56
                                  105                300                780
Up to 14 $343.04 Up to 46 $552.40 Up to    $1,091.93 Up to    $2,571.98 Up to    $5,918.62
                                  110                310                800
Up to 15 $343.04 Up to 48 $571.73 Up to    $1,122.53 Up to    $2,691.16 Up to    $6,047.47
                                  115                320                820
Up to 16 $344.65 Up to 50 $586.23 Up to    $1,174.06 Up to    $2,752.36 Up to    $6,160.20
                                  120                330                840
Up to 17 $357.53 Up to 52 $603.94 Up to    $1,204.66 Up to    $2,834.50 Up to    $6,290.65
                                  125                340                860
Up to 18 $357.53 Up to 54 $634.54 Up to    $1,256.20 Up to    $2,900.53 Up to    $6,421.10
                                  130                350                880
Up to 19 $376.86 Up to 56 $636.15 Up to    $1,288.41 Up to    $2,981.05 Up to    $6,551.55
                                  135                360                900
Up to 20 $376.86 Up to 58 $650.65 Up to    $1,336.72 Up to    $3,048.70 Up to    $6,665.90
                                  140                370                920
Up to 21 $376.86 Up to 60 $669.97 Up to    $1,368.93 Up to    $3,111.51 Up to    $6,796.35
                                  145                380                940
Up to 22 $378.47 Up to 62 $684.47 Up to    $1,417.25 Up to    $3,193.64 Up to    $6,925.19
                                  150                390                960
Up to 23 $376.86 Up to 64 $702.18 Up to    $1,451.07 Up to    $3,259.67 Up to    $7,041.15
                                  155                400                980
Up to 24 $391.35 Up to 66 $716.68 Up to    $1,483.28 Up to    $3,390.12          
                                  160                420
Up to 25 $391.35 Up to 68 $734.39 Up to    $1,531.60 Up to    $3,536.68          
                                  165                440
Up to 26 $409.07 Up to 70 $750.50 Up to    $1,563.81 Up to    $3,668.74          
                                  170                460
Up to 27 $409.07 Up to 72 $766.60 Up to    $1,615.34 Up to    $3,813.69          
                                  175                480
Up to 28 $423.56 Up to 74 $782.71 Up to    $1,647.55 Up to    $3,944.14          
                                  180                500
Up to 29 $423.56 Up to 76 $798.81 Up to    $1,679.76 Up to    $4,074.59          
                                  185                520
 
Commercial and Industrial Permit Fee Schedule
Cost     Fee    Cost     Fee    Cost     Fee    Cost     Fee    Cost     Fee
Millions Amount Millions Amount Millions Amount Millions Amount Millions Amount
Commercial and Industrial Permit Fee Schedule
Cost     Fee Amount Cost     Fee Amount Cost     Fee Amount Cost     Fee Amount  Cost     Fee Amount
Millions            Millions            Millions            Millions             Millions
Up to    $7,756.22  Up to    $22,067.21 Up to    $45,709.49 Up to    $96,086.25  Up to    $159,582.21
1.1                 3.7                 8.6                 19.5                 32.5
Up to    $8,355.33  Up to    $22,587.40 Up to    $46,617.82 Up to    $98,382.83  Up to    $162,036.63
1.2                 3.8                 8.8                 20.0                 33.0
Up to    $8,957.66  Up to    $23,091.49 Up to    $47,526.15 Up to    $100,845.30 Up to    $164,491.05
1.3                 3.9                 9.0                 20.5                 33.5
Up to    $9,540.66  Up to    $23,610.08 Up to    $48,436.09 Up to    $103,301.33 Up to    $166,945.47
1.4                 4.0                 9.2                 21.0                 34.0
Up to    $10,125.28 Up to    $24,615.03 Up to    $49,344.42 Up to    $105,763.80 Up to    $166,945.47
1.5                 4.2                 9.4                 21.5                 34.5
Up to    $10,708.28 Up to    $25,636.10 Up to    $50,252.74 Up to    $108,218.22 Up to    $196,068.32
1.6                 4.4                 9.6                 22.0                 40.0
Up to    $11,278.40 Up to    $26,628.17 Up to    $51,161.07 Up to    $110,680.69 Up to    $198,522.74
1.7                 4.6                 9.8                 22.5                 40.5
Up to    $11,845.30 Up to    $27,634.74 Up to    $52,053.29 Up to    $113,135.11 Up to    $200,969.10
1.8                 4.8                 10.0                23.0                 41.0
Up to    $12,413.81 Up to    $28,530.82 Up to    $54,291.90 Up to    $115,599.19 Up to    $203,423.52
1.9                 5.0                 10.5                23.5                 41.5
Up to    $12,980.71 Up to    $29,614.06 Up to    $56,516.02 Up to    $118,053.60 Up to    $205,869.88
2.0                 5.2                 11.0                24.0                 42.0
Up to    $13,531.51 Up to    $30,586.81 Up to    $58,722.42 Up to    $120,516.07 Up to    $208,324.30
2.1                 5.4                 11.5                24.5                 42.5
Up to    $14,083.91 Up to    $31,561.16 Up to    $60,928.81 Up to    $122,970.49 Up to    $210,770.66
2.2                 5.6                 12.0                25.0                 43.0
Up to    $14,636.31 Up to    $32,533.91 Up to    $63,103.00 Up to    $125,434.57 Up to    $213,225.08
2.3                 5.8                 12.5                25.5                 43.5
Up to    $15,187.11 Up to    $33,490.56 Up to    $65,278.80 Up to    $127,888.99 Up to    $215,671.45
2.4                 6.0                 13.0                26.0                 44.0
Up to    $15,739.51 Up to    $34,463.30 Up to    $67,433.66 Up to    $130,351.46 Up to    $218,125.86
2.5                 6.2                 13.5                26.5                 44.5
Up to    $16,275.81 Up to    $35,423.17 Up to    $69,593.36 Up to    $132,805.88 Up to    $220,572.23
2.6                 6.4                 14.0                27.0                 45.0
Up to    $16,808.89 Up to    $36,345.99 Up to    $71,735.34 Up to    $135,268.35 Up to    $223,028.26
2.7                 6.6                 14.5                27.5                 45.5
Up to    $17,343.58 Up to    $37,318.74 Up to    $73,861.21 Up to    $137,722.76 Up to    $225,473.01
2.8                 6.8                 15.0                28.0                 46.0
Up to    $17,881.49 Up to    $38,260.89 Up to    $76,383.27 Up to    $140,186.84 Up to    $227,929.04
2.9                 7.0                 15.5                28.5                 46.5
Up to    $18,417.79 Up to    $39,201.42 Up to    $78,845.74 Up to    $142,641.26 Up to    $230,375.40
3.0                 7.2                 16.0                29.0                 47.0
Up to    $18,954.09 Up to    $40,141.96 Up to    $81,308.21 Up to    $145,103.73 Up to    $232,829.82
3.1                 7.4                 16.5                29.5                 47.5
Up to    $19,471.07 Up to    $41,084.11 Up to    $83,772.29 Up to    $147,308.52 Up to    $235,276.18
3.2                 7.6                 17.0                30.0                 48.0
Up to    $19,991.26 Up to    $42,008.54 Up to    $86,234.76 Up to    $149,762.94 Up to    $237,730.60
3.3                 7.8                 17.5                30.5                 48.5
Up to    $20,527.56 Up to    $42,934.59 Up to    $88,697.23 Up to    $152,218.96 Up to    $240,176.97
3.4                 8.0                 18.0                31.0                 49.0
Up to    $20,997.83 Up to    $43,860.63 Up to    $91,161.31 Up to    $154,673.38 Up to    $242,631.38
3.5                 8.2                 18.5                31.5                 49.5
Up to    $21,555.07 Up to    $44,783.45 Up to    $93,623.78 Up to    $157,127.80 Up to    $244,660.63
3.6                 8.4                 19.0                32.0                 50.0
 
(1960 Code, Permit Tables) (Ord. 6670, passed 8-2-2004; Ord. 7831, passed 12-
16-2014; Ord. 8313-2019, passed 3-18-2019; Ord. 8411-2020, passed 1-21-2020;
Ord. 9044-2022, passed 5-2-2022; Ord. 9131-2023, passed 3-6-2023)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Non-compliance. A person who shall violate a provision of this chapter
or fails to comply therewith or with any of the requirements thereof, or who
shall erect, construct, alter or repair, or has erected, altered or repaired a
building or structure or portion thereof, in violation of a detailed statement
or plan submitted and approved thereunder, or of a permit or certificate issued
thereunder, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not less
than $250, nor more than $1,000. Each day such violation is committed or
permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable hereunder as such. Also, the owner of a building or structure or
portion thereof, or of the premises where anything in violation of this chapter
shall be placed or shall exist, and an architect, engineer, builder,
contractor, agent, person or corporation employed in connection therewith who
has assisted in the commission of such violation shall each be guilty of a
separate offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine of
not less than $250, nor more than $1,000; each day such violation is committed
or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable hereunder as such. The court shall also order as part of the
judgment that the defendant comply with all applicable codes and ordinances
relating to the property which is the subject of the violation.
   (B)   Abatement. The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not
preclude the Corporation Counsel from instituting an appropriate action or
proceeding to prevent an unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or use, or to restrain, correct or
abate a violation, or to prevent the occupancy of a building or structure or
portion thereof, or of the premises, or to prevent an illegal act, conduct,
business or use in or about any premises.
(1960 Code, § 23-1-13) (Ord. 2641, passed - -; Ord. 7096, passed 4-8-2008)
CHAPTER 151: ELECTRICAL CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Definition
   
151.02   Electrical Commission
   
151.03   Electrical Inspector
   
151.04   Standards
   
151.05   Permits; fee schedule
   
151.06   Inspections
   
151.07   Certificate of approval
   
151.08   National Electrical Code
   
151.09   Time of inspection
   
151.10   Records
   
151.11   Installation regulations
   
151.12   Fees
   
151.13   Right of appeal
   
151.14   User changes; Ameren Illinois to notify city
Electrical Installation Rules
   
151.25   General
   
151.26   Additional load on existing service
   
151.27   Service entrances
   
151.28   Requirements for commercial buildings
   
151.29   Requirements for residential buildings
Electrical Contractors; Licensing
   
151.40   Definitions
   
151.41   License required
   
151.42   Business requirements
   
151.43   Qualifications of applicants
   
151.44   Application procedures
   
151.45   Fees
   
151.46   Failure to pass examination
   
151.47   Reserved
   
151.48   Suspension or revocation of license
   
151.49   Hearing on suspension or revocation of license
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 DEFINITION.
   The term ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT, as used in this chapter, means conductors and
equipment installed for the utilization of electricity, but does not include
apparatus, conductors and other equipment installed by public utilities,
including common carriers, which are under the jurisdiction of the state’s
Commerce Commission, for use in their operation as public utilities.
(1960 Code, § 24-1-1)
§ 151.02 ELECTRICAL COMMISSION.
   (A)   (1)   There is hereby established an Electrical Commission which shall
consist of eight members. The Electrical Inspector and Chief Fire Inspector, or
the Chief of the Fire Department, shall be ex-officio members of such
Commission. The other six members shall be appointed as follows:
         (a)   One licensed electrical contractor registered with the City of
Belleville for at least five years before appointment;
         (b)   One journeyman master electrician with at least five consecutive
years experience before appointment;
         (c)   One consulting professional or electrical engineer;
         (d)   One representative of an electrical utility company; and
         (e)   Two consumer members or of the general public, each being:
            1.   A resident of the City of Belleville or have employment within
the city limits;
            2.   Not subject to regulation by the Electrical Commission; and
            3.   Not having any financial interest or receiving compensation
from a person or company regulated by the Electrical Commission, nor within the
last two years before appointment.
      (2)   Such members shall be appointed for a term of four years by the
Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council.
      (3)   The Electrical Commission shall elect one member to serve as
chairperson from among those appointed. The chairperson shall appoint a vice
chairperson and a recording secretary from among the members.
      (4)   The Electrical Inspector and the Chief Fire Inspector shall serve
on such Commission without additional compensation therefor. The appointed
members shall likewise receive no compensation as members of the Commission.
(1960 Code, § 24-1-2)
   (B)   The Electrical Commission shall recommend safe and practical standards
and specifications for the installation, alteration and use of electrical
equipment designed to meet the necessities and conditions that prevail in the
city, shall ascertain by written and/or oral examination, the knowledge and
experience of all applicants for registration all applicants who have
satisfactorily passed the examination. It shall recommend reasonable rules and
regulations governing the issuance of permits by the Electrical Inspection
Department. It shall recommend reasonable fees to be paid for permits and
inspection by the Electrical Inspection Department of all electrical equipment
installed or altered within the city. Such standards and specifications, rules
and regulations and fees shall not become effective until adopted by ordinance
by the City Council.
(1960 Code, § 24-1-3) (Ord. 8412-2020, passed 1-21-2020; Am. Ord. 8881-2020,
passed 10-19-2020)
§ 151.03 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Office of Electrical Inspector. The person
chosen to fill the office of Electrical Inspector shall be a competent
electrician of good moral character. He or she shall have had at least five
years’ experience as a journeyman in the practice of his or her trade, or three
years’ training in a recognized college of electrical engineering and in
addition thereto, two years of practical experience in electrical construction.
He or she shall have knowledge of the statutes of the state relating to
electrical work and rules and regulation issued by the Fire Marshal of the
state under authority of the safety rules and standards approved by the
American Engineering Standards Committee. The Electrical Inspector shall be
appointed by the Mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the City Council.
   (B)   The salary of the Electrical Inspector shall be set by the City
Council.
   (C)   Any official or employee connected with the Office of Electrical
Inspector shall not engage in, directly or indirectly, with the furnishing of
labor, materials or appliances for the construction, alteration or maintenance
of electrical installations over which they may have official authority.
   (D)   The Electrical Inspector shall reside in Belleville or within ten
miles of the city limits.
(1960 Code, § 24-1-4) (Ord. 7821, passed 11-17-2014)
§ 151.04 STANDARDS.
   No electrical equipment shall be installed or altered, except upon a permit
issued by the Electrical Inspection Department.
(1960 Code, § 24-1-5)
§ 151.05 PERMITS; FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   (1)   Permits are required for all electrical installations,
alterations and replacement of major appliances as detailed in §
151.11. Permits are not required for minor electrical repairs and/or
replacement of electrical wiring devices.
      (2)   Application for permit shall be made by the designated person of a
firm to install all or any part of an electrical system. The applicant shall
meet all qualifications established under this chapter. The permit application
for commercial or industrial jobs shall be accompanied by four or more complete
sets of construction drawings, specifications and construction documents. The
applicant shall file adequate details of electrical work including
computations, diagrams and other essential technical data. All construction
documents shall be signed and sealed by a registered design professional
engineer. The Electrical Inspector is permitted to waive the requirements for
filing construction documents when the scope of work is of a minor nature or
can be adequately described by other means.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (A)(2) above, application for permit
related to the installation of, or alteration to, a burglar alarm, fire alarm,
security alarm or other related system, if such is required by this chapter,
shall be made by the property owner of the premises related to such
installation or alteration.
(1960 Code, § 24-1-6)
   (B)   See §
150.38(L) for the electrical permit fee schedule.
(1960 Code, § 24.1-1)
(Ord. 7831, passed 12-16-2014; Ord. 7885, passed 8-17-2015)
§ 151.06 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Electrical Inspector shall inspect and shall require that all
installations conform to the edition of the National Electrical Code as
published by the National Fire Protection Association, Inc., and as adopted by
the City of Belleville, and all subsequent corrections and updates thereof.
   (B)   The Electrical Inspector shall have the right during reasonable hours
to enter any building in the discharge of his or her official duties, for the
purpose of making any inspection or test of the installation or alteration of
electrical equipment contained therein, and shall have the authority to cause
the turning off of all electrical currents and to cut or disconnect any
conductors where such electrical currents are dangerous to life or property, or
may interfere with the work of the Fire Department.
   (C)   Any reinspection made necessary by the installer’s failure to meet
this Code shall be charged for each additional inspection, the minimum fee as
per fee schedule.
(1960 Code, § 24-1-7) (Ord. 7821, passed 11-17-2014; Ord. 7831, passed 12-16-
2014; Ord. 8412-2020, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 151.07 CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL.
   (A)   Upon the completion of the installation or alteration of electrical
equipment in any building, it shall be the duty of the person installing or
altering the same to notify the Electrical Inspector who shall inspect the work
as soon as practical after such notice is given and, if such electrical
installation is found to be fully in compliance with this Code, he or she shall
issue a certificate of approval authorizing connection to the electrical
service.
   (B)   All wiring which is to be concealed shall be inspected and a
certificate of approval issued before concealment and any person installing
such wiring shall notify the Electrical Inspector giving him or her a minimum
of two working days in which to make the required inspection before such wiring
is concealed.
(1960 Code, § 24-1-8) (Ord. 8412-2020, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 151.08 NATIONAL ELECTRIC CODE.
   No certificate of approval will be issued unless the electrical installation
is in strict conformity with the provisions of this chapter, the statutes of
the state, the 2014 edition of the National Electrical Code as published by the
National Fire Protection Association, Inc., and Section 605 of the 2015
International Fire Code.
(1960 Code, § 24-1-9) (Ord. 7408, passed 7-6-2010; Ord. 7831, passed 12-16-
2014; Ord. 8412-2020, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 151.09 TIME OF INSPECTION.
   The provisions for inspection of work authorized by the permits shall not be
construed as prohibiting the inspection of any electrical installation whenever
the Electrical Inspector shall determine that the public safety requires it.
(1960 Code, § 24-1-10)
§ 151.10 RECORDS.
   The Electrical Inspection Department shall keep complete records of all
permits issued and inspections made and other official work performed under the
provisions of this Code.
(1960 Code, § 24-1-11)
§ 151.11 INSTALLATION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Where any building is undergoing remodeling, all changes to be made to
the electrical installation must be reviewed with the Electrical Inspector and
a permit obtained before the work proceeds.
   (B)   Permits shall be issued to licensed electrical contractors or a
homeowner, provided the homeowner personally performs the electrical work and
provided that the electrical work is to be installed in the home occupied by
the owner and that the home is a single-family residence. All electrical work
performed on rental property, commercial property and/or industrial property
shall be performed by an electrical contractor licensed by the City of
Belleville.
   (C)   Homeowner permits are not required for minor electrical repairs. MINOR
ELECTRICAL REPAIRS shall be defined as replacement of outlets, switches,
lampholders, light fixtures, fractional HP motors (of the same HP), where
replacement does not require any alteration of the existing wiring.
   (D)   Permits may also be issued to specialized contractors, bonded with the
city, engaged in the business of installing major electrical appliances, solely
for the reconnection of major appliances, furnaces, condensing units and water
heaters from the existing disconnect mounted at or near the unit where the
reconnection does not require any alteration of the existing wiring.
   (E)   When a permit is issued, as provided herein, the Electrical Inspector
will inspect such installation and will issue a certificate of approval if the
installation meets the requirements of this Code.
(1960 Code, § 24-1-12) (Ord. 8412-2020, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 151.12 FEES.
   (A)   The office of the Electrical Inspector shall collect all fees in
advance and shall turn all fees over to the City Treasurer.
   (B)   Fees for electrical permits shall be based upon and as set forth on
the accompanying fee schedule. In cases where any work for which an electrical
permit is required has been started without the issuance of the necessary
permit, the total fees as required for the permit shall be doubled. Permit fees
are to be paid before the electrical permit shall be issued.
(1960 Code, § 24-1-13) (Ord. 8412-2020, passed 1-21-2020)
§ 151.13 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   Any permit holder not in agreement with the decision of the Electrical
Inspector shall have the right to appeal to the Electrical Commission of the
city and the decision of the Electrical Commission shall be final in all cases.
The Electrical Inspector shall not serve on the Board of Appeal.
(1960 Code, § 24-1-14)
§ 151.14 USER CHANGES; AMEREN ILLINOIS TO NOTIFY CITY.
   Any month when there is a change of username of residential or non-
residential electric service within the city, Ameren Illinois shall notify the
Building Commission (or other appropriate official) of the city in writing
within seven working days after the end of the month of said changes,
indicating the address and apartment or unit number in whose name the service
is connected or billed.
(1960 Code, § 24-1-15) (Ord. 6433, passed 6-17-2002; Ord. 8412-2020, passed 1-
21-2020)
ELECTRICAL INSTALLATION RULES
§ 151.25 GENERAL.
   All work shall be done in a neat and workmanlike manner and it shall be
unlawful for any person in any way to alter or change any electrical wiring or
to knowingly permit such electrical wiring to be altered or changed unless done
in conformity with this Code.
(1960 Code, § 24-2-1) (Ord. 7301, passed 8-17-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.26 ADDITIONAL LOAD ON EXISTING SERVICE.
   Any and all additional load to an existing service shall be in complete
compliance with the requirements of the current edition of the National
Electrical Code then in effect.
(1960 Code, § 24-2-2)
§ 151.27 SERVICE ENTRANCES.
   All service conductors shall be in complete compliance with the requirements
of the National Electrical Code then in effect and the standards of the
applicable utility company.
(1960 Code, § 24-2-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.28 REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS.
   Any and all electrical work for commercial building shall be in complete
compliance with the requirements of the current edition of the National
Electrical Code then in effect.
(1960 Code, § 24-2-4) (Ord. 7301, passed 8-17-2009; Ord. 8412-2020, passed 1-
21-2020; Ord. 8432-2020, passed 3-2-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.29 REQUIREMENTS FOR RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS.
   Any and all electrical work for residential building shall be in complete
compliance with the requirements of the current edition of the National
Electrical Code then in effect.
(1960 Code, § 24-2-5) (Ord. 7301, passed 8-17-2009; Ord. 8412-2020, passed 1-
21-2020; Ord. 8432-2020, passed 3-2-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS; LICENSING
§ 151.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DESIGNATED PERSON. Any person, partnership, firm or corporation seeking an
electrical contractor’s or electrical sign contractor’s license shall designate
an individual owner, partner or officer that is a full-time employee to apply
for, take and pass the examination hereinafter described. The owner, officer or
partner must be a full-time employee drawing a salary comparable to that of an
owner, officer or partner. The city shall request proof that the person
designated is an owner, partner, officer and full-time employee. If the license
fails to provide proof within 14 days of the request, the license may be
revoked. The electrical contractor’s or electrical sign contractor’s license
shall be issued to the person, partnership, firm or corporation designating the
person and such license shall be valid as long as the DESIGNATED PERSON remains
an owner, partner or officer and full-time employee of such firm and pays the
annual registration fee prescribed hereinafter. Such designated person shall be
deemed to be in charge of and responsible for the supervision of any electrical
work performed in the city. An individual may serve as the DESIGNATED PERSON
for only one electrical contractor. The DESIGNATED PERSON shall produce such
evidence as the Electrical Commission may require to establish that the
individual is an owner, partner or officer of the corporation for which the
individual is serving as the DESIGNATED PERSON. An individual serving as
DESIGNATED PERSON for an electrical contractor shall not be employed by another
electrical contractor. In the event the DESIGNATED PERSON is terminated, laid-
off, sick or otherwise incapable of accepting the responsibilities thereof, the
company will have one calendar year in order to appoint another DESIGNATED
PERSON. In order for this grace period to become effective, the company will be
required to furnish the city with a bond in accordance with §
151.45 for the duration of such period. If no DESIGNATED PERSON is appointed by
the company within one year, the company's electrical license shall be
immediately revoked.
   ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR. Any person, partnership, firm or corporation whose
principal business is the installing or altering of electrical equipment,
including persons engaged in the business of installing, erecting or altering
any electrical service or equipment and making service connections of material,
wiring, fixtures, machinery and other apparatus to be used, or in use for the
generation and utilization of electricity, the transmission of light, lighting
(direct or indirect), heat, air conditioning or power in or on any building or
premises in the city; or a person engaged in the installing, erecting or
altering of electrical apparatus for remote controls or systems that are
pertinent to public health or safety; or grounding or bonding of any type,
including status or cathodic; and all raceways, or engaged in the installation,
erecting, altering or maintenance of signs. This shall include, but not be
limited to, all 120-volt or more circuits serving systems such as fire alarms,
security device and burglar alarms that interfere with building systems.
   ELECTRICAL SIGN CONTRACTOR. Any person, partnership, firm or corporation who
engages in the business of installing, erecting, altering or maintaining any
electrical service or equipment relating to signs.
(1960 Code, § 24-3-1) (Ord. 7408, passed 7-6-2010; Ord. 8412-2020, passed 1-21-
2020)
§ 151.41 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, partnership, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of
electrical contractor or electrical sign contractor, as defined above, without
first being licensed as an electrical contractor or electrical sign contractor,
as hereinafter set forth.
(1960 Code, § 24-3-2) (Ord. 7408, passed 7-6-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.42 BUSINESS REQUIREMENTS.
   Each electrical contractor or electrical sign contractor licensed by the
city shall meet each of the following requirements:
   (A)   Have and maintain an established street addressed place of business;
   (B)   Have and maintain a means to receive telephone calls at all times; and
   (C)   Have all service type vehicles engaged in the business visibly
identified with the name of the business.
(1960 Code, § 24-3-3) (Ord. 7408, passed 7-6-2010)
§ 151.43 QUALIFICATIONS OF APPLICANTS.
   (A)   The Electrical Commission shall receive, record and preserve all
applications from persons made for an electrical contractor’s or electrical
sign contractor’s license.
   (B)   An applicant for an electrical contractor’s or electrical sign
contractor’s license must be at least 21 years of age and satisfy one of the
following requirements:
      (1)   Furnish written evidence that he or she is a graduate electrical
engineer of an accredited college or university and has one year of practical
electrical experience in the construction industry;
      (2)   He or she is a graduate of a recognized two-year electrical trade
school or school of electrical technology or technical college and has at least
four years of practical experience on electrical work or has one year of
practical experience in planning, laying out, supervising and installing
wiring, apparatus or equipment for electrical light, heat and power beyond the
practical experience requirements for a journeyman’s license;
      (3)   An applicant for an electrical contractor’s license shall furnish
written evidence that he or she has at least six years of previous practical
experience in personally installing, altering or repairing electric wiring for
electric light, heat or power; or
      (4)   An applicant for an electrical sign contractor’s license shall
furnish written evidence that he or she has at least six years of previous
practical experience in personally installing, erecting, altering or repairing
electric service and electric equipment relating to signs. In lieu of previous
practical experience, credit may be allowed for each full-time academic year of
successful completion of a recognized trade school or accredited apprenticeship
if the majority of courses taken by the applicant were primarily directed at
education in the electrical industry.
   (C)   All applications shall be interviewed by the Electrical Commission to
determine their qualifications. Letters of reference attesting to the
applicant’s practical experience shall be received by the Commission prior to
the applicant being interviewed. Forms of written evidence shall include W-
2 tax form, income tax returns, pension report, social security reports, etc.
(1960 Code, § 24-3-4) (Ord. 7408, passed 7-6-2010; Ord. 8412-2020, passed 1-21-
2020)
§ 151.44 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   No person will be permitted to take the written examination without
being first interviewed by the Electrical Commission. A schedule of meetings
with the Electrical Commission will be provided to the applicants.
   (B)   An “application for electrical contractor license” or “application for
electrical sign contractor license” must be completed by the applicant that
includes years of experience, background, education and the like.
   (C)   Upon completion of the application, the applicant will be scheduled to
appear before the Electrical Commission to discuss his or her qualifications.
   (D)   A registration fee, per attached fee schedule, is required to be paid
to the city in order to process the application to take the written
examination.
   (E)   A separate registration fee, per attached fee schedule, is required to
be made each time the individual plans to take the examination.
   (F)   Upon approval to sit for the examination, the applicant will be given
an “examination registration form” that is required to be submitted directly to
an independent testing organization selected by the Electrical Commission with
the appropriate examination fee. This registration form must be signed by an
appropriate city official before it is mailed to the independent testing
organization.
   (G)   Applicants will receive information directly from the independent
testing organization on the specifics of the test site and location as well as
other pertinent information. Each applicant must have an admission letter that
will be presented at the test site in order to gain admittance to the
examination.
   (H)   Upon complying with the application procedures and payment of the non-
refundable examination fee, the Electrical Commission shall cause the applicant
to be examined by the independent testing organization. A minimum grade of 75%
must be attained in order to qualify for licensing as an electrical contractor.
   (I)   The independent testing organization will provide the results of the
examination to the city within approximately three to four weeks of the exam
date. The applicant will be promptly notified of their exam results.
   (J)   (1)   If the applicant receives a passing grade on the examination, he
or she will be required to seek the appropriate license from the city within
one year from date of test.
      (2)   After the Commission is satisfied the applicant has satisfied all
requirements of this subchapter, permits may be granted and work initiated.
   (K)   The Electrical Commission may waive the written examination for an
applicant for an electrical contractor's license upon proof that the applicant
has passed the written exam for the adopted or newer code year within three
years from the date of application. Verifiable proof of exam passage shall be
received directly from testing organization, in a manner acceptable to the
Electrical Commission. All other application procedures and requirements shall
be followed as outlined in this chapter.
   (L)   The Electrical Commission may waive the written examination for an
applicant for an electrical sign contractor’s license upon proof that the
applicant has at least six years of satisfactory experience of installing,
erecting, altering or maintaining electrical signs in the city before the
establishment of the requirement of an electrical sign contractor’s license by
the city.
(1960 Code, § 24-3-5) (Ord. 7408, passed 7-6-2010; Ord. 8412-2020, passed 1-21-
2020)
§ 151.45 FEES.
   (A)   The annual fee for licensing shall be as set forth by the City
Council. The Fee Commission shall notify each licensee of the annual renewal of
his or her license.
   (B)   Prior to being granted a license, the applicant shall file with the
Electrical Commission an indemnifying bond with good and sufficient sureties
and in the sum as set forth in the attached fee schedule. Such bond shall name
as the insured the city for the use and benefit of any person with whom such
applicant shall thereafter contract to do electrical work. This bond shall
indemnify any such person for damages sustained because of the failure of the
application to perform the work as contracted according to the articles and
provisions of this subchapter. Such bond shall be written by a person, firm or
corporation authorized to do business in the state and shall be approved by the
city prior to the issuance of an electrical license.
   (C)   Each holder of a license shall renew his or her license on May 1 of
each year. If a license is not timely renewed by May 1, then the holder shall
have a 60-day grace period in which to still renew such license upon payment of
the annual fee set forth in the attached fee schedule, plus an additional late
fee in that same amount. If a license is not renewed before July 1, such
license shall be deemed permanently lapsed and non-renewable, and the holder
shall be subject to re-application and re-testing under the process provided
under this subchapter.
(1960 Code, § 24-3-6) (Ord. 6354, passed 12-3-2001; Ord. 7408, passed 7-6-2010;
Ord. 7831, passed 12-16-2014)
§ 151.46 FAILURE TO PASS EXAMINATION.
   Any applicant who fails the written examination shall be required to show
proof of additional education in the electrical code prior to reapplying to
retake the examination.
(1960 Code, § 24-3-7) (Ord. 7408, passed 7-6-2010; Ord. 8412-2020, passed 1-21-
2020)
§ 151.47 RESERVED.
§ 151.48 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The Electrical Commission, after a hearing with due notice to the licensee,
may suspend or revoke the electrical contractor’s or electrical sign
contractor’s license for violation of any of the following:
   (A)   Intentional violation of any of the provisions of this Electrical Code
by any licensee;
   (B)   Misrepresentation of any material fact on the application or any
misrepresentation in obtaining the license;
   (C)   Failure to perform electrical work in a good and workmanlike manner or
performance of electrical work in a negligent manner or, if the licensee is
found to be unfit or incompetent in performing electrical work for which the
license has been issued;
   (D)   Continual, multiple, or egregious inspection violations found by the
Electrical Inspector;
   (E)   Allowing an electrical license to be used by another unauthorized
person, partnership, firm or corporation for the purpose of obtaining permits
or doing electrical work in the city;
   (F)   Allowing the designated person to whom the license was issued to serve
as a designated person for more than one person, firm, partnership or
corporation;
   (G)   Being in arrears on payment of electrical permit fees or in arrears in
payment of any of city business license fees, tax levies or other fees; and
   (H)   Failure to maintain bond.
(1960 Code, § 24-3-9) (Ord. 7408, passed 7-6-2010; Ord. 8412-2020, passed 1-21-
2020)
§ 151.49 HEARING ON SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   No electrical contractor’s or electrical sign contractor’s license shall be
suspended or revoked until the licensee has been afforded an opportunity for a
hearing before the Electrical Commission after notice of at least ten days.
Such notice shall be served either personally or by first-class mail, postage
prepaid, to licensee’s address of record and shall state the date, time and
place of hearing and set forth the charges against the licensee. The licensee
shall have the opportunity to present evidence and/or witnesses before the
Electrical Commission in person or by counsel. A verbatim recording of the
hearing shall be made and preserved as required by Illinois law. The Board
shall issue a decision in writing, within ten days of the conclusion of the
hearing. The Electrical Commission may suspend or revoke the electrical
contractor’s or electrical sign contractor’s license, in its sole discretion,
based upon the severity of the offense committed. First offense may result in a
suspension of up to 90 days which shall continue until reinstated by order of
the Board. Second offenses may result in a suspension period of up to 180 days
and shall continue until reinstated by order of the Electrical Commission.
Subsequent offenses shall result in revocation of the license for a period of
not less than one year. Serious violations may result in revocation of the
license immediately.
(1960 Code, § 24-3-10) (Ord. 7408, passed 7-6-2010; Ord. 8412-2020, passed 1-
21-2020)
CHAPTER 152: PLUMBING CODE
Section
   
152.01   Adoption of the State Plumbing Code
   
152.02   Plumber’s license
   
152.03   Plumbing Inspector
   
152.04   Registration and bonding of plumbers
   
152.05   Plumbing permits; fees
   
152.06   Inspection
   
152.07   Testing of new, altered and extended or repaired plumbing systems
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 ADOPTION OF THE STATE PLUMBING CODE.
   The Illinois State Plumbing Code, being particularly the current edition
thereof and any future updates, and the whole thereof, save and except such
portions as are hereinafter modified or amended is hereby adopted as is a part
of this ch
§ 152.02 PLUMBER’S LICENSE.
   No person shall engage in the business of plumbing in the city either as a
plumbing contractor, employing plumber or journeyman plumber, except in
compliance with the license requirement of the Plumbing License Law of the
state.
(1960 Code, § 25-1-4) (Ord. 4044, passed 2-21-1984) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03 PLUMBING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Office created. There is hereby created the Office of Plumbing
Inspector. The Mayor is authorized to appoint or discharge the Plumbing
Inspector with the consent of the City Council. No person shall be appointed
Plumbing Inspector who has not been, at the time of his or her appointment, a
licensed plumber in accordance with the state’s Plumber’s License Law.
   (B)   Oath; bond. The Plumbing Inspector, before entering upon the duties of
his or her office, shall take the oath prescribed by law for city officers and
execute a bond to the city in the penal sum of $1,000 with such sureties as the
City Council shall approve, conditioned for the faithful performance of the
duties of his or her office.
   (C)   Duties. The Plumbing Inspector is designated to administer and enforce
this chapter. The Plumbing Inspector shall sign and issue all notices, permits
and certificates required by this chapter. He or she shall pass upon and
approve all plans and surveys required by this chapter. He or she shall keep a
record of all notices issued, applications received and permits granted. He or
she shall keep a record of violations of this chapter. He or she shall inspect,
and for the purpose thereof, may enter all houses and other buildings in the
course of erection and all houses undergoing alteration or repair as often as
may be necessary to ensure conformance with the requirements of this chapter.
He or she shall compel all work on plumbing to be performed in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. He or she shall collect all fees required by
this chapter and pay them to the City Treasurer.
(1960 Code, § 25-1-5) (Ord. 3056, passed - -)
§ 152.04 REGISTRATION AND BONDING OF PLUMBERS.
   (A)   Every plumbing contractor, employing plumber and self-employed
journeyman plumber engaged in the business of plumbing in the city shall cause
his or her name, residence and place of business to be registered with the
Plumbing Inspector, along with the telephone number of said business.
   (B)   Each authorized representative must obtain written documentation of
authorization to perform work under the plumber’s bond from said plumber and a
copy of this agreement must be filed with the City Clerk prior to construction.
   (C)   Failure of the representative to obtain or file this agreement will
prevent him or her from performing work within the city limits.
(1960 Code, § 25-1-6) (Ord. 4044, passed 2-21-1984; Ord. 5924, passed 10-20-
1998)
§ 152.05 PLUMBING PERMITS; FEES.
   (A)   No plumbing work shall be undertaken prior to the issuance of a permit
by the Plumbing Inspector. Permits shall be issued only to a licensed plumber
who has registered with the city or a plumbing permit may be issued to the
owner/occupant or lessee/occupant of a single-family residence. Such person is
authorized in accordance with the state’s Plumbing License Law to install,
alter or repair the plumbing system of said single-family residence; provided
that, such plumbing shall comply with all plumbing laws, rules and regulations.
It shall be subject to such inspections as may be provided by the Plumbing
Inspector; and, provided further that, any such owner/occupant or lessee/
occupant shall not engage any person other than a plumber licensed by the city
to assist him or her in such work.
(1960 Code, § 25-1-7)
   (B)   (1)   The Plumbing Inspector shall collect all fees in advance and
shall turn all fees over to the City Treasurer and shall make a monthly report
of fees to the City Council.
      (2)   Fees for plumbing permits shall be based upon and as set forth in §
150.38 of this code of ordinances. In cases where any work for which a plumbing
permit is required has been started without the issuance of the necessary
permit, the total fees as required for the permit shall be doubled. Permit fees
are to be paid before the plumbing permit shall be issued.
      (3)   No plumbing permit shall be required and no plumbing permit fee
assessed for the direct replacement of a toilet, sink, faucet or other
appliance, except hot water heaters which require either an electrical permit
or a gas permit.
(1960 Code, § 25-1-8)
(Ord. 4044, passed 2-21-1984; Ord. 5924, passed 10-20-1998; Ord. 6507, passed
2-3-2003)
§ 152.06 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Inspection required.
      (1)   Plumbing systems, or any part thereof, shall not be enclosed,
covered up or used until after such system has been inspected and approved by
the Plumbing Inspector. It is the responsibility of the holder of the plumbing
permit to arrange for such inspection with the Plumbing Inspector at least 48
hours before such inspection is to be made. Tests shall be made by the permit
holder and observed by the Plumbing Inspector.
      (2)   Plumbing found not to be in compliance with the Plumbing Code or
otherwise defective or unsafe shall not be approved. The use of a plumbing
system that has not complied with the provisions of the Plumbing Code or found
to be defective or unsafe, shall not be approved until such time as such
plumbing system is brought into compliance with the Plumbing Code.
   (B)   Rough-in inspection. Roughed plumbing work shall not be closed in,
concealed or covered until after it has been inspected and approved by the
Plumbing Inspector.
   (C)   Final inspection. Upon completion of the plumbing work, including
setting of fixtures, the Plumbing Inspector shall inspect the plumbing system
and observe the final tests of the plumbing system to insure compliance with
the requirements of the Plumbing Code.
   (D)   Re-inspection.
      (1)   A re-inspection is mandatory whenever a plumbing system is found
not in compliance with the Plumbing Code.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the plumbing permit holder to arrange
for a re-inspection of the plumbing system by the Plumbing Inspector.
      (3)   Requests for re-inspection and payment of penalty fee shall be made
at least 48 hours before such inspection is to be made.
   (E)   Requested inspection. When an inspection is requested to determine the
conditions of existing plumbing and/or private disposal system (other than for
reasons of a health or safety hazard) a $25 fee will be charged.
(1960 Code, § 25-1-9) (Ord. 4044, passed 2-21-1984; Ord. 5643, passed 10-21-
1996)
§ 152.07 TESTING OF NEW, ALTERED AND EXTENDED OR REPAIRED PLUMBING SYSTEMS.
   (A)   General. New plumbing systems or systems which have been altered,
extended or repaired shall be tested as prescribed hereinafter to disclose
leaks and defects; except that, testing may be waived in the following cases:
      (1)   In any case which does not include addition to, replacement,
alteration or relocation of any water supply, drainage or vent piping; or
      (2)   In any case where plumbing equipment may be set up temporarily for
exhibition purposes.
   (B)   Defective plumbing. Where there is reason to believe that the plumbing
system is defective, it shall be subjected to test, inspected and any defects
found shall be corrected.
   (C)   Exposure of work. All new, altered, extended, replaced or repaired
plumbing shall be left uncovered and unconcealed until after it has been tested
and approved. When plumbing work has been covered or concealed prior to being
tested or approved, it shall be exposed for testing. It is the responsibility
of the permit holder to expose plumbing for inspection purposes.
   (D)   Equipment, material and labor tests. All equipment, material and labor
required for testing a plumbing system, or any part thereof, is the
responsibility of the permit holder.
(1960 Code, § 25-1-11) (Ord. 3538, passed - -)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who engaged in the business of plumbing as a journeyman
plumber, plumbing contractor or employing plumber in the city without having
obtained a license from the state as provided herein and/or any such person who
has not registered as provided in this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof,
be fined not less than $150, nor more than $1,000 for each time that he or she
shall engage in the business of plumbing in violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person who has not obtained the permit required by this chapter
prior to the commencement of any plumbing work shall, upon the conviction, be
fined not less than $150, nor more than $1,000, for each offense.
   (C)   Any person who fails to obey any order of the Plumbing Inspector to
correct or remove a nuisance existing by reason of unsanitary plumbing or
plumbing installed in violation of this chapter shall, upon conviction of such
offense, be fined not less than $50, nor more than $1,000 for each offense.
Each day that such nuisance shall continue to exist after the expiration of the
time fixed by the Inspector for the removal thereof constitutes a separate
offense. The court shall also order as part of the judgment that defendant
comply with all applicable codes and ordinances relating to the property which
is the subject of the violation and to abate the nuisance.
(1960 Code, § 25-1-10) (Ord. 4044, passed 2-21-1984; Ord. 5762, passed 7-21-
1997; Ord. 7098, passed 4-8-2008)
CHAPTER 153: GAS, OIL AND SOLID FUEL BURNER CODE
Section
   
153.01   Adoption of Gas, Oil and Solid Fuel Burner Code
   
153.02   Definitions in Gas, Oil and Solid Fuel Burner Code
   
153.03   Amendments to Gas, Oil and Solid Fuel Burner Code
   
153.04   Inspector
   
153.05   Registration of burner contractors
   
153.06   Application for permit
   
153.07   Fees for permits
   
153.08   Inspection
   
153.09   Cost per liter/gallon display card required
 
   
153.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: GAMA Venting Charts
§ 153.01 ADOPTION OF GAS, OIL AND SOLID FUEL BURNER CODE.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations for the installation of gas-consuming devices that
certain code known as the National Fuel Gas Code ANSI Z.223.1, NFPA-54
recommended by the American Gas Association and the National Fire Protection
Association; being particularly the 1988 edition thereof, the whole thereof and
all subsequent editions thereof, save and except such portions as are
hereinafter adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out in length herein,
and from the date on which this chapter shall take effect, the provisions
thereof shall be controlling within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   Under this Code, oil and solid fuel consuming devices shall be
installed in accordance with the manufacturers instructions for said equipment.
(1960 Code, § 27-1-1)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS IN GAS, OIL AND SOLID FUEL BURNER CODE.
   (A)   Whenever the word “municipality” is used in the Gas, Oil and Solid
Fuel Burner Code, it shall be held to mean the “City of Belleville, Illinois”.
   (B)   Whenever the term “corporation counsel” is used in the Gas, Oil and
Solid Fuel Burner Code, it shall be held to mean the Attorney for the “City of
Belleville, Illinois”.
(1960 Code, § 27-1-2)
§ 153.03 AMENDMENTS TO GAS, OIL AND SOLID FUEL BURNER CODE.
   The Gas Code known as the National Fuel Gas Code, ANSI Z223.1, NFPA 54 is
amended and changed in the following respect by section/subsection. The
manufacture instructions for the installation of oil and solid fuel consuming
devices shall not be amended.
   (A)   Part 1, General. 1.7, Definitions, add:
      The term “install” for gas and oil consuming devices shall mean,
connecting said device to an approved size and kind of fuel line. The term
“install” for solid fuel devices shall mean setting up of device and observing
all manufacturers installation instructions.
   (B)   Part 2, Gas Piping System Design, Materials and Components.
      (1)   Retain entire part; and
      (2)   2.4, Sizing of gas piping systems. Add:
         Gas fuel line shall be a minimum size of one (1) inch from the utility
connection to a point adjacent to the largest input device.
   (C)   Part 3, Gas Piping Installation.
      (1)   Retain entire part; and
      (2)   3.2, Aboveground piping outside. Add:
         On modular or mobile homes, the fuel line from the utility connection
shall be iron pipe.
   (D)   Part 4, Gas Piping Inspection, Testing and Purging. Retain entire
part.
   (E)   Part 5, Equipment Installation.
      (1)   Retain entire part;
      (2)   5.5.1 a, Connecting gas equipment. Add:
         Gas fired log starters shall be connected with iron pipe. Decorative
gas logs may be connected with type “L” copper tubing. An accessible gas shut
off valve shall be installed at the supply connection.
      (3)   5.6, Electrical. Add:
         A vent safety switch shall be installed in the draft diverter relief
opening of all natural draft gas fired heating equipment and all water heating
equipment rated at 50,000 BTU/HR input or higher. Any type of manual re-set
switch which opens at 165-180 degrees F. may be used. This switch shall be
wired in series with the control voltage circuit of the main gas valve, (12OV-
24V or Millivolt), and positioned to insure positive shutdown of main burner(s)
in the event of vent system failure. It shall be the responsibility of the
installer to verify the operation of this switch.
   (F)   Part 6, Installation of Specific Equipment.
      (1)   Retain entire part; and
      (2)   6.6.3 d, Plenums and air ducts. Add:
         Any return air duct installed with a filter access slot outside the
blower compartment shall be equipped with a filter slot cover so designed as to
permit changing the filter without the use of tools.
   (G)   Part 7, Venting of Equipment. Retain entire part.
   (H)   Part 8, Procedures to Be Followed to Place Equipment in Operation.
Retain entire part.
   (I)   Part 9, Modifications to Existing Applicant Installations for the
Purpose of Fuel Conservation. Retain entire part.
   (J)   Appendix A. Retain.
   (K)   Appendix B. Retain.
   (L)   Appendix C.   Retain.
   (M)   Appendix D. Retain.
   (N)   Appendix E. Retain.
   (O)   Appendix F. Retain.
   (P)   Appendix G.   Delete and add:
      Sizing of vent systems shall be in accordance with the 1990 Gas Appliance
Manufacturers Association (GAMA) Venting Tables for Category 1 Central
Furnaces, which are provided in this Code book.
   (Q)   Appendix H.   Retain.
   (R)   Appendix I. Retain.
   (S)   Appendix J. Retain.
   (T)   Appendix K. Retain.
(1960 Code, § 27-1-6)
§ 153.04 INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Appointment. There is hereby created the Office of Gas, Oil and Solid
Fuel Burner Inspector. He or she shall be appointed by the Mayor by and with
the consent and approval of the City Council. The Inspector shall be a person,
experienced and qualified, by schooling in the piping and handling of gas and
fuel oil fired units and handling of solid fuel burning devices.
   (B)   Oath; bond. The Gas, Oil and Solid Fuel Burner Inspector shall before
entering upon the duties of his or her office, take the oath prescribed by law
for the city officers and execute a bond to the city in the penal sum of $1,000
with such securities as the City Council shall approve, conditioned for the
faithful performance of the duties of his or her office.
   (C)   Duties. The Gas, Oil and Solid Fuel Burner Inspector is designed to
administer and enforce this chapter. The Gas, Oil and Solid Fuel Burner
Inspector shall sign and issue all notices, permits and certificates required
by this chapter. He or she shall pass upon and approve all plans and surveys
required by this chapter. He or she shall keep all records of all notices
issued, applications received and permits granted. He or she shall keep a
record of violations of this chapter. He or she shall inspect and for the
purpose thereof, may enter all houses and other buildings in the course of
erection and all houses undergoing alteration or repair as often as may be
necessary to ensure conformance with the requirements of this chapter. He or
she shall compel all work on gas, oil and solid fuel burners to be performed in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. He or she shall collect all
fees required by this chapter and pay them to the City Treasurer.
(1960 Code, § 27-1-4)
§ 153.05 REGISTRATION OF BURNER CONTRACTORS.
   (A)   Required. Every gas, oil and solid fuel burner contractor engaged in
the business of installing gas, oil and solid fuel equipment shall cause his or
her name, residence and place of business to be registered with the Gas, Oil
and Solid Fuel Burner Inspector, along with the telephone number of said
business.
   (B)   Bond. Each person required to register shall give bond to the city in
the sum of $10,000, conditioned upon a full indemnity to the city may be liable
by reason of:
      (1)   Failure of the person to observe ordinances of the city pertaining
to gas, oil and solid fuel burners;
      (2)   Failure of the person to observe all rules and regulations
established under the authority of any ordinances of the city pertaining to
gas, oil and solid fuel burners; and
      (3)   Negligence of the person or his or her employees in performing or
protecting any gas, oil and solid fuel burner work.
   (C)   Insurance. Each person or firm prior to register under this section
shall have a minimum policy of liability insurance in the amount of $500,000
and shall present proof of said insurance to the city.
   (D)   Registering.
      (1)   Each person or firm is required to register under this section are
hereby required to carry worker’s compensation insurance on his, her or their
employees and shall provide proof of said insurance to the city.
      (2)   The bond shall be renewed at intervals of two years or oftener in
the event of the impairment of the surety. The bond may be written by a surety
company or may be secured by a deposit of cash or United States government
securities in the amount of the bond and shall be filed with the City Clerk.
      (3)   No person having obtained a gas, oil and solid fuel burner bond
with the city shall allow his or her name or his or her business name to be
used by another person or company either for the purpose of obtaining permits
or for doing gas, oil and solid fuel burner work under this Code.
      (4)   Any contractor or firm already so bonded under the provisions of
the city’s Plumbing Code, § 25.06, are exempt from this provisions.
(1960 Code, § 27-1-5) (Ord. 6877, passed 6-5-2006) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.06 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to install gas, oil and solid fuel consuming
devices in the city without first making application for such permit.
Application shall be made by the owner, agent or contractor employed to install
said devices. At the time of application, the applicant shall pay the estimated
fees in advance.
   (B)   An application for the permit may be obtained either in person or by
mail from the Office of the Gas, Oil and Solid Fuel Burner Inspector.
(1960 Code, § 27-1-6) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.07 FEES FOR PERMITS.
   (A)   All fees shall be based upon and as set forth in §
150.38(M) of this chapter and on the accompanying table.
   (B)   Oil-burning devices shall use 140,000 BTU per gallon of fuel oil to
determine input.
   (C)   The fee is applicable to each unit installed.
Schedule
 Fees
Schedule
                                                      Fees
Input/BTU
   0 - 60,000                                      $10
   60,001 - 200,000                                $15
   200,001 - 500,000                               $20
   500,001 - 1,000,000                             $30
   1,000,000 and over                              $50
Solid fuel burning devices                            $10
Gas logs and log starters                             $5
Manufactured housing (per unit)                       $20
*New residential construction less than 2,000 sq. ft. $40
2,000 sq. ft. and greater                             $60
NOTES TO TABLE:
*The flat fee is for all gas and solid fuel work and installation of equipment
regardless of size, number of connections and the like. Additional inspections
over the number as required to ensure compliance with pertinent codes shall be
charged at a rate of $15 per inspection.
 
(1960 Code, § 27-1-7) (Ord. 5925, passed 10-19-1998)
§ 153.08 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Gas, oil and solid fuel devices or any part thereof shall not be
enclosed, covered up or used until after such system has been inspected and
approved by the Gas, Oil, and Solid Fuel Burner Inspector. It is the
responsibility of the holder of the gas, oil and solid fuel permit to arrange
for such inspection with the Gas, Oil and Solid Fuel Burner Inspector at least
24 hours before such inspection is to be made.
   (B)   Equipment found not to be in compliance with the Gas, Oil and Solid
Fuel Burner Code or otherwise defective or unsafe shall not be approved. The
use of such a device that has not complied with the provisions of this Code, or
found to be defective or unsafe, shall not be approved until such time as such
system is brought into compliance with said Code.
   (C)   If any equipment requires a “gas connection” or “turning on of gas”,
the Inspector shall duly- authorize same. The Inspector is hereby authorized to
terminate operation of any gas, oil or solid fuel burning equipment installed
without the permit required by this Code.
(1960 Code, § 27-1-8)
§ 153.09 COST PER LITER/GALLON DISPLAY CARD REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to dispense or sell gasoline in the city by
liters without displaying a card which shall read as follows:
 
$________ per liter equals $__________ per gallon.
3.7853 liters equals one gallon.
 
 
(1960 Code, § 27-1-10) (Ord. 4976, passed 7-20-1992) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who has not obtained a permit required by this chapter prior to
the commencement of any gas, oil and solid fuel equipment installation shall,
upon conviction, be fined not less than $50, nor more than $1,000. Any person
who fails to obey any order of the Gas, Oil and Solid Fuel Burner Inspector to
correct violations of this Code shall, upon conviction of said offense, be
fined not less than $50, nor more than $1,000, for each day that said violation
shall continue to exist after the expiration date of the time fixed by the
Inspector for correction thereof constitutes a separate ordinance violation.
The court shall also order as a part of the judgment that the defendant comply
with all applicable codes and ordinances related to any property which is the
subject of this violation.
(1960 Code, § 27-1-9) (Ord. 5764, passed 7-21-1997)
APPENDIX A: GAMA VENTING CHARTS
GAMA VENTING TABLES FOR CATEGORY I CENTRAL FURNACES
   This booklet contains new venting tables designed specifically for use with
Category I central furnaces. These tables are unique, in that, industry wide
venting tables now exist for fan-assisted combustion system central furnaces.
Venting tables for these types of appliances are not contained in the National
Fuel Gas Code (NFPA 54/ANSI Z223.1-1988).
   All requirements contained in this booklet apply to both Category I draft-
hood equipped central furnaces as well as fan-assisted combustion system
central furnaces. At no time should a venting system for a listed Category II,
III, or IV central furnace be sized with these tables. The National Fuel Gas
Code (NFPA 54/ANSI Z223.1-1988) may also be used to size venting systems for
draft-hood equipped central furnaces. However, at this time, the National Fuel
Gas Code does not include alternate sizing methods for fan-assisted combustion
systems. Therefore, until engineering data is developed to allow alternate
sizing methods for Category I fan-assisted central furnaces, the enclosed
venting tables must be used for fan-assisted combustion system central
furnaces. These tables apply to venting single appliances and common venting
multiple appliances, in chimneys other than masonry chimneys.
   The new venting tables were developed by Battelle under contract (GRI-5088-
245-1728) to the Gas Research Institute (GRI). The computer program (VENT-II)
developed by Battelle Columbus generated the venting tables in this booklet and
this procedure has been accepted by the American Gas Association Laboratories
as an appropriate engineering methodology for determining venting requirements
of Category I central furnaces.
   For your information, the general venting requirements listed in this
booklet are not intended to be used as complete installation instructions and
represent only a partial list of venting considerations.
   For venting applications that fall outside the parameters of the new venting
tables, refer to the furnace manufacturer’s complete installation instructions,
the specific vent manufacturer’s complete installation instructions and state
and local codes.
GRI DISCLAIMER
   LEGAL NOTICE: This information is, in part, a result of work performed by
Battelle under the sponsorship of the Gas Research Institute (GRI). Neither
GRI, members of GRI, nor any person acting on behalf of either:
   A.   Makes any warranty or representation, express or implied, with respect
to the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of this information, or that the
use of any apparatus, method, or process disclosed may not infringe privately
owned right; or
   B.   Assumes any liability with respect to the use of, or for damages
resulting from the use of, any information, apparatus, method, or process
disclosed.
VENTING REQUIREMENTS FOR CATEGORY I CENTRAL FURNACES
I.   INTRODUCTION. This booklet contains the current definitions, instructions,
and tables necessary to vent today’s modern Category I Gas Fired Appliance. A
variety of definitions of new terms describing today’s gas appliances are
included to supplement the actual venting tables which have been generated to
correctly vent various combinations of Category I Appliances using Type B or
single-wall metal vent connectors attached to Type B vents. Tables are also
included covering similar venting material combinations when applied to common
venting arrangements of two appliances.
   Finally, a series of examples are presented demonstrating how the vent
tables are used to size the vent connector and the vertical vent for a variety
of typical applications.
II.   DEFINITION OF TERMS.
   “Fan Assisted Combustion System”: An appliance equipped with an integral
mechanical means to either draw or force products of combustion through the
combustion chamber and/or heat exchanger.
   “FAN Min” refers to the minimum appliance input rating of a Category I
appliance with a fan-assisted combustion system that could be attached to the
vent.
   “FAN Max” refers to the maximum appliance input rating of a Category I
appliance with a fan-assisted combustion system that could be attached to the
vent.
   “NAT Max” refers to the maximum appliance input rating of a Category I
appliance equipped with a draft hood that could be attached to the vent. There
are no minimum appliance input ratings for draft-hood-equipped appliances.
   “FAN+FAN” refers to the maximum combined input rating of two fan-assisted
appliances attached to the common vent.
   “FAN+NAT” refers to the maximum combined input rating of one fan-assisted
appliance and one draft-hood-equipped appliance attached to the common vent.
   “NAT+NAT” refers to the maximum combined input rating of two draft-hood-
equipped appliances attached to the common vent.
   “NR” means not recommended due to potential for condensate formation and/or
pressurization of the venting system.
   “NA” means not applicable due to physical or geometric constraints.
   “Draft Hood”: A device built into an appliance, or made a part of the vent
connector from an appliance, which is designed to (1) provide for the ready
escape of the flue gases from the appliance in the event of no draft,
backdraft, or stoppage beyond the draft hood; (2) prevent a backdraft from
entering the appliance; and (3) neutralize the effect of stack action of the
chimney or gas vent upon the operation of the appliance.
   “Vent”: A passageway used to convey flue gases from gas utilization
equipment, or their vent connectors, to the outside atmosphere.
   “Vent Connector”: The pipe or duct which connects a fuel-gas burning
appliance to a vent or chimney.
   “Flue Collar”: That portion of an appliance designed for the attachment of a
draft hood, vent connector, or venting system.
III.   GENERAL VENTING REQUIREMENTS. All requirements contained in this
document apply to both Category I draft hood equipped and fan-assisted
combustion appliances. At no time should a venting system for a listed Category
II, III, or IV appliance be sized with these Tables. The alternate sizing
methods described in the National Fuel Gas Code (NFPA 54/ANSI Z223.1-1988) may
also be used to size the venting system for a draft hood equipped appliance. At
this time, alternate sizing methods have not been developed for fan-assisted
appliances. Therefore, until engineering data is developed to allow alternate
sizing methods for Category I fan-assisted appliances, the vent tables must be
used.
   1.   If the vent size determined from the tables is smaller than the
appliance draft hood outlet or flue collar, the smaller size may be used
provided:
      a.   The total vent height “H” is at least 10 feet.
      b.   Vents for appliance draft hood outlets or flue collars 12 inches in
diameter or smaller are not reduced more than one size (e.g. 12 inches to 10
inches is a one size reduction).
      c.   Vents for appliance draft hood or flue collars above 12 inches in
diameter are not reduced more than two sizes (e.g. 24 inches to 20 inches is a
two size reduction).
      d.   The maximum capacity listed in the tables for a fan-assisted
appliance is reduced by 10% (0.90 x maximum capacity).
      e.   The draft hood outlet is greater than 4 inches in diameter. Do not
connect a 3 inch diameter vent to a 4 inch diameter draft hood outlet. This
provision does not apply to fan-assisted appliances.
   2.   Single appliance venting configurations with zero lateral lengths.
Tables 1 & 2, are assumed to have no elbows in the vent system. For all other
vent configurations with indicated lateral lengths, the vent system is assumed
to have two 90° elbows. For each additional 90° elbow, or equivalent* beyond
two, the maximum capacity listed in the venting table should be reduced by 10
percent (0.90 x maximum listed capacity).
   3.   The common venting Tables 3 & 4 were generated using a maximum vent
connector length of one and one-half feet (18 inches) for each inch of
connector diameter as follows:
Connector Diameter (Inches) Maximum Connector Length (Feet)
Connector Diameter (Inches) Maximum Connector Length (Feet)
3                           4 1/2
4                           6
5                           7 1/2
6                           9
7                           10 1/2
8                           12
9                           13 1/2
10                          15
12                          18
14                          21
16                          24
18                          27
20                          30
22                          33
24                          36
 
   The vent connector should be routed to the vent utilizing the shortest
possible route. Longer connectors than these listed are possible but require an
increase in size, rise, or total vent height to compensate for the additional
length. Consult the appliance manufacturer for specific recommendations
concerning long vent connectors.
   4.   If vent connectors are combined prior to entering the common vent, the
maximum common vent capacity listed in the common venting tables must be
reduced by 10% (0.90 x maximum common vent capacity). See Figure 7. The length
of the common vent connector offset (L) should not exceed one and one-half feet
(18 inches) for each inch of common vent connector diameter.
   5.   If the common vertical vent is offset as shown in Figure 8, the maximum
common vent capacity listed in the common venting tables should be reduced by
20% (0.80 x maximum common vent capacity).
   6.   The flow area in the common vent should be greater than or equal to 80
percent of the sum of the flow areas of the individual vent connectors.
However, the common vent diameter must always be at least as large as the
largest vent connector diameter. All interconnection fittings must also be the
same size as the common vent.
   7.   Type B gas vents shall terminate above the roof surface with a listed
cap or a listed roof assembly in accordance with the terms of their respective
listings and the manufacturer’s instructions. See Figures 1 and 2.
   *Two 45° Elbows are equivalent to one 90° Elbow.
WIND-TESTED CAPS - (12 inches and Smaller)
Listed gas venting systems using listed vent caps 12 inches and smaller in size
may terminate in accordance with the VENT TERMINATION TABLE.
VENT CAPS LARGER THAN 12 inches
Listed vent caps larger than 12 inches must be located at least 2 feet above
the highest point and at least 2 feet higher than any portion of a building
within a horizontal distance of 10 feet
   8)   No portion of the venting system can extend into, or pass through any
circulating air duct or plenum.
   9)   All vent pipe passing through floors, walls, and ceilings must be
installed with the listed clearance to combustible materials and be fire
stopped according to local codes. In the absence of local codes, refer to NFGC.
   10)   Vent connectors serving Category I appliances shall not be connected
to any portion of mechanical draft systems operating under positive pressure
such as Category III or IV Venting Systems.
   11)   A Category I appliance must never be connected to a chimney that is
servicing a solid fuel appliance. If a fireplace chimney, lined with a metal
liner, is used to vent this appliance, the fireplace opening must be
permanently sealed.
   12)   These tables are not applicable to outside chimneys or vents unless
enclosed in a chase. A Type B vent passing through an unused masonry chimney is
considered to be an enclosed vent system and these tables may be used.
   13)   A vent connector shall be supported without any dips or sags and shall
slope a minimum of 1/4 inch per lineal foot of connector, back towards the
appliance.
   14)   When two or more vent connectors enter a common gas vent, chimney
flue, or single-wall metal pipe, the smaller connector shall enter at the
highest level consistent with the available headroom or clearance to
combustible material.
   15)   Vent connectors shall be firmly attached to draft hood outlets or flue
collars by sheet-metal screws or other approved means, except vent connectors
of listed Type B vent material which shall be assembled in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions. Joints between sections of single wall connector
piping shall be fastened by sheet-metal screws or other approved means.
   16)   When the vent connector used for Category I appliances must be located
in or pass through a crawl space or other area which may be cold, that portion
of the vent connector shall be of listed double-wall Type B vent material or
material having equivalent insulation qualities.
   17)   The entire length of a vent connector shall be readily accessible for
inspection, cleaning, and replacement.
   18)   When more than two appliances are connected to a common vent, and at
least one of the common vented appliances is a fan assisted type, the common
vent must be sized to accommodate:
      1)   The capacity of all the common vented appliances.
      2)   Have a minimum capacity lower than that of the smallest fan assisted
appliance. Minimum capacity should be determined using Tables 1 and 2.
Example 1: Single Draft-Hood-Equipped Appliance
Suppose that an installer has a 120,000 Btu/hr input appliance with a 5 inch
diameter draft hood outlet that needs to be vented into a 10 foot high Type B
vent system. What size vent should be used assuming (a) a 5-Ft lateral single-
wall metal vent connector is used with two 90° elbows, (b) a 5-Ft lateral
single-wall metal vent connector is used with three 90° elbows in the vent
system?
Solution
Table 2 should be used to solve this problem because single-wall metal vent
connectors are being used with a Type B vent: Refer to Figure 4 of Typical
Applications.
(a)   Read down the first column in Table 2 until the row associated with a 10-
Ft height and 5-Ft lateral is found. Read across this row until a vent capacity
greater than 120,000 Btu/hr is located in the shaded columns labeled “NAT Max”
for draft-hood-equipped appliances. In this case, a 5 inch diameter vent has a
capacity of 122,000 Btu/hr and may be used for this application.
(b)   If three 90° elbows are used in the vent system, then the maximum vent
capacity listed in the tables must be reduced by 10 percent (see Note 6). This
implies that the 5 inch diameter vent has an adjusted capacity of only 110,000
Btu/hr. In this case, the vent system must be increased to 6 inches in
diameter. See calculations below:
   122,000 x .90 = 110,000 for 5-inch Vent
   From Table 2 - Select 6-inch Vent
186,000 x .90 = 167,000; This is greater than the required 120,000, therefore
use a 6-inch Vent.
Example 2: Single Fan-Assisted Appliance
Suppose an installer has an 80,000 Btu/hr input fan-assisted appliance that
must be installed using 10 feet of lateral connector attached to a 30-Ft high
Type B vent. Two 90° elbows are needed for the installation. Can a single-wall
metal vent connector be used for this application?
Solution
Table 2 refers to the use of single-wall metal vent connectors with Type B
vent. In the first column find the row associated with a 30-Ft height and a 10-
Ft lateral. Read across this row, looking at the “FAN Max” columns, to find
that a 3 inch diameter single-wall metal connector vent is not recommended.
Moving to the next larger size single wall connector (4 inches) we find that a
4 inch diameter single-wall metal connector has a recommended minimum vent
capacity of 91,000 Btu/hr and a recommended maximum vent capacity of 144,000
Btu/hr. The 80,000 Btu/hr fan-assisted appliance is outside this range, so we
conclude that a single-wall metal vent connector cannot be used to vent this
appliance using 10 feet of lateral for the connector.
However, we see that if the 80,000 Btu/hr input appliance could be moved to
within 5 feet of the vertical vent, then a 4 inch single-wall metal connector
could be used to vent the appliance. Table 2 shows the acceptable range of vent
capacities for a 4 inch vent with 5 feet of lateral to be between 72,000 Btu/hr
and 157,000 Btu/hr.
If the appliance cannot be moved closer to the vertical vent, then Type B vent
could be used as the connector material. In this case, Table 1 shows that for a
30-Ft high vent with 10 feet of lateral, the acceptable range of vent
capacities for a 4 inch diameter vent attached to a fan-assisted appliance are
between 37,000 Btu/hr and 150,000 Btu/hr.
Example 3: Common Venting Two Draft-Hood Appliances
Suppose a 35,000 Btu/hr water heater is to be common vented with a 150,000 Btu/
hr furnace using a common vent with a total height of 30 feet. The connector
rise is 2 feet for the water heater and 3 feet for the furnace. Assume single-
wall metal connectors will be used with Type B vent. What size connectors and
combined vent should be used in this installation?
Solution - (Table 4 applies in this example)
Table 4 should be used to size single-wall vent connectors attached to Type B
vertical vent. In the vent connector capacity Table 4, find the row associated
with a 30-Ft vent height. For a 2-Ft rise on the vent connector for the water
heater, read the shaded columns for draft-hood-equipped appliances to find that
a 3 inch diameter vent connector has a capacity of 37,000 Btu/hr.
Therefore, a 3 inch single-wall metal vent connector may be used with the water
heater. For a draft-hood-equipped furnace with a 3-Ft rise, read across the
appropriate row to find that a 5 inch diameter vent connector has a maximum
capacity of 120,000 Btu/hr (which is too small for the furnace) and a 6 inch
diameter vent connector has a maximum vent capacity of 172,000 Btu/hr.
Therefore, a 6 inch diameter vent connector should be used with the 150,000
Btu/hr furnace.
For the capacity of the combined vent, the lower portion of Table 4 should be
used. The combined vent capacity required is 185,000 Btu/hr. Table 4 shows that
the combined vent capacity of a 6 inch diameter vent with a 30-Ft vent height
is 257,000 Btu/hr. This is more than adequate to handle the 35,000 Btu/hr input
water heater and the 150,000 Btu/hr input furnace.
Example 4: Common Venting a Draft Hood Water Heater with a Fan-Assisted Furnace
In this case, a 35,000 Btu/hr input draft-hood-equipped water heater with a 2
foot connector rise is to be common vented with a 100,000 Btu/hr fan-assisted
furnace with a 3-Ft connector rise. The common vent consists of 30-Ft rise of
Type B vent. What are the recommended vent diameters for each connector and the
common vent?
Solution - (Table 4)
Water Heater Vent Connector Diameter. Let us assume the installer would like to
use a single-wall metal vent connector. Using Table 4, Vent Connector Capacity,
read down the Total Vent Height “H” column to 30 feet and read across the 2-Ft
Connector Rise “R” row to the first Btu/hr rating in the “NAT Max” column that
is equal to or greater than the water heater input rating. The table shows that
a 3 inch vent connector has a maximum input rating of 37,000 Btu/hr. Since this
is greater than the water heater input rating, a 3 inch vent connector is
adequate. Furthermore, since the water heater is equipped with a draft hood,
there are no minimum input rating restrictions.
Furnace Vent Connector Diameter. Again, let us assume the installer would like
to use a single-wall metal vent connector. Using Table 4, Vent Connector
Capacity, read down the Total Vent Height “H” column to 30 feet and across the
3-Ft Connector Rise “R” row. Since the furnace has a fan-assisted combustion
system, find the first “FAN Max” column with a Btu/hr rating greater than the
furnace input rating. The 4 inch vent connector has a maximum input rating of
119,000 Btu/hr and a minimum input rating of 85,000 Btu/hr. The 100,000 Btu/hr
furnace in this example falls within this range, so a 4 inch connector is
adequate. If the furnace would have had an input rating of 80,000 Btu/hr, than
a Type B vent connector (see Table 4) would have to be used in order to meet
the minimum capacity limit.
Common Vent Diameter. The total input to the common vent is 135,000 Btu/hr.
Using Table 4, Common Vent Capacity, read down the Total Vent Height “H” column
to 30 feet and across this row to find the smallest vent diameter in the
“FAN+NAT” column that has a Btu/hr rating equal to or greater than 135,000 Btu/
hr. The 4 inch common vent has a capacity of 132,000 Btu/hr and the 5 inch
common vent has a capacity of 202,000 Btu/hr. Therefore, the 5 inch common vent
should be used in this example.
Summary. In this example, the installer may use a 3 inch diameter, single-wall
metal vent connector for the water heater and a 4 inch diameter, single-wall
metal vent connector for the furnace. The common vent should be a 5 inch
diameter Type B vent.
(1960 Code, Ch. 27.1)
CHAPTER 154: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   International Property Maintenance Code adopted
Certificate of Occupancy
   
154.15   Occupancy permit required
   
154.16   Application residential
   
154.17   Action on an application
   
154.18   Issuance of permit
   
154.19   Conditional permit
   
154.20   Rejection of application
   
154.21   Suspension of permit
   
154.22   Revocation of permit
   
154.23   Existing residential occupancies
   
154.24   Duty of public utilities
   
154.25   Temporary permit to owner/agent
Crime-Free Housing Program
   
154.40   Purpose
   
154.41   Crime-Free Housing Committee
   
154.42   Scope
   
154.43   Applicability
   
154.44   Notices
   
154.45   Definitions
   
154.46   Rental property registration form
   
154.47   Administrative appeals
   
154.48   Local agent required
   
154.49   Crime-free housing certification
   
154.50   Rental agreement addendum
   
154.51   U.S. comprehensive criminal search
   
154.52   U.S. comprehensive criminal search verification
   
154.53   Reporting of activity at rental units
   
154.54   Crime-free housing certificate
   
154.55   Crime-free housing certificate suspension and revocation
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED.
   The city hereby adopts the 2006 International Property Maintenance Code with
the exception of §§ 404.4 and 404.5 which are not adopted and §§ 404.4 and
404.5, which are attached to the ordinance codified herein and marked Exhibit
“A”, are adopted instead of §§ 404.4 and 404.5.
(1960 Code, § 33-1-1) (Ord. 6915, passed 9-5-2006)
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY
§ 154.15 OCCUPANCY PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, owner or agent thereof to
occupy or use, or to permit the occupancy or use of any single- or multi-family
dwelling unit for any purpose including the movement of furniture, equipment or
other personal property into said premises until a permit of occupancy has been
issued by the Code Official. The certificate so issued shall state the
occupancy complies with all of the provisions of this Code as far as can be
determined by a visual inspection of the premises and a review of the record
and shall also identify the individuals authorized to reside in said dwelling
unit.
      (2)   A permit of occupancy shall not be required for visitors to a
dwelling unit. It shall be the burden of the owner and tenant to establish that
an individual is a visitor and not residing in said dwelling unit.
      (3)   The name, date of birth and relationship of all persons residing in
the dwelling shall be listed on the occupancy permit. The owner or managing
agency of the dwelling unit along with his or her address, phone number and e-
mail address shall also be listed on the occupancy permit.
   (B)   (1)   An inspection fee of $65 shall be paid before an inspection of a
housing unit shall be conducted by the city. If the housing unit fails
inspection after one reinspection, or if any applicant fails to appear for a
scheduled appointment for inspection, a reinspection fee of $65 shall be paid
before each additional reinspection of a housing unit by the city. It shall be
the responsibility of the property owner/agent to make advance payment of any
fee and schedule any required inspection with the city. An additional $10 fee
will be assessed for each inspection or reinspection conducted outside of
normal city business hours.
      (2)   A fee of $55 shall be charged for each request for a certificate of
occupancy. The permit shall be obtained by the tenant/occupant and must be
secured before the unit can be legally occupied. If an inspection is required
the fee must be paid before an occupancy permit can be issued.
(1960 Code, § 33-2-1) (Ord. 6847, passed 3-20-2006; Ord. 7667, passed 2-19-
2013; Ord. 8181-2018, passed 3-19-2018; Ord. 9031-2022, passed 2-22-2022)
Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.16 APPLICATION RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   The person making application for an occupancy permit for a dwelling
unit shall identify the individuals who will occupy the dwelling unit and their
relationships. It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly make any false
statement on an application for an occupancy permit for a dwelling unit as to
the names, relationships or number of occupants who will occupy the dwelling
unit.
   (B)   After an occupancy permit has been issued, it shall thereafter be
unlawful for the owner to change or allow a change of occupancy with or without
change of ownership of the dwelling unit without the owner obtaining a new
occupancy permit prior to the change of occupancy which lists the new
occupants. A CHANGE IN OCCUPANCY shall mean a change in possession of a
dwelling unit by way of rental, leasehold, ownership or other manner of
tenancy.
(1960 Code, § 33-2-2) (Ord. 7667, passed 2-19-2013) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.17 ACTION ON AN APPLICATION.
   The Code Official shall examine, or cause to be examined, all applications
for permits within a reasonable time after filing. He or she shall cause the
premises to be inspected within 15 working days after filing. If premises are
not inspected within the 15 working days, then the permit and certificate of
compliance shall be automatically issued without an inspection. If the premises
are not in compliance with this Code and all laws and ordinances applicable
thereto, the Code Official shall provide the applicant with a list of defects
that are not in compliance. Said defects shall be listed with as much
specificity as possible. The owner or occupant of every dwelling unit and its
premises shall give the Code Official free access thereto, at all reasonable
times, for the purpose of such inspection. An inspection shall be valid for a
period of one year. The dwelling unit does not have to be reinspected during
the year, even if the occupancy changes. A reinspection shall be made within 15
working days after a written request for reinspection has been made to the Code
Official. If the premises are not reinspected within the 15 working days, from
receipt of the written request, then the permit and certificate of compliance
shall be automatically issued without a reinspection. If specific defects are
found in the original inspection, the Code Official shall not require
additional defects to be corrected that were discovered on a reinspection
unless the new defects occurred after the original inspection. There shall be a
fee of $50 for every reinspection after the first reinspection. No inspection
shall be required under this subchapter for a dwelling unit that is less than
five years of age.
(1960 Code, § 33-2-3) (Ord. 6426, passed 5-20-2002)
§ 154.18 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   If all the fees are paid and the Code Official is satisfied that the
premises and its occupancy are in compliance with this Code and all laws and
ordinances applicable thereto, the Code Official shall issue the occupancy
permit as soon as practicable. The only individuals authorized to reside in a
dwelling unit shall be the individuals listed on the occupancy permit.
(1960 Code, § 33-2-4) (Ord. 7667, passed 2-19-2013)
§ 154.19 CONDITIONAL PERMIT.
   Occupancy shall be permitted on a conditional basis when, in the judgment of
the Code Official, practical difficulties interfere with completing all repairs
required to bring the premises into full compliance with this Code prior to
permitting occupancy. However, no conditional permit shall be issued when there
is a condition on the premises which can threaten the health or safety of an
occupant. No conditional permit shall be issued under the provisions of this
Code for premises which have been newly constructed, newly altered or on which
a change in use is proposed unless a certificate of use and occupancy has first
been issued under the provisions of the Building Code.
(1960 Code, § 33-2-5)
§ 154.20 REJECTION OF APPLICATION.
   If the application does not comply with the requirements of all pertinent
laws, the Code Officials shall reject such application in writing, stating the
reasons therefor. Furthermore, Code Officials may reject an application or deny
an occupancy permit in such case when an applicant or person applying for an
occupancy permit has failed to pay liens, sewer debts, trash collection fees or
any other fees which are due to the city.
(1960 Code, § 33-2-6) (Ord. 5464, passed 9-5-1995)
§ 154.21 SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   Any permit issued shall become invalid if the occupancy is not commenced
within six months after issuance of the permit or if the occupancy is
terminated.
(1960 Code, § 33-2-7)
§ 154.22 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Code Official may revoke a permit in any case of false statement or
misrepresentation of facts in the application on which a permit was based, or
in the event a structure or part thereof is condemned pursuant to this Code.
Additionally, the Code Official may revoke a permit if trash or sewer bills are
unpaid for a 60-day period. Further, the Code Official may refuse to issue an
occupancy permit pursuant to this subchapter if sewer or trash bills are unpaid
at the time of application.
(1960 Code, § 33-2-8) (Ord. 5656, passed 12-2-1996)
§ 154.23 EXISTING RESIDENTIAL OCCUPANCIES.
   The provisions of §
154.15 of this chapter shall not apply to any residential occupancy in
existence at the time this Code takes effect, unless there is a change in the
occupancy of any person after said date.
(1960 Code, § 33-2-9)
§ 154.24 DUTY OF PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   (A)   Every person or persons, firm or corporation or other business entity,
whether public or private, that sells or supplies utility services within the
city limits, including, but not limited to, water, electricity or gas, but
excepting telephone service, shall not commence such service, nor initiate
providing such service, to any dwelling, or to any portion thereof, to any
person or party unless the person or party intending to occupy same has
presented to the said utility supplier or provider an occupancy permit or
temporary permit to owner/agent wherein the signature of the appropriate city
official is affixed thereto and his or her seal is imprinted thereon.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any occupancy wherein the occupant is
seeking restoration of utility service subsequent to a discontinuance or
disconnection of same or where the occupant is seeking additional services at
the same dwelling.
(1960 Code, § 33-2-10) (Ord. 5704, passed 3-17-1997) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.25 TEMPORARY PERMIT TO OWNER/AGENT.
   (A)   If an owner or agent has not entered into a separate agreement with
the public utility referred to in §
154.24 of this chapter, a temporary permit may be issued to an owner or agent
to allow the owner/agent to start or continue utility service to any single or
multi-family unit for the purpose of protecting an unoccupied unit from the
elements or to allow the owner/agent to show the premises after the previous
occupant has moved out. In addition, the owner/agent who is issued a temporary
permit may perform cleaning, repairing and maintenance services to the
premises. The temporary permit shall require the owner/agent to place all
utilities in the owner/agent’s name and assume financial responsibility for all
such utilities. The temporary permit shall not authorize any person to occupy
the premises.
   (B)   A temporary permit may be revoked as provided in §
154.22 of this chapter and applications for temporary permits may be rejected
by the Code Official as set forth in §
154.20 of this chapter.
   (C)   A temporary permit shall expire upon the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy for the premises.
   (D)   The Code Official responsible for enforcement of certificates of
occupancy may promulgate such rules, regulations and procedures as he or she
deems necessary to implement this section.
(1960 Code, § 33-2-11) (Ord. 5704, passed 12-2-1996)
CRIME-FREE HOUSING PROGRAM
§ 154.40 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The goal of the city’s Crime-Free Housing Program is to increase the
quality of life of residents by partnering the city with owners, landlords and
managing agents to decrease the incidence of public safety violations and
criminal activity in rental properties.
   (B)   This program will collect current and accurate information identifying
existing rental properties, owners, landlords and managing agents in the city.
This information shall be used by the Director of Health, Housing, and Building
Department, Police Department and Fire Department to perform their respective
duties.
   (C)   It is the intent of this subchapter and it shall not be construed or
enforced in any manner which would affect the tenancy of a tenant whose only
involvement in an incident has been as the victim of a crime.
(1960 Code, § 3-3-1) (Ord. 7715, passed 9-16-2013; Ord. 8071-2017, passed 7-17-
2017; Ord. 8433-2020, passed 3-2-2020; Ord. 8998-2021, passed 11-1-2021)
§ 154.41 CRIME-FREE HOUSING COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The Crime-Free Housing Committee is established to evaluate and
respond to concerns brought forward by the public, police, residents and
tenants.
   (B)   (1)   The Mayor shall appoint the members of the Crime-Free Housing
Committee and it shall consist of two owner-occupied homeowners, two landlords,
two tenants, two City Council members, one licensed real estate professional
and one property manager; no two members shall be from the same company or
entity.
      (2)   The Director of Health, Housing, and Building Department and Crime-
Free Housing Enforcement Officers shall attend each meeting.
      (3)   The Committee shall meet at a minimum of two times per year at
least six months apart or more often as needed to review progress and address
concerns brought forth by interested parties.
      (4)   At each meeting, the Committees shall be given the most current
crime statistics and an accounting of all funds received and expended pursuant
to this subchapter.
(1960 Code, § 3-3-2) (Ord. 7715, passed 9-16-2013; Ord. 8071-2017, passed 7-17-
2017; Ord. 8433-2020, passed 3-2-2020; Ord. 8998-2021, passed 11-1-2021)
§ 154.42 SCOPE.
   This subchapter shall apply to every building or portion thereof rented as
residential rental units located within the corporate limits of the city, as
its corporate limits are now or hereafter altered, without regard to the zoning
classification of the property, excepting the following:
   (A)   Nursing homes, as defined in
Ch. 162 of this code of ordinances;
   (B)   Hotels and motels, as defined in
Ch. 162 of this code of ordinances;
   (C)   Public housing, owned by a governmental agency; and
   (D)   Dormitories and other housing units owned or managed by a public or
private educational institution such as a college or school.
(1960 Code, § 3-3-3) (Ord. 7715, passed 9-16-2013; Ord. 8071-2017, passed 7-17-
2017)
§ 154.43 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to all owners, landlords and managing agents of
residential rental property located within the corporate limits of the city, as
its corporate limits are now or hereafter altered, without regard to the zoning
classification of the property.
(1960 Code, § 3-3-4) (Ord. 7715, passed 9-16-2013; Ord. 8071-2017, passed 7-17-
2017)
§ 154.44 NOTICES.
   Any written notice required to be given to the owner of a rental unit under
this subchapter shall be addressed to such owner, landlord and/or managing
agent, as applicable, at the address(es) on the rental property registration
form.
(1960 Code, § 3-3-5) (Ord. 7715, passed 9-16-2013; Ord. 8071-2017, passed 7-17-
2017)
§ 154.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief Law Enforcement Officer of the Department of
Police of the city, or his or her designee, responsible for law enforcement and
the investigation of complaints of violations with the provisions of this
subchapter to ensure compliance with this subchapter.
   CITY. The City of Belleville, Illinois, or, as appropriate, its employees,
officers, agents, consultants or contractors acting under and within the scope
of authority of the city to carry out and enforce the provisions of this
subchapter.
   CERTIFICATE. Crime-free housing certification certificate.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Health, Housing, and Building Department, or his
or her authorized designee.
   DUPLEX. A building with two rental units.
   LANDLORD. The same as MANAGING AGENT.
   MANAGING AGENT. One or more persons or business entities that have charge,
care or control of a building in whole, or part thereof, in which rental units
are maintained. MANAGING AGENTS are contractors of the owner, and can act on
behalf of the owner as per the stipulations of their contract. If a MANAGING
AGENT is appointed by an owner, the city will first contact the managing agent
and then the owner regarding any issues or violations requiring attention.
   MULTI-FAMILY BUILDING. A structure that contains three or more rental units.
   OCCUPANT(S). The legal resident, or tenant, of a rental unit who enjoys the
exclusive use of the rental unit as stipulated in the rental agreement.
   ORGANIZATION. Includes a corporation, trust, estate, partnership,
association or any other legal or commercial entity. The term shall not include
a lessee who previously occupied a rental unit and who is subleasing the unit
for the remaining part of his or her lease.
   OWNER. One or more persons, jointly, severally or in common, or any
organization, in whom is vested all or part of the legal title to property, or
all or part of the beneficial ownership and a right to present use and
enjoyment of the premises, including a mortgagee in possession.
   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE. The International Property Maintenance Code as
adopted by the city, as amended.
   RENT. Any payment made to or any consideration given to an owner, landlord
or local agent pursuant to a rental agreement.
   RENTAL AGREEMENT. All agreements, written or oral, concerning the right to
use or occupy a rental unit for a specified period of time. It shall also
include subleases.
   RENTAL PROPERTY. A structure with one or more residential units, which are
leased for occupancy and/or the subject of a contract-for-deed/bond-for-deed or
other similar agreement, whether recorded or unrecorded. However, it does not
include property excluded under §
154.42 of this chapter.
   RENTAL UNIT. One or more rooms in a structure arranged, designed and used as
a residence of living quarters by one or more persons who are not its owner(s),
and contained within a rental property as defined herein. It includes single-
family, multi-family, boarding house, duplexes, lodging house, mobile homes and
trailers.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A residential structure with one rental unit.
   TENANT. The same as OCCUPANT(S).
(1960 Code, § 3-3-6) (Ord. 7715, passed 9-16-2013; Ord. 8071-2017, passed 7-17-
2017; Ord. 8433-2020, passed 3-2-2020; Ord. 8998-2021, passed 11-1-2021; Ord.
9041-2022, passed 5-2-2022)
§ 154.46 RENTAL PROPERTY REGISTRATION FORM.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, landlord or managing agent, as
defined herein, to lease or operate a rental property without first registering
it with the Director of Health, Housing, and Building Department and complying
with the provisions of this subchapter, together with other applicable codes
and ordinances of the city.
   (B)   (1)   Within 30 days of any change of ownership of a rental property,
the new owner shall re-register the property as such by completing the rental
property registration form.
      (2)   A change of ownership shall include any change in ownership rights,
including execution of a contract for deed, whether recorded or not.
   (C)   The registration of rental property(ies) shall expire on November 1 of
each year, and must be renewed by October 31 of each year. The annual
registration fee shall be $30 per rental unit; provided, however, that such
annual registration fee shall increase to $60 per unit if not paid in full by
November 15th.
   (D)   No owner shall be allowed to register any property if the owner has
outstanding fees, fines, liens or judgments due and owing to the city.
   (E)   Registration may be denied by the city as provided in this subchapter.
If registration is denied or revoked, the city shall notify the owner, landlord
or managing agent as applicable, in writing, of the denial and the reasons
therefor, and provide an opportunity to appeal the decision pursuant to this
subchapter.
   (F)   Registration, or renewal thereof, shall not be allowed if the owner
fails to comply with this and/or all other applicable city ordinances.
(Ord. 8172-2018, passed 2-20-2018; Ord. 8238-2018, passed 8-20-2018; Ord. 8371-
2019, passed 9-17-2019; Ord. 8433-2020, passed 3-2-2020; Ord. 8998-2021, passed
11-1-2021) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.47 ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS.
   An owner, landlord or managing agent may appeal a registration denial to the
Mayor’s office within ten days of the date of written notice to such owner,
landlord or managing agent, of the denial of registration. The appeal must be
in writing and state the reasons the owner, landlord or managing agent
disagrees with the determination to deny registration. A hearing on the appeal
in accordance with the provisions of §
154.56 of this chapter shall be conducted by the Hearing Officer appointed
hereunder. The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Council, shall appoint
as Hearing Officer an attorney licensed in the state to conduct all hearings
hereunder.
(1960 Code, § 3-3-8) (Ord. 7715, passed 9-16-2013; Ord. 8071-2017, passed 7-17-
2017)
§ 154.48 LOCAL AGENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner, owner designee, local landlord or managing agent of any
rental unit covered by this subchapter shall be available to respond to a non-
emergency situation if requested within 8 hours. If an exigent response is
required, as determined by the Police Department, the owner, owner designee,
local landlord or managing agent of any rental unit covered by this subchapter
shall be available to respond within two hours.
   (B)   This requirement may be met by maintaining an operating business or
owner residence within 50 miles of the city, or by use of a local landlord or
managing agent who resides within 50 miles of the city, either of whom can be
contacted on a 24-hour basis.
   (C)   If a local landlord or managing agent is used, the owner shall
identify the landlord or managing agent on the rental property registration
form. Within seven days of any change of landlord or managing agent of a rental
property, the owner shall re-register the property as such by completing the
rental property registration form.
   (D)   A post office box, e-mail address, mailing address or long-distance
toll free (e.g., 800 numbers) shall not be deemed sufficient to meet the
provisions of this section.
(1960 Code, § 3-3-10) (Ord. 7715, passed 9-16-2013; Ord. 8071-2017, passed 7-
17-2017; Ord. 8371-2019, passed 9-17-2019)
§ 154.49 CRIME-FREE HOUSING CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   All owners, landlords and/or managing agent must complete the city
training program or have been certified by another municipality’s crime-free
housing program.
   (B)   The city training program will consist of the following items:
      (1)   Crime-free housing overview;
      (2)   Applicant screening - protected classes;
      (3)   Crime-free lease addendum/ordinance and community rules;
      (4)   Rental law - resources for eviction and other legal information;
      (5)   Criminal behavior and crime prevention;
      (6)   Crime prevention through environmental designs - target hardening;
and
      (7)   Rental incident forms and reporting procedures.
(1960 Code, § 3-3-11) (Ord. 7715, passed 9-16-2013; Ord. 8071-2017, passed 7-
17-2017)
§ 154.50 RENTAL AGREEMENT ADDENDUM.
   (A)   (1)   An owner, landlord and/or managing agent must be cognizant of
the public health, safety and welfare of the neighborhood and its citizens.
      (2)   In order to preserve this trust, the owner, landlord and/or
managing agent must have all available information regarding a prospective
tenant’s criminal activity prior to making a decision to rent to the
prospective tenant.
      (3)   Therefore, all owners, landlords and/or managing agents shall
conduct a U.S. comprehensive criminal search prior to executing a rental
agreement.
      (4)   A signed copy of the U.S. comprehensive criminal search
verification and a signed copy of the crime-free rental agreement addendum must
accompany the rental agreement when the tenant obtains the occupancy permit.
The addendum and verification form will be kept on file at the city’s
Residential and Commercial Development Services Office.
      (5)   The U.S. comprehensive criminal search verification form below and
the crime-free rental agreement addendum form below will be available for the
owner, landlord, and/or managing agent’s use at the city’s Residential and
Commercial Development Services Office or on its website.
(1960 Code, § 3-3-12)
   (B)   (1)   The tenant acknowledges that the city has enacted a crime-free
housing ordinance, and in addition to all other terms of the rental agreement,
owner/landlord/managing agent and tenant agree as follows. The tenant, any
occupant or member of the tenant’s household, any guest or any other person or
persons associated with the tenant or his or her household, at the leased
premises (rental unit), common areas or appurtenances:
         (a)   Shall not commit any act or omission that would constitute a
felony or a Class A misdemeanor under state law;
         (b)   Shall not engage in any act intended to facilitate the
commission of any act or omission that would constitute a felony or a Class A
misdemeanor under state law;
         (c)   Shall not use or permit the use of the leased premises (rental
unit) for the commission of any act that would constitute a felony or a Class A
misdemeanor under state law; and/or
         (d)   Shall comply with all statutes, ordinances and requirements of
all municipal, state and federal authorities now in force, or which may
hereafter be in force, pertaining to the leased premises (rental unit) which is
the responsibility of the tenant or relate to the conduct of the tenant.
      (2)   Any violation of the above provisions shall be a material and
irreparable violation of the rental agreement and good cause for immediate
termination of tenancy and recovery of the leased premises (rental unit).
Unless otherwise provided by law, proof of a violation shall be established by
a preponderance of the evidence.
      (3)   In case of conflict between the provisions hereof and any other
provisions of the rental agreement, the provisions of this addendum shall
govern to the extent permitted by applicable law.
      (4)   This addendum is incorporated into the rental agreement executed or
renewed this day between the owner/landlord/managing agent and the tenant.
      (5)   The addendum must include the address of the rental unit. It must
also be signed and dated by the owner/landlord/managing agent and all tenants/
occupants of age 18 or older.
(1960 Code, § 3-3-15)
(Ord. 7715, passed 9-16-2013; Ord. 8071-2017, passed 7-17-2017 ;Ord. 8371-2019,
passed 9-17-2019; Ord. 8433-2020, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 154.51 U.S. COMPREHENSIVE CRIMINAL SEARCH.
   (A)   All owners/landlords/managing agents shall:
      (1)   Conduct a U.S. comprehensive criminal search on all prospective
tenants and occupants age 18 and over prior to executing a lease or rental
agreement. The search must go back at least seven years including all known
addresses, and must also check nationally recognized sex offender registration
websites. The owner, landlord or managing agent may conduct this search, or may
have a reputable agency conduct this search, at his, her or its own expense. A
fee may be incurred; and
      (2)   Conduct a U.S. comprehensive criminal search on all persons/
occupants age 18 and over prior to allowing the person(s)/occupant(s) to be
added to the occupancy permit. The search must go back at least seven years
including all known addresses, and must also check nationally recognized sex
offender registration websites. The owner, landlord or managing agent may
conduct this search, or may have a reputable agency conduct this search, at
his, her or its own expense. A fee may be incurred.
   (B)   The owner/landlord/managing agent is required to maintain the U.S.
comprehensive criminal search(es) on file as long as the tenant occupies the
unit.
(1960 Code, § 3-3-13) (Ord. 7715, passed 9-16-2013; Ord. 8071-2017, passed 7-
17-2017)
§ 154.52 U.S. COMPREHENSIVE CRIMINAL SEARCH VERIFICATION.
   (A)   All owners, landlords and/or managing agents shall complete and submit
a U.S. comprehensive criminal search verification form provided by the Health
and Housing Department along with the lease or rental agreement when the tenant
obtains the occupancy permit. This form must also be completed and submitted
before permission will be granted to add a person to the occupancy permit.
   (B)   This form shall include the following:
      (1)   A thorough U.S. comprehensive criminal search for the past seven
years including all known addresses, and including nationally recognized sex
offender registration websites has been conducted by (name of company/
individual performing search) on (date) on the following persons who will
reside at (address):
         (a)   Name, birthdate;
         (b)   Name, birthdate; and
         (c)   Name, birthdate.
      (2)   The quotation: “In compliance with §
154.53 of the city code of ordinances, I have reviewed all U.S. Comprehensive
Criminal Searches of all individuals eighteen (18) years of age and older prior
to executing the Rental Agreement”;
      (3)   Signature of owner/landlord/managing agent; and
      (4)   Title of owner/landlord/managing agent.
(1960 Code, § 3-3-14) (Ord. 7715, passed 9-16-2013; Ord. 8071-2017, passed 7-
17-2017; Ord. 8371-2019, passed 9-17-2019; Ord. 8433-2020, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 154.53 REPORTING OF ACTIVITY AT RENTAL UNITS.
   A rental incident form (RIF) may be created by the responding police officer
on a call to a rental unit related to disturbances or criminal activity at or
near that rental unit.
(1960 Code, § 3-3-16) (Ord. 7715, passed 9-16-2013; Ord. 8071-2017, passed 7-
17-2017)
§ 154.54 CRIME-FREE HOUSING CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   All owners, landlords or managing agents of any rental property
located within the city shall first qualify for and possess a current and valid
crime-free housing certificate. The certificate shall be specific to the
individual and shall not be transferable.
   (B)   No owner, landlord or managing agent shall qualify for a crime-free
housing certificate unless the applicant first documents to the Director of
Residential and Commercial Development Services:
      (1)   The owner, landlord or managing agent has attended and successfully
completed a seminar, conducted or authorized by the Director of Residential and
Commercial Development Services for owners, landlords and managing agents; and
      (2)   The owner, landlord or managing agent has satisfied and paid all
fees, fines, judgments and liens in favor of the city and against the licensed
or proposed licensed owner, landlord or managing agent or the rental property.
(1960 Code, § 3-3-17) (Ord. 7715, passed 9-16-2013; Ord. 8071-2017, passed 7-
17-2017; Ord. 8433-2020, passed 3-2-2020)
§ 154.55 CRIME-FREE HOUSING CERTIFICATE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any owner, landlord or
managing agent of a rental unit to:
      (1)   Fail to take prompt, diligent and lawful steps to remove the tenant
from possession of the rental unit:
         (a)   Following notice of the commission of a felony or a Class A
misdemeanor in the rental unit where allowed or permitted by tenant;
         (b)   Following notice of four ordinance violations committed within
any six-month period in the rental unit, or in common areas related to the
rental unit, where allowed or permitted by tenant; or
         (c)   Following notice of other violation of the crime-free rental
agreement addendum, as now or as hereafter amended, where violation of that
addendum expressly constitutes good cause for termination of the rental
agreement.
      (2)   Fail to pay and satisfy any fee, fine, judgment or lien in favor of
the city and against the licensed owner, landlord or managing agent, or the
rental property.
   (B)   The Director of Residential and Commercial Development Services shall
provide notice to the owner, landlord or managing agent that a complaint has
been filed with the Hearing Officer appointed hereunder. The Hearing Officer
shall conduct a hearing to suspend or revoke the crime-free housing certificate
of any owner, landlord or managing agent where, after notice and hearing, the
Hearing Officer shall make findings determining:
      (1)   Whether any act or omission that would constitute a felony or a
Class A misdemeanor under state law was committed on the leased premises
(rental unit) or on common areas related to the licensed premises (rental
unit);
      (2)   Whether four or more violations of city ordinances were committed
within any six-month period within the leased premises (rental unit), or on
common areas related to the leased premises (rental unit);
      (3)   Whether the certified owner, landlord or managing agent failed to
take prompt, diligent and lawful steps to remove the tenant from possession of
the leased premises (rental unit):
         (a)   Following notice of the commission of a felony or a Class A
misdemeanor in the leased premises (rental unit) where committed, allowed or
permitted by tenant; or
         (b)   Following notice of four ordinance violations committed within
any six-month period in the leased premises (rental unit), or in common areas
related to the leased premises (rental unit), where committed, allowed or
permitted by tenant; or
         (c)   Following notice of other violation of the crime-free rental
agreement addendum, as now or as hereafter amended, where violation of that
addendum expressly constitutes good cause for termination of the rental
agreement.
      (4)   Whether the owner, landlord or managing agent failed to pay and
satisfy any fee, fine, judgment or lien in favor of the city and against the
licensed owner, landlord or managing agent, or the rental property.
   (C)   The city and the owner, landlord or managing agent shall be given 14
days’ notice of any hearing under this section for the suspension or revocation
of a crime-free housing certificate, and the city and the owner, landlord or
managing agent shall be given an opportunity to present relevant evidence. If
the hearing on suspension or revocation of a crime-free housing certificate is
to be based on the conduct of a tenant or the conduct in a tenant’s rental
unit, the tenant shall also be given 14 days’ notice of any hearing under this
section and shall also be given an opportunity to be heard. The Hearing Officer
shall have the power to administer oaths and require the attendance of any city
employees. The hearing shall be recorded. Upon consideration of the evidence
presented at hearing, the Hearing Officer shall make written findings of fact
and issue a written decision, which shall be promptly mailed to the city and
the owner, landlord or managing agent as applicable. The affirmative defense
provided in 75 ILCS 5/9-106.2 shall be available to the owner, landlord,
managing agent or tenant at any hearing held hereunder.
   (D)   If at the hearing held hereunder, the Hearing Officer finds a
violation of this subchapter, the Hearing Officer shall be authorized to order
as to the owner, landlord or managing agent, one or more of the following:
      (1)   Retraining and successful completion of a crime-free housing
seminar, conducted or authorized by the Director of Residential and Commercial
Development Services within a specified time frame to be determined by the
Hearing Officer;
      (2)   Suspension of the owner, landlord, or managing agent’s crime-free
housing certificate for up to 90 days or 60 days after completion of corrective
action, during which time the owner, landlord or managing agent will be unable
to issue any new rental agreements;
      (3)   Revocation of the owner, landlord or managing agent’s crime-free
housing certificate. Notwithstanding any contrary provision herein, the owner,
landlord or managing agent may invoke at hearing an affirmative defense set
forth in § 9-106.2 of the Illinois Code of Civil Procedure (735 ILCS 5/9-106.2)
that, if proven by a preponderance of the evidence, shall avoid the requirement
to remove the tenant from the leased premises (rental unit) for any initial
incident involving domestic violence or sexual violence at the leased premises
(rental unit), provided that the owner, landlord or managing agent must have
barred the perpetrator of such domestic violence or sexual violence in
accordance with applicable subsections (f) and/or (g) thereof.
(1960 Code, § 3-3-18) (Ord. 7715, passed 9-16-2013; Ord. 8071-2017, passed 7-
17-2017; Ord. 8433-2020, passed 3-2-2020) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this Code of Ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who is an occupant of the premises violating any provision
of the Property Maintenance Code (§§
154.15 through
154.25 of this chapter) or any part thereof shall be fined in an amount not
less than $100, nor more than $1,000. Any person who is an owner of property
violating any provision of §§
154.15 through
154.25 of this chapter shall be fined in an amount not less than $250, nor more
than $1,000. The minimum fine for an owner for a second offense shall be $500,
for the third offense shall be $750 and for the fourth offense shall be $1,000.
Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute
a separate offense and shall be punishable as such. The court shall also order,
as part of the judgment, that the defendant comply with all applicable codes
and ordinances relating to the property which is the subject of the violation.
   (C)   Violations of §§
154.40 through
154.56 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $250 for
the first violation or $500 for the second and all subsequent violations. Fines
shall not exceed $500 for any violation. Each day shall constitute a separate
and continuing violation. The city may seek remedies which include corrective
action, prohibitions or revocations as a part of its relief.
(1960 Code, § 33-3-19)
(Ord. 7101, passed 4-8-2008; Ord. 7715, passed 9-16-2013; Ord. 8071-2017,
passed 7-17-2017; Ord. 8237-2018, passed 8-20-2018)
CHAPTER 155: SIGN CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Purpose and intent
   
155.002   Definitions
   
155.003   General prohibition
   
155.004   Graphic area allowance
   
155.005   Illumination
   
155.006   Movement prohibited
   
155.007   Structural and maintenance requirements
   
155.008   Obstructions prohibited
   
155.009   Graphics not to constitute traffic hazards
   
155.010   Other prohibited graphics
   
155.011   Exempted graphics
Certain Types of Graphics; Regulations
   
155.025   Scope
   
155.026   Flush-mounted graphics
   
155.027   Projecting graphics
   
155.028   Free-standing graphics
   
155.029   Window graphics
   
155.030   Awning, canopy and marquee graphics
   
155.031   Roof-mounted graphics
   
155.032   Billboards
   
155.033   Street banners
Graphics Controls Based on Type of Establishment or Zoning District
   
155.045   Scope and applicability
   
155.046   Interpretation
   
155.047   A-1 District regulations
   
155.048   A-2, B-1 District regulations
   
155.049   C-1, C-2 District regulations
   
155.050   Rationale for downtown area of special control
   
155.051   Designation as area of special control
   
155.052   Special graphics regulations in downtown area
   
155.053   Criteria for determining compatibility
Administration
   
155.065   Enforcement
   
155.066   Inspection
   
155.067   Registration of existing street graphics
   
155.068   Permit required
   
155.069   Application for permit
   
155.070   Issuance of permits
   
155.071   Permit fees
   
155.072   Information to be placed on graphic
   
155.073   Non-conforming street graphics
   
155.074   Discontinuance of non-conforming street graphics
   
155.075   Unsafe or unlawful street graphics
   
155.076   Removal by city, reimbursement for costs
   
155.077   Disclaimer of administrative liability
Graphics Review Board; Appeals
   
155.090   Creation of Graphics Review Board
   
155.091   Board meetings
   
155.092   Variances
   
155.093   Application
   
155.094   Fee
   
155.095   Public hearing notice
   
155.096   Advisory report
   
155.097   Criteria for variance determination
   
155.098   Decision by City Council
   
155.099   Appeals
 
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose and intent of this chapter is to establish comprehensive
regulations for the control of street graphics in order to preserve, protect
and promote the public health, safety and welfare; to eliminate pedestrian and
vehicular traffic hazards; and to enhance the economic vitality and aesthetic
appeal of the community.
   (B)   More specifically, this chapter is intended to assist in achieving the
following objectives:
      (1)   To authorize the use of street graphics which are:
         (a)   Compatible with their surroundings and zoning district in which
they are located;
         (b)   Expressive of the image this community is striving to project;
         (c)   Appropriate to the type of establishment or activity to which
they pertain; and
         (d)   Legible in the circumstances in which they are seen.
      (2)   To foster high quality commercial and industrial development, and
to enhance the economic vitality of the existing businesses and industries by
promoting the reasonable, orderly and effective display of street graphics;
      (3)   To enhance the physical appearance of the city by preserving the
scenic and natural beauty of the area;
      (4)   To protect the general public from damage and injury which may be
caused by the faulty and uncontrolled construction and use of street graphics
within the city;
      (5)   To protect pedestrians and motorists from damage or injury caused
by the distractions, obstructions and hazards created by certain street
graphics;
      (6)   To protect the public investment in streets and highways by
reducing distractions which may increase traffic accidents;
      (7)   To preserve the value of private property by assuring the
compatibility of street graphics with surrounding land uses;
      (8)   To encourage sound practices and lessen the objectionable effects
of competition in respect to the size and placement of street graphics; and
      (9)   To protect the physical and mental well-being of the general public
by recognizing and encouraging a sense of aesthetic appreciation for the visual
environment.
(1960 Code, § 53-1-1) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977)
§ 155.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADJACENT. As applied to real property, having a common lot line or located
directly across a street or alley.
   AREA. The total exposed surface devoted to the street graphic’s message,
including all ornamentation, embellishment and symbols, but excluding the
supporting structure which does not form part of the sign proper or of the
display. The AREA of a street graphic composed of characters or words shall be
the smallest rectangle which encloses the whole group. In the case of a free-
standing graphic designed with more than one exterior surface containing a
message, the AREA shall be computed as including only the maximum single
display surface which is visible from any one ground position.
   AWNING. Any structure made of cloth, metal or other material attached to a
building when the same is so erected as to permit its being raised or retracted
to a position against the building when not in use.
   BILLBOARD. A single or double faced street graphic, permanently fixed or
placed on the premises, which may have “change-copy”, or a street graphic used
for the display of messages or advertising not associated with the
establishment located on the same premises as the street graphic.
   CANOPY. A structure, other than an awning, made of cloth, metal or other
material with frames attached to a building, and carried by a frame supported
by the ground or sidewalks.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. A sign whereon provision is made for letters or
characters to be placed in or upon the surface area either manually or
electronically to provide a message or picture.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any one of the following:
      (1)   A single-family residential living unit;
      (2)   A multiple-family building or residential development having a
frontage on a public street or roadway;
      (3)   An institutional, business, commercial or industrial activity that
is the sole occupant of one or more buildings having at least one frontage on a
public street or roadway; and
      (4)   An institutional, business, commercial or industrial activity that
occupies a portion of a building such that:
         (a)   The activity is a logical and separate entity from the other
activities within the building and not a department of the whole;
         (b)   The portion of the building that is occupied by the activity has
a clearly defined frontage on a public street or roadway or to the common
parking area of a commercial center;
         (c)   The activity has either:
            1.   A separate entrance from the exterior of the building; or
            2.   A separate entrance from a common and clearly defined entryway
that has direct access from the exterior of the building.
         (d)   The activity is located on the first or second floor of the
building.
   EXEMPT GRAPHICS. Street graphics not subject to the regulations of this
chapter, as per §
155.011 of this chapter.
   FLUSH-MOUNTED GRAPHICS. Any street graphic attached to, erected against or
painted on a wall of a building or structure with the exposed face of the
graphic in a plane approximately parallel to the plane of the wall and not
projecting more than 18 inches.
   FREE-STANDING GRAPHIC. A street graphic supported by one or more uprights,
poles or braces placed in or upon the ground; or a street graphic supported by
any structure erected primarily for the display and support of the street
graphic.
   FRONTAGE. The linear extent of a lot abutting a street or public roadway, or
the linear extent of an establishment abutting a public parking area if said
establishment has no street frontage.
   GRAPHIC. See STREET GRAPHIC.
   LOT. A tract of land intended as a unit for the purpose of transfer of
ownership or development.
   LOT LINE. Any boundary (front, side or rear) of any lot.
   MARQUEE. Any hood of permanent construction projecting from the wall of a
building but not supported by the ground or sidewalk, serving the purpose of
providing shelter and protection from the weather.
   MESSAGE. A communication of identification or advertising information
visually perceived, which may consist of words, abbreviations, numbers,
symbols, pictures, geometric shapes and the like.
   MOBILE OR PORTABLE MARQUEE. A term commonly used to mean any street graphic
not designed to be permanently attached to a building or anchored to the ground
and designed to be moved from place to place. These signs primarily include,
but are not limited to, signs attached to wood or metal frames designed to be
self-supporting and movable; paper, cardboard or canvas signs wrapped around
supporting poles. A gasoline service station price-per-gallon sign shall not be
considered a MOBILE OR PORTABLE MARQUEE.
   NEON TUBE ILLUMINATION. A light source supplied by a neon tube which is bent
to form letters, symbols or other shapes.
   OFF-PREMISES GRAPHIC. A graphic which contains a message unrelated to the
business or activity conducted upon the premises where such graphic is located.
   PROJECTING GRAPHIC. Any street graphic, other than a flush-mounted graphic,
which is suspended from or supported by a building or wall, and which projects.
Any such street graphic suspended under a marquee, porch, walkway covering or
similar covering structure, and in a place approximately perpendicular to the
wall of the adjoining building, shall not be deemed to be a PROJECTING GRAPHIC.
   ROOF LINE. Either the edge of the roof or the top of the parapet, whichever
forms the top line of the building silhouette; and, where a building has
several roof levels, this roof or parapet shall be the one belonging to that
portion of the building on whose wall the street graphic is located.
   ROOF-MOUNTED GRAPHIC. Any street graphic erected, maintained or displayed on
the roof of any building.
   SIGN. A sign is any object, device, display or structure or part thereof
situated outdoors which is used to advertise, identify, display or attract
attention to an object, person, institution, organization, business, product,
service or event related to the premises on which the sign is situated, by any
means including words, letters, figures, designs, symbols, fixtures, colors,
motion, illumination or projected images. The term SIGN includes, but is not
limited to, every projecting sign; free-standing sign; window sign; awning,
canopy, marquee sign; changeable copy sign; illuminated sign; moving sign;
temporary sign; portable sign; pennants, banners, streamers or any other
attention-getting device; or other display whether affixed to a building or
erected elsewhere on the premises.
   STREET BANNER. A street graphic made of cloth, canvas, vinyl or other
material placed or hung on a streetlight or other public utility pole.
   STREET GRAPHIC. Any on-premises identification or advertising sign and any
billboard or off-premises advertising or identification sign, visible from the
public right-of-way of any street or roadway or from any parking area used by
the general public.
   TEMPORARY STREET GRAPHIC. Any street graphic, banner, pennant, valance or
advertising display constructed of cloth, canvas, light fabric, cardboard,
wallboard or other light materials, with or without frames, for use for a
limited period of time.
   TIME AND TEMPERATURE SIGN. A sign whereon the time and/or temperature is
indicated by intermittent lighting and limited to the numerals indicating the
time and/or temperature.
   UNUSUALLY SHAPED STREET GRAPHICS. Street graphics of unusual shapes such as
globes, cylinders or pyramids shall be considered double-faced street graphics
and the area of the street graphic shall be computed as one-half of the total
of the exposed surfaces.
   WINDOW. An opening in the wall of a building containing transparent or
translucent material such as glass.
   WINDOW GRAPHIC - PERMANENT. Any graphic visible from the exterior of a
building or structure which is painted, attached, glued or otherwise affixed to
a window or depicted upon a card, paper or other material and placed on, taped
on or hung immediately behind the window or displayed from a window for the
specific purpose of informing the passer-by of the identity of the proprietor
or business, or of the product or service which can be obtained on the
premises.
(1960 Code, § 53-1-2) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977; Ord. 5642, passed 10-21-
1996)
§ 155.003 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   The area of any street graphic shall be calculated as follows.
   (A)   If the graphic is enclosed by a box or outline, the total area
contained within that outline, including the background, shall be deemed the
graphic area.
   (B)   If the graphic consists of individual letters, parts or symbols, only
the area of the one imaginary square or rectangle which would completely
enclose all the letters, parts or symbols shall be deemed the graphic area.
   (C)   Only one side of any double facing graphic shall be considered for
purposes of area calculation.
   (D)   The area of street graphics of unusual shapes such as globes,
cylinders or pyramids shall be computed as one-half of the total of the exposed
surfaces.
(1960 Code, § 53-2-1) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.004 GRAPHIC AREA ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   Within the limitations and restrictions as further provided in this
chapter, the total of the areas of all street graphics which an establishment
is permitted to display shall be computed according to the following formula:
one and one-half square feet of graphics area per one foot of lineal street
frontage for the first 100 feet of such frontage, plus one square feet of
graphics area per one foot of frontage in excess of 100 feet of such frontage.
   (B)   Provided, the permitted total of the areas of all street graphics
which any establishment may display on each street on which it has frontage
shall not exceed 300 square feet, even in the least restrictive zoning
districts.
   (C)   If an establishment has frontage on two or more streets, each side
having such frontage shall be considered separately for purposes of determining
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   If an establishment has multiple frontages, the area allowances for
street graphics shall not be aggregated so as to permit such establishment to
display on any one frontage a greater area of graphics than would otherwise be
permitted under divisions (A) or (B) above.
      (2)   For purposes of computing the permitted total graphics area
allowances, the side of an establishment adjacent to an off-street parking area
shall not be deemed frontage unless the establishment has no other frontage.
(1960 Code, § 53-2-2) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977)
§ 155.005 ILLUMINATION.
   Illumination of street graphics is permitted, subject to the following
requirements.
   (A)   Only white light is permitted in residential zoning districts.
   (B)   No red, yellow, orange, green or other colored light shall be used at
any location in such a manner as to interfere with, mislead or confuse traffic.
   (C)   No graphic, other than those providing time and temperature
information or other electronically changing messages, shall have blinking,
flashing or fluttering lights or other illuminating device which has a changing
light intensity, brightness or color. Beacon lights and illumination by flame
or prohibited.
   (D)   The light from any illuminated graphic shall be shaded, shielded or
directed so that the light intensity or brightness avoids the creation or
continuation of any nuisance or traffic hazard.
   (E)   No exposed reflective type bulb and no strobe light or incandescent
lamp which exceeds 15 watts shall be used on the exterior surface of any
graphic in such manner as to expose the face of the bulb, light or lamp to any
public street or adjacent property.
(1960 Code, § 53-2-3) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.006 MOVEMENT PROHIBITED.
   No street graphic which mechanically revolves, rotates or moves in any
manner shall be permitted anywhere in the city.
(1960 Code, § 53-2-4) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.007 STRUCTURAL AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every street graphic structure shall be designed and constructed in a
safe manner and shall be free of any exposed extra bracing, angle iron,
guywires, cables and the like.
   (B)   Every street graphic shall be designed and constructed to withstand a
wind pressure of not less than 30 pounds per square foot of net surface area
and to receive dead loads as required in the Building Code.
   (C)   All street graphics in which electrical wiring and connections are
installed shall conform to the applicable provisions of the Electrical Code.
   (D)   The owner of a street graphic shall maintain it in a neat and
attractive condition. The street graphic and supports shall be kept painted to
prevent rust, rot or deterioration.
(1960 Code, § 53-2-5) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.008 OBSTRUCTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No street graphic shall be erected, relocated or maintained so as to prevent
free access to, or egress from any door, window, fire escape, ladder, driveway
or opening intended to provide light, air, access or egress for any building or
premises. No street graphic of any kind shall be attached to a standpipe or
fire escape.
(1960 Code, § 53-2-6) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.009 GRAPHICS NOT TO CONSTITUTE TRAFFIC HAZARDS.
   No street graphic shall be erected or maintained in such a manner as to be
likely to interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be confused with any
authorized traffic sign, signal or device as determined by the City Engineer.
Accordingly, no street graphic shall contain the words “stop”, “go”, “caution”,
“danger”, “warning” or similar words.
(1960 Code, § 53-2-7) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.010 OTHER PROHIBITED GRAPHICS.
   The following street graphics are prohibited everywhere in the city:
   (A)   Street graphics of the type commonly referred to as mobile or portable
marquees;
   (B)   Graphics which contain or consist of banners, posters, pennants,
ribbons, streamers, strings of light bulbs, spinners or similar devices;
   (C)   Graphics which are attached to any tree, fence or public utility pole,
other than warning signs issued by public utilities;
   (D)   Graphics (includes the posts or other supports therefor) which
advertise or identify an activity, business, product or service no longer
conducted on the premises on which the graphic is located; and
   (E)   Sandwich boards.
      (1)   Sandwich boards shall be permitted use in commercial zoned
districts* (*within the Special Services District Boundaries (CBD) a
conditional use shall be required by the Street Graphics Review Board and City
Council) when the following criteria are met:
         (a)   Shall not exceed a maximum of two feet by three feet (each
side); one sandwich board per business shall be allowed for each frontage;
         (b)   Shall not block pedestrian movement on sidewalk;
         (c)   Shall be secured to be immobile during high winds;
         (d)   Shall be removed from sidewalk upon closing and placed within
locked confines of establishment;
         (e)   Shall not include offensive or obscene text or graphics; and
         (f)   Shall advertise merchandise and/or services directly related to
abutting establishment.
      (2)   Divisions (E)(1)(a) through (E)(1)(f) above shall be strictly
enforced by the Building and Zoning Officials to the city.
(1960 Code, § 53-2-8) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977; Ord. 6382, passed 2-4-2002)
Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.011 EXEMPTED GRAPHICS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following street
graphics, and the area of such graphics shall not be debited against the total
graphics area allowance for any establishment:
   (A)   Traffic or other municipal street graphics such as railroad crossing
signs, legal notices and such temporary emergency signs as may be authorized by
the City Council;
   (B)   Signs of public utility companies indicating danger or which serve as
an aid to public safety or which show the location of underground facilities or
of public telephones;
   (C)   Directional, informational or public service signs not exceeding two
square feet in area, erected for the convenience of the public, such as signs
identifying entrances, exits, parking areas, no parking areas, restrooms,
public telephones, walkways and similar features or facilities;
   (D)   House numbers and/or name of occupant signs located on the lot to
which the sign is appurtenant and not exceeding three square feet;
   (E)   Signs located in the interior of any building or within an enclosed
lobby or court of any building or group of buildings, which signs are designed
and located to be viewed exclusively by the patrons of such buildings;
   (F)   No trespassing signs or other such signs regulating the use of a
property, such as no hunting, no fishing and the like of no more than two
square feet in area;
   (G)   Graphics advertising a public entertainment or event. Such graphics
shall be displayed only at locations and only during the time period approved
by the City Council. Said time period shall not be longer than 14 days before
and two days after the event;
   (H)   On-Premises signs of a professional such as a physician, dentist,
lawyer, accountant, architect, engineer, minister and the like, which sign
shall be limited to two square feet in area and have no commercial advertising;
   (I)   Flags of any country, state or unit of local government;
   (J)   Real estate signs not extending outside the property line and not more
than six square feet per face in area which indicate the sale, rental or lease
of the premises upon which said signs are located. No more than one real estate
sign per street side shall be placed on any lot;
   (K)   Residential development identification structures at major entrances
designed to identify a residential subdivision or planned unit development and
containing no commercial advertising;
   (L)   Construction signs identifying the architects, engineers, contractors
and other individuals or firms involved with the construction, and/or
announcing the character of the building enterprise, or the purpose for which
the building is intended, but not advertising any product. Such signs shall not
exceed 20 square feet in area, shall be confined to the site of the
construction and shall be removed within ten days after the beginning of the
intended use of the project;
   (M)   Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings and date of erection
when cut into any masonry surface or inlaid so as to be part of the building or
when constructed of bronze or other incombustible material;
   (N)   Signs of historical societies containing no advertising and not more
than five square feet in area;
   (O)   Bulletin board not over 20 square feet in area for a public,
charitable or religious institution, when located on the premises of such
institution and not obstructing the vision of motorists;
   (P)   Holiday decorations such as Christmas lights and ornaments; provided
that, such decorations shall be removed within a reasonable time after the
holiday;
   (Q)   Temporary graphics advertising a sale or similar temporary activity;
provided that, said graphics shall not be displayed longer than seven days at
any one time, nor more than four times in any calendar year;
   (R)   Political campaign signs that announce or support political candidates
or issues in connection with any national, state or local election, including
only those signs specifically advocating on behalf of a person, or a position
on a question, to be considered by voters on a ballot that has been certified
in accordance with the state’s Election Code; and
   (S)   Political message signs, other than a political campaign sign, that
express a non-commercial message regarding an issue of political or public
concern.
(1960 Code, § 53-2-9) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977; Ord. 7749, passed 2-18-2014)
Penalty, see §
155.999
CERTAIN TYPES OF GRAPHICS; REGULATIONS
§ 155.025 SCOPE.
   Every street graphic which an establishment displays shall, at a minimum,
conform to the applicable requirements of this subchapter; provided that,
whenever more stringent regulations, based on the type of establishment to
which such graphic is appurtenant or the zoning district in which the
establishment is located (§§
155.045 through
155.053 of this chapter), are applicable, such regulations shall prevail.
(1960 Code, § 53-3-1) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.026 FLUSH-MOUNTED GRAPHICS.
   (A)   Flush-mounted graphics are the preferred type in the city.
   (B)   No flush-mounted graphic shall:
      (1)   Project more than 18 inches from the wall or surface to which it is
attached. If such wall or surface is not vertical, the projection shall be
measured from the closest point of the wall or surface to the street graphic;
or
      (2)   Extend more than 20 feet above the ground or pavement, except in an
industrial district.
(1960 Code, § 53-3-2) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.027 PROJECTING GRAPHICS.
   (A)   No establishment in any zoning district shall have more than one
projecting graphic per street front.
   (B)   No projecting graphic shall:
      (1)   Project over a street, alley or driveway, or closer than two feet
to the curb or edge of such roadway;
      (2)   Project more than four feet from the building to which it is
attached;
      (3)   Extend below a point eight feet above the ground or pavement;
      (4)   Extend above a point 20 feet above the ground or pavement; or
      (5)   Exceed 16 square feet in area.
(1960 Code, § 53-3-3) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.028 FREE-STANDING GRAPHICS.
   (A)   In any zoning district, no establishment or group of establishments
constituting a shopping center shall have more than two free-standing graphics
per street front.
   (B)   Free-standing graphics shall comply with all of the following
regulations.
      (1)   No free-standing graphic shall project into the public right-of-
way.
      (2)   No free-standing graphic shall be closer than five feet to any side
lot line.
      (3)   No free-standing graphic, not including the posts or supports,
shall exceed 12 feet in any dimension.
      (4)   When attached to a post or other supporting structure, no free-
standing graphic shall extend more than 20 feet above the ground or pavement.
      (5)   No free-standing graphic shall exceed 100 square feet in area.
(1960 Code, § 53-3-4) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.029 WINDOW GRAPHICS.
   Any industrial, commercial or institutional establishment may display
permanent window graphics shall cover no more than 100 square feet of the
window area. Permanent window graphics shall be debited against the total area
of all graphics permitted the particular establishment.
(1960 Code, § 53-3-5) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977)
§ 155.030 AWNING, CANOPY AND MARQUEE GRAPHICS.
   (A)   No establishment shall have more than one awning, canopy or marquee
graphic per street front. An awning, canopy or marquee graphic may be painted
on or affixed directly to such structure, or may be suspended below it.
   (B)   No awning, canopy or marquee graphic shall:
      (1)   Extend below a point eight feet above the ground or pavement;
      (2)   Exceed 16 square feet in area; or
      (3)   Extend more than four feet from the building to which it is
attached.
(1960 Code, § 53-3-6) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.031 ROOF-MOUNTED GRAPHICS.
   (A)   Roof-mounted graphics are permitted only in industrial districts.
   (B)   No roof-mounted graphic shall:
      (1)   Extend more than 25 feet above the roof level;
      (2)   Exceed 25 feet in any dimension; or
      (3)   Exceed 300 square feet in area.
(1960 Code, § 53-3-7) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.032 BILLBOARDS.
   (A)   No billboard or other off-premises advertising graphics shall be
erected or maintained in the city after the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Any lawful billboard which exists on the effective date of this
chapter may lawfully remain subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   Enlargement or alterations. No such billboard shall be enlarged or
altered in any way which increases its non-conformity.
      (2)   Relocation. No such billboard shall be relocated.
      (3)   Reconstruction. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the
reconstruction, repairing, rebuilding, or continuing use of non-conforming
billboard or off-street graphic damage by fire, collapse, explosion or act of
God subsequent to the date of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 53-3-8) (Ord. 4782, passed 10-29-1990; Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-
1977) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.033 STREET BANNERS.
   (A)   General. Street banners shall be permitted only on public streetlight
or other public utility poles in commercial zoned districts and only upon
approval by the Street Graphics Review Board upon filing of a formal
application per §
155.069 of this chapter and review at a public hearing in accordance with §
155.095 of this chapter.
   (B)   Criteria for approval. The following criteria shall be considered in
granting approval of any application for a street banner.
      (1)   Only street banners requests shall be considered. All posters,
pennants, ribbons, streamers, strings of light bulbs or other similar devices
shall strictly be prohibited as per §
155.010 of this chapter.
      (2)   If request includes downtown area location along East and West Main
Streets and North and South Illinois Streets, banners shall be hung by City
Street Department employees using the city’s banner brackets and hardware.
      (3)   If request includes location outside downtown area, the requestee
shall have qualified personnel display banners and must include the display
procedure to be used in the application.
      (4)   Banners to be displayed shall measure 30 inches by 60 inches, the
“standard” banner dimensions.
      (5)   The city shall permit no more than two banners on any streetlight
or utility poles.
      (6)   The city shall not be held liable for any damages to banners.
      (7)   Requests shall include a specified display period of no more than
one year.
      (8)   A copy of the banner to be displayed shall accompany the request.
      (9)   Only banners commemorating anniversaries or significant events of
public institutions or like organizations shall be considered. Banner requests
for sales or other similar advertising medium shall not be considered.
      (10)   Costs assumed by the city to display banners shall be considered
with each request and may be assessed to the requestee.
(1960 Code, § 53-3-9) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977; Ord. 5642, passed 10-21-
1996)
GRAPHICS CONTROLS BASED ON TYPE OF ESTABLISHMENT OR ZONING DISTRICT
§ 155.045 SCOPE AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   No street graphic shall be erected in any zoning district of the city
in violation of the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Whenever, after the enactment of this chapter, any zoning district is
created or modified with respect to boundaries or permitted uses, the Graphics
Review Board, subject to the approval of the City Council, shall determine what
existing zoning district is most similar to the new or modified district, and
shall so inform the Building Commissioner.
   (C)   Thereafter, the Building Commissioner shall enforce the provisions of
the section of this subchapter pertaining to that most similar district.
(1960 Code, § 53-4-1) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977)
§ 155.046 INTERPRETATION.
   Whenever any establishment or use is permitted in more than one zoning
district, the provisions of the section of this subchapter applicable to such
establishment or use in the most restrictive district in which it is permitted
shall apply.
(1960 Code, § 53-4-2) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977)
§ 155.047 A-1 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   In any A-1 (Single-Family Residence) Zoning District, only those street
graphics exempted from the provisions of this chapter shall be permitted. (See
§
155.011 of this chapter.)
(1960 Code, § 53-4-3) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.048 A-2, B-1 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   In any A-2 (Two-Family Residence) or B-1 (Multi-Family Residence)
Zoning District, street graphics may contain only identification information,
not commercial advertising. Non-exempt street graphics in these districts shall
be either window graphics or flush-mounted.
   (B)   Furthermore:
      (1)   On any building or premises used solely as a residence by more than
one family, the total of the areas of all street graphics shall not exceed six
square feet; and
      (2)   On all other permitted establishments, the total of the area of all
street graphics shall not exceed 30 square feet. (But, see provision in §
155.074 of this chapter.)
(1960 Code, § 53-4-4) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.049 C-1, C-2 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   No roof-mounted graphics are permitted in any commercial zoning district.
All permitted graphics shall conform to every applicable requirement of this
chapter. Additionally, special graphics controls are applicable in the downtown
business area.
(1960 Code, § 53-4-5) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.050 RATIONALE FOR DOWNTOWN AREA OF SPECIAL CONTROL.
   (A)   (1)   In recent years, the city’s downtown business area has suffered
from a variety of problems.
      (2)   These problems include poor vehicular traffic circulation, improper
location of parking space, lack of amenities such as landscaping and benches,
deteriorating commercial structures and increased competition from suburban
shopping centers.
      (3)   Another significant factor contributing to the ill-health of the
downtown area is the proliferation of oversize and garish signs.
   (B)   (1)   In order to remedy these problems so as to create an
esthetically pleasing and thriving downtown business area, the city and private
citizens are undertaking several major downtown revitalization projects
involving the expenditure of substantial sums of money.
      (2)   The City Council has determined that it is essential to the success
of those efforts that additional controls, supplemental to the other applicable
provisions of this chapter be imposed on all street graphics in the downtown
business area.
(1960 Code, § 53-4-6) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977)
§ 155.051 DESIGNATION AS AREA OF SPECIAL CONTROL.
   The downtown business area of the city is hereby designated an “area of
special control” for purposes of regulating all street graphics now or
hereafter located therein. As used in this chapter, the term DOWNTOWN BUSINESS
AREA shall mean the area bounded by extending an imaginary line connecting
Sixth Street on the west, B Street on the north, Oak Street on the east and
Lincoln Street on the south.
(1960 Code, § 53-4-7) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977)
§ 155.052 SPECIAL GRAPHICS REGULATIONS IN DOWNTOWN AREA.
   (A)   After the date of the enactment of this chapter, no street graphic
shall be erected, and no existing street graphic shall be permitted to remain
for more than five years, unless such graphic has been approved by the City
Council upon the recommendation of the Graphics Review Board.
   (B)   The City Council shall approve only those street graphics which:
      (1)   Conform to every pertinent regulation of this chapter; and
      (2)   Are compatible with the theme and overall character to be achieved
in the downtown area.
(1960 Code, § 53-4-8) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.053 CRITERIA FOR DETERMINING COMPATIBILITY.
   In determining whether a street graphic is compatible with the theme and
overall character to be achieved in the downtown business area, the following
criteria shall be considered:
   (A)   Relationship of the graphic to the building or premises, particularly
in terms of scale. In no case shall a graphic cover or interrupt major
architectural details such as columns, friezes and door and window heads;
   (B)   Similarity or dissimilarity of the graphic’s size and shape to that of
other graphics in the area;
   (C)   Compatibility of the type of illumination (if any) with the “period
look” to be achieved. For example, neon tube lighting except in very unusual
cases would not be compatible with a “Gay 90s’ period” look;
   (D)   Compatibility of the materials used in constructing the graphic with
the materials of other graphics in the area. For example, an aluminum graphic
might not be compatible with a wooden graphic;
   (E)   Compatibility of the graphic’s mode of erection with that of other
graphics in the area. For example, a free-standing graphic would likely be a
jarring note if the vast majority of the other graphics were flush-mounted; and
   (F)   Any other reasonable criteria which the Board may devise, subject to
the approval of the City Council.
(1960 Code, § 53-4-9) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977; Ord. 7749, passed 2-18-2014)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 155.065 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Building Commissioner is hereby authorized and directed to diligently
enforce every provision of this chapter, except those provisions which
specifically delegate certain duties to other city officers or boards. No order
for correction of any violation under this chapter shall be issued other than
by the Building Commissioner. Before any graphics-related order is issued, the
Building Commissioner shall determine that such order has the concurrence of
any other officer or board concerned with any matter pertinent to the case in
question.
(1960 Code, § 53-5-1) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977)
§ 155.066 INSPECTION.
   The Building Commissioner (or his or her agents) shall, upon complaint,
inspect a street graphic in order to ascertain whether it complies with the
provisions of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 53-5-2) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977; Ord. 7749, passed 2-18-2014)
§ 155.067 REGISTRATION OF EXISTING STREET GRAPHICS.
   Every existing street graphic located in the area of special control shall
be registered by the owner within 180 days of the enactment of this chapter.
Registration shall be on forms provided by the Building Commissioner.
(1960 Code, § 53-5-3) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977)
§ 155.068 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No street graphic, except those exempted from the provisions of this
chapter, shall hereafter be erected, altered or relocated without a permit
issued by the Building Commissioner.
(1960 Code, § 53-5-4) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.069 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Application for a street graphic permit shall be made on forms provided by
the Building Commissioner, and shall include the following information:
   (A)   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
   (B)   Location of the building, structure or lot upon which the street
graphic is to be erected;
   (C)   Type of establishment which will display the graphic;
   (D)   Position of street graphic in relation to nearby building, street
grade and traffic-control devices;
   (E)   Two copies of plans and specifications showing method of construction,
location and support;
   (F)   Sketch showing street graphic faces, exposed surfaces and proposed
message accurately represented in scale as to size, proportion and color;
   (G)   Name of person, corporation or firm erecting the street graphic;
   (H)   A copy of stress sheets and calculations showing that the structure is
designed for dead load and wind pressure in any amount required by this and all
other laws and city ordinances, if required by the Building Commissioner; and
   (I)   Such other information as the Building Commissioner shall require to
determine full compliance with this and all other laws and city ordinances.
(1960 Code, § 53-5-5) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977)
§ 155.070 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Upon the filing of an application for a street graphic permit, the
Building Commissioner shall examine the plans and specifications, the premises
upon which it is proposed to erect the street graphic and other data.
   (B)   If it appears that the proposed graphic is in compliance with all
applicable requirements of this chapter, he or she shall issue the permit; if
not, he or she shall state in writing his or her reason(s) for denial within 14
days of the date of application.
   (C)   If the work authorized under the permit has not been completed within
one year after the date of issuance, the permit shall become null and void.
(1960 Code, § 53-5-6) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977)
§ 155.071 PERMIT FEES.
   Before being granted a permit, every applicant shall pay to the Building and
Zoning Commissioner the following permit fee for each street graphic to be
erected: $0.50 per square foot of graphic area, but not less than $15 for each
street graphic.
(1960 Code, § 53-5-7) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977; Ord. 5329, passed 11-7-1994)
§ 155.072 INFORMATION TO BE PLACED ON GRAPHIC.
   Every street graphic hereafter erected shall have painted in a conspicuous
place thereon, or printed on a metal plate affixed thereto, in legible letters,
the following information:
   (A)   Date of erection of the graphic;
   (B)   Name of the permittee;
   (C)   Permit number; and
   (D)   Voltage of any electrical apparatus used in connection with the
graphic.
(1960 Code, § 53-5-8) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977)
§ 155.073 NON-CONFORMING STREET GRAPHICS.
   (A)   Non-conforming street graphics may be continued, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter. A street graphic previously constructed in compliance
with existing ordinances or regulations is or becomes “non-conforming” if it is
not in conformance with the provisions of this chapter on either of the
following dates:
      (1)   The date of the original enactment; or
      (2)   Any date on which this chapter is amended.
   (B)   A non-conforming street graphic shall not be:
      (1)   Changed to another non-conforming street graphic (provided that,
changing the message on a changeable copy sign shall not be deemed a violation
of this provision);
      (2)   Structurally altered so as to prolong the life of the street
graphic;
      (3)    Expanded;
      (4)   Re-established after its discontinuance for 30 days;
      (5)   Moved in whole or in part to another location unless said street
graphic, and the use thereof, is made to conform to every applicable provision
of this chapter; or
      (6)   Re-established after damage or destruction in an amount exceeding
50% of the initial value of the street graphic as determined by the Building
Commissioner.
   (C)   Provided that, whenever any street graphic is non-conforming solely
because it is appurtenant to a non-conforming commercial/industrial use located
in any residential district, the Building Commissioner shall enforce the
restrictions enumerated above only to the extent necessary to achieve
compliance with the regulations applicable to street graphics appurtenant to
commercial/industrial uses located in any commercial or industrial district.
(1960 Code, § 53-5-9) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977)
§ 155.074 DISCONTINUANCE OF NON-CONFORMING STREET GRAPHICS.
   (A)   Any street graphic which is non-conforming on the date of the
enactment of this chapter, because such graphic is prohibited by or in
violation of any of the following section(s) shall either be altered or removed
to bring such street graphic into compliance with such section(s) within the
time period indicated in the ordinance codified herein.
   (B)   Existing free-standing and flush-mounted graphics not extending more
than 30 feet above the ground or pavement shall be exempt from this section
provided they meet all the other requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Existing billboards and other off-premises advertising graphics
located in the C-1 and C-2 Zoning District (excluding the downtown “area of
special control”) shall be exempt from this section; provided, they meet all
the other requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Any street graphic previously constructed in compliance with existing
regulations which becomes non-conforming because of any amendment to this
chapter shall be removed, altered or replaced so as to conform with the
provisions of this chapter within five years after the effective date of the
amendment.
(1960 Code, § 53-5-10) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977)
§ 155.075 UNSAFE OR UNLAWFUL STREET GRAPHICS.
   (A)   Whenever the Building Commissioner reasonably believes that any street
graphic or supporting structure in the city is unsafe or unlawful (either
because the time limits for removal specified in §
155.074 of this chapter have been exceeded or for any other reason), he or she
shall cause written notice to be served upon the owner of such graphic by
certified or registered mail or by personal service.
   (B)   The notice shall state the street graphic has been declared unsafe or
unlawful and that it must be altered, removed or repaired at once.
   (C)   Such notice may be in the following term:
 
To                                                                              , owner of the street graphic located at                                                                                                               (here insert general location of street graphic) and
generally described as                                                                                                                                                   (here insert sufficient information to identify particular street graphic). You are hereby notified that the above
mentioned street graphic has been declared unsafe or unlawful after inspection by. The reasons for this decision are                                                                                                                       (here insert the facts as to the unsafe or unlawful
condition). You must remedy this condition or remove the street graphic or the city will proceed to do so.
 
 
(1960 Code, § 53-5-11) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977; Ord. 7749, passed 2-18-
2014)
§ 155.076 REMOVAL BY CITY, REIMBURSEMENT FOR COSTS.
   (A)   If, after 30 days from the date of service, the person receiving the
notice required by §
155.075 of this chapter has not complied therewith or appealed the decision
that an unsafe or unlawful condition exists, the Building Commissioner may,
upon approval by the Mayor proceed to remedy the condition.
   (B)   Any expense incurred by the city pursuant to such remedial action
shall be billed by first class mail to the owner, agent or person having the
beneficial use of the building, structure or premises upon which the street
graphic is located.
   (C)   If the bill has not been paid within 30 days, the unpaid charge shall
constitute a lien upon the real estate. The City Attorney is hereby authorized
to file a notice of lien in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of the county
to foreclose this lien and to sue the owner of the real estate, or sign
permittee, or his, her or their agents, in a civil action to recover the money
due for the foregoing services, plus all expenses incurred pursuant to
collection efforts including litigation expenses, plus reasonable attorney’s
fees to be fixed by the court. Any judgment shall be enforced in accordance
with law.
(1960 Code, § 53-5-12) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977; Ord. 7749, passed 2-18-
2014)
§ 155.077 DISCLAIMER OF ADMINISTRATIVE LIABILITY.
   (A)   Except as may be provided otherwise by statute or ordinance, no
officer, board member, agent or employee of the city shall render himself or
herself personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property
as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his or her
duties under this chapter.
   (B)   Any suit brought against any officer, board member, agent or employee
of the city, as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of
his or her duties under this chapter, shall be defended by the City Attorney
until the final determination of the legal proceedings.
(1960 Code, § 53-5-14) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977)
GRAPHICS REVIEW BOARD; APPEALS
§ 155.090 CREATION OF GRAPHICS REVIEW BOARD.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals of the city shall serve as the Street Graphics
Review Board which shall hear all appeals in matters arising under this chapter
and shall perform such other duties as the City Council may prescribe.
(1960 Code, § 53-6-1) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977; Ord. 6408, passed 4-1-2002)
§ 155.091 BOARD MEETINGS.
   Meetings of the Graphics Review Board shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson or any two members, or at such times as the Board may determine.
Three members of the Board shall constitute a quorum, and an affirmative vote
of at least three members shall be necessary to authorize any action of the
Board. All hearings and deliberations of the Board shall be open to the public.
(1960 Code, § 53-6-2) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977)
§ 155.092 VARIANCES.
   A variance is a relaxation of the requirements of this chapter that are
applicable to a particular street graphic.
(1960 Code, § 53-6-3) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977; Ord. 3468, passed 11-8-1977)
§ 155.093 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every application for a variance shall be filed with the Administrator
on a prescribed form. The Administrator shall promptly transmit said
application to the Street Graphics Review Board.
   (B)   The application shall contain sufficient information to allow the
Board to make an informed recommendation and shall include, at a minimum, the
following:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Location of the street graphic for which the variance is sought;
      (3)   Full and detailed explanation of the grounds for the variance
request;
      (4)   Specific section(s) of this chapter containing the regulations
which, if strictly applied, would cause a serious problem; and
      (5)   Any other pertinent information that the Administrator may require.
(1960 Code, § 53-6-4) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977; Ord. 3468, passed 11-8-1977)
§ 155.094 FEE.
   The fee for filing a variance request shall be $75.
(1960 Code, § 53-6-5) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977; Ord. 3468, passed 11-8-1977)
§ 155.095 PUBLIC HEARING NOTICE.
   The Street Graphics Review Board shall hold a public hearing on each
variance request within a reasonable time after the variance application is
submitted to it. At the hearing, any interested party may appear and testify,
either in person or by duly-authorized agent or attorney. Notice indicating the
time, date and place of the hearing, and the nature of the proposed variance
shall be given not more than 30, nor less than 15, days before the hearing by
publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the city.
(1960 Code, § 53-6-6) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977; Ord. 3468, passed 11-8-1977)
§ 155.096 ADVISORY REPORT.
   Within a reasonable time after the public hearing, the Street Graphics
Review Board shall submit an advisory report on the requested variance to the
City Council.
(1960 Code, § 53-6-7) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977; Ord. 3468, passed 11-8-1977)
§ 155.097 CRITERIA FOR VARIANCE DETERMINATION.
   The Street Graphics Review Board shall not recommend, nor shall the City
Council grant, a variance unless it finds:
   (A)   The street graphic for which the variance is sought, or the building
or premises on which such graphic is situated is subject to special conditions
or circumstances peculiar to such graphic, building or premises;
   (B)   The special conditions or circumstances are such that a variance is
essential to prevent great practical difficulty and/or hardship, and to make
possible the reasonable use of the building or premises;
   (C)   The proposed street graphic variance is the minimum variance which
will permit such reasonable use;
   (D)   In the case of the downtown business area of special control, that
granting the variance will not result in the maintenance or erection of a
street graphic which is not harmonious with the theme and character of the mall
and other redevelopment projects;
   (E)   The granting of the variance will be consistent with the purposes and
intent of this chapter, and will not be injurious to the area in which the
graphic will be located or otherwise detrimental to the public welfare; and
   (F)   A variance rather than an amendment to this chapter is the more
appropriate mechanism to handle the situation; the primary criterion for this
determination shall be the degree of peculiarity of the conditions or
circumstances engendering the variance request.
(1960 Code, § 53-6-8) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977; Ord. 3468, passed 11-8-1977)
§ 155.098 DECISION BY CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall act on every request for a street graphic variance at
its next regularly scheduled meeting following submission of the Review Board’s
advisory report. The Council may grant a street graphic variance by simple
majority vote of all the members then holding office. In a separate statement,
the Council shall state its findings of fact and indicate its reasons for
granting or denying the requested variance.
(1960 Code, § 53-6-9) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977; Ord. 3468, passed 11-8-1977)
§ 155.099 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by any decision or order of the Building
Commissioner in any matter related to the interpretation or enforcement of any
provision of this chapter may appeal to the Street Graphics Review Board. Every
appeal shall be taken within 30 days after such decision or order by filing
with the Building Commissioner and the Board, a written notice which specifies
the grounds of appeal. The fee for filing an appeal shall be $50.
   (B)   Within five days after the filing of an appeal, the Building
Commissioner shall transmit to the Board all records pertinent to the case. He
or she shall take no further action on the matter pending the Board’s decision,
except for unsafe graphics which present an immediate and serious danger to the
public.
   (C)   The Board shall hold a public hearing on the case no later than 45
days after the filing of the appeal notice. A notice of the time and date of
the hearing, and a brief description of the subject matter to be reviewed,
shall be sent by registered mail to the petitioner and to the owners of all
property located not more than 100 feet from any lot line of the petitioner’s
property. Substantially, similar notice shall be published in a newspaper of
general circulation within the city at least 15 days, but not more than 30
days, before the hearing date.
   (D)   Any interested party may appear and testify at the hearing, either in
person or by duly-authorized agent or attorney.
   (E)   Following the public hearing, the Street Graphics Review Board shall
transmit its recommendations to the City Council. The City Council shall act
upon the recommendations at its next regularly scheduled meeting.
(1960 Code, § 53-6-10) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977; Ord. 3468, passed 11-8-
1977)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $25, nor
more than $500, for each offense. Each day that such violation continues shall
be deemed a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   The owner or tenant of any building, structure, premises or part
thereof and any architect, building, contractor, agent or other person who
commits, participates in or maintains such violation may be found guilty of a
separate offense and suffer the penalties herein provided.
(1960 Code, § 53-5-13) (Ord. 3427, passed 3-7-1977)
CHAPTER 156: MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Intent and purpose
   
156.02   Minimum requirements
   
156.03   Relationship to other laws, regulations
   
156.04   Full compliance with regulations
   
156.05   Definitions
   
156.06   Interpretation
Licenses, Permits and Conditions
   
156.20   License
   
156.21   Application for license
   
156.22   Issuance of license or permit
   
156.23   License fee
   
156.24   Revocation or suspension of license
   
156.25   Permit, display of permit and license transfer
   
156.26   Supervision and facilities
   
156.27   Independent mobile homes
   
156.28   Approval of application for permit
   
156.29   Records
   
156.30   Regulations
   
156.31   Mobile home park register
   
156.32   Inspection and visitation
   
156.33   Enforcement, inspection
   
156.34   Hearings
 
   
156.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Property Maintenance Code, see
Ch. 154
   Subdivisions, see
Ch. 161
   Zoning, see
Ch. 162
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The intent and purpose of this chapter is to provide for regulations and
requirements for the creation, development, licensing, operation and
maintenance of mobile home parks within the corporate limits of the city in
order to preserve, protect and promote the public health, safety and general
welfare.
(1960 Code, § 19-1-19) (Ord. 5170, passed 12-6-1993)
§ 156.02 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   Every provision of this chapter shall be construed liberally in favor of the
city and every regulation set forth herein shall be considered the minimum
requirement for the promotion of public health, safety and welfare.
(1960 Code, § 19-1-19) (Ord. 5170, passed 12-6-1993)
§ 156.03 RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER LAWS, REGULATIONS.
   Whenever the requirements of this chapter differ from or are in conflict
with those of any other regulation or other ordinance, the more stringent
requirement shall prevail.
(1960 Code, § 19-1-19) (Ord. 5170, passed 12-6-1993)
§ 156.04 FULL COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
   Upon the effective date of this chapter, existing mobile home parks shall
have five years to be in full compliance with the provisions and requirements
as set forth in this chapter and other pertinent regulations. The required
license shall expire after the fifth year for all mobile parks not found to be
in compliance or where variances/waivers have not been approved by the
corporate authority.
(1960 Code, § 19-1-19) (Ord. 5170, passed 12-6-1993)
§ 156.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANCHOR. Any approved device designed to be implanted in the ground and/or
concrete to which the mobile home tie-down equipment is attached so as to
prevent the home from shifting or toppling over as a result of high winds.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Planning and Development of the city.
   DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which does not have self- contained
plumbing, heating and electrical systems.
   IMMOBILIZE. To remove permanently the wheels, tongue, hitch and other
essential transportation devices from a home and/or to place any mobile home on
a permanent foundation.
   INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which includes the plumbing, heating
and electrical systems self-contained. Said structure shall be constructed to
meet the HUD requirements for mobile homes and shall be at least eight body
feet or more in width and 40 body feet or more in length.
   LICENSE. A permit issued by the Building and Zoning Commissioner authorizing
the operation of a mobile home park in accordance with all applicable
provisions of this chapter and other requirements of the city.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. See MOBILE HOME definition.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure designed for habitation and so constructed as to
permit its transport on wheels, temporarily or permanently attached to its
frames, from the place of its construction to the location or subsequent
locations, at which it is intended to be a permanent habitation and designed to
permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one or more persons; the
term MOBILE HOME shall also include manufactured houses constructed after 6-30-
1976, in accordance with the Federal National Manufactured Housing Construction
and Safety Standards Act of 1974. It is further provided that for the purpose
of this chapter, the definition of MOBILE HOME shall include any portable
structure used as an office; except that, it shall not include a temporary
portable structure at a construction site; provided further that, if a
temporary construction site structure remains at a construction site for over
one year, permission to remain thereafter must be obtained from the Building
and Zoning Commissioner. As defined in this chapter, a MOBILE HOME differs from
a modular home in that it does not meet the adopted Building Code for the city.
(See definition of MODULAR, PRECUT OR PREFAB HOME in §
162.006 of this code of ordinances.)
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A tract of land or two or more contiguous tracts of land
upon which contains sites with the necessary utilities for five or more
independent mobile homes for permanent habitation either free of charge or for
revenue purposes, and shall include any building, structure, vehicle or
enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the equipment of such mobile
home park. Separate ownership of contiguous tracts of land shall not preclude
the tracts of land from common licensure as a MOBILE HOME PARK if they are
maintained and operated jointly. As specified in the Zoning Code, any newly
developed mobile home park shall contain a parcel of land not less than ten
acres in area in single/ownership control.
   MOBILE HOME SPACE or MOBILE HOME SITE. Any portion of a mobile home park
designed for the use or occupancy of one mobile home.
   PERMANENT HABITATION. A period of two or more months.
   SCHOOL DISTRICT. Any district created or operated under the provisions of
the School Code of the state (105 ILCS).
   TIE-DOWN EQUIPMENT. Any approved device(s) used to attach a mobile home to
anchors so as to keep the home securely on its stand/foundation. Must be in
compliance with the state’s Mobile Home Tiedown Act, being 210 ILCS 120/1 et
seq.
(1960 Code, § 19-1-1) (Ord. 5170, passed 12-6-1993; Ord. 5218, passed 2-7-1994;
Ord. 5429, passed 5-15-1995)
§ 156.06 INTERPRETATION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the requirements set
forth for mobile home parks in the Zoning Code (
Ch. 162 of this code of ordinances).
(1960 Code, § 19-1-18) (Ord. 5170, passed 12-6-1993)
LICENSES, PERMITS AND CONDITIONS
§ 156.20 LICENSE.
   No person, firm or corporation shall establish, maintain, conduct or operate
a mobile home park without first obtaining a license therefor from the
Department. Such license shall be issued for one year and shall expire at
midnight on April 30 of the year next following the issuance thereof. The
license shall be renewed from year to year upon payment of the annual license
fee herein provided and upon certification by the Building and Zoning
Commissioner that the application is in substantial compliance with all
provisions of this chapter and other pertinent codes and regulations of the
city.
(1960 Code, § 19-1-2) (Ord. 5170, passed 12-6-1993) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.21 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   In order to obtain a permit to construct, or an original license to
operate a mobile home park, the applicant shall file with the Department a
written application setting forth:
      (1)   The full name and address of the applicant, or names and addresses
of the partners if the applicant is a partnership, or the names and addresses
of the officers if the applicant is a corporation, and the present or last
occupation of the applicant at the time of the filing of the application. If
the applicant is a corporation, a copy of the certificate of incorporation must
be filed with the application;
      (2)   The address, location and legal description of the tract of land
upon which it is proposed to construct, operate and maintain a mobile home
park;
      (3)   The proposed and existing facilities in the mobile home park for
water supply, sewage, garbage and waste disposal, and fire protection;
      (4)   The proposed method of lighting the structures and land upon which
the mobile home park is to be located;
      (5)   The calendar months of the year in which applicant will operate
said mobile home park;
      (6)   The plot plans of the mobile home park, building plans and
specifications for existing buildings and facilities, and the plans and
specifications for new buildings and facilities or the proposed alterations in
existing facilities, all as may be required by the rules and regulations under
the provisions of this chapter;
      (7)   A statement of the fire-fighting facilities, public or private,
which are available to the mobile home park; and
      (8)   The number of mobile home sites proposed to be constructed or
licensed.
   (B)   An affidavit of the applicant as to the truth of the matters contained
in the application shall be attached thereto.
   (C)   Where a permit to construct as well as an original license to operate
is sought by the applicant, request therefor shall be made in the same
application.
(1960 Code, § 19-1-3) (Ord. 5170, passed 12-6-1993)
§ 156.22 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a permit to construct a mobile home
park or an application for a license to operate and maintain the same, the
Department shall, if the park is, or the proposed park will be, in conformity
with this chapter and the rules and regulations adopted by the city pursuant
thereto, issue a permit to construct or an original license, as the case may
be. If the application for a permit to construct or a license is declined, the
Department shall give the reasons therefor in writing to the applicant; and, if
the objections can be corrected, the applicant may amend his or her application
and resubmit it for approval.
   (B)   The applicant may appeal the decision of the Department not to renew
or issue a license pursuant to division (A) above through a written request to
the City Council filed with the City Clerk on a form provided by the
Department.
   (C)   If a permit to construct a mobile home park has been issued, the
applicant, upon completion thereof, shall notify the Department who shall then
inspect the mobile home park and, if completed in accordance with the accepted
application, the Department shall issue a license.
   (D)   No change in any sanitary facilities, methods of water supply, sewer,
drainage, garbage or waste disposal, and no change in the plot plan shall be
made without first making a written application to the Department and receiving
a written permit therefrom. Such application shall be made in the way and
manner hereinbefore set forth. Such change or changes shall comply with such
Safety and Sanitary Code, codes, rules and regulations as are applicable
thereto. The written application shall be accompanied by detailed plans and
specification as may be required by City Engineer’s office in order to obtain
the required permit to construct and/or modify the public facilities.
   (E)   Such a permit does not relieve the applicant from securing a building
permit or from complying with any zoning or other ordinances applicable
thereto.
(1960 Code, § 19-1-4) (Ord. 5170, passed 12-6-1993; Ord. 5218, passed 2-7-1994)
§ 156.23 LICENSE FEE.
   A licensee under this chapter shall pay to the City Clerk, on or before
April 30 of each year, an annual license fee of $50 for the first four mobile
homes in the mobile home park and, thereafter, an additional sum of $5 for each
additional mobile home space in the park.
(1960 Code, § 19-1-5) (Ord. 5170, passed 12-6-1993; Ord. 5921, passed 10-19-
1998)
§ 156.24 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   Any license under this chapter shall be subject to revocation or suspension
by the Department. However, the Department shall first serve or cause to be
served upon the licensee, a written notice in which shall be specified the way
or ways in which such licensee has failed to comply with this chapter, or any
rules or regulations promulgated by the Department pertaining thereto. Said
notice shall require the licensee to remove or abate such nuisance, unsanitary
or objectionable condition, specified in such notice within five days or within
a longer period of time as may be allowed by the Department. If the licensee
fails to comply with the terms and conditions of said notice within the time
specified or such extended period of time, the Department may revoke or suspend
such license.
(1960 Code, § 19-1-6) (Ord. 5170, passed 12-6-1993)
§ 156.25 PERMIT, DISPLAY OF PERMIT AND LICENSE TRANSFER.
   No person, firm or corporation shall construct a mobile home park without
first obtaining a permit to do so in accordance with §
156.22 of this chapter. The permit to construct, license to operate and permit
to make alterations therein shall be kept on file in the office of the mobile
home park. All licenses issued under this chapter shall be non-transferable
without the written consent of the Department. The Department shall not
withhold such consent where the provisions of this chapter have been met.
(1960 Code, § 19-1-7) (Ord. 5170, passed 12-6-1993)
§ 156.26 SUPERVISION AND FACILITIES.
   Each mobile home park licensed or to be constructed under the provisions of
this chapter shall provide for the following in the manner hereinafter
specified.
   (A)   Supervision. Every mobile home park shall be managed by a responsible
individual, whose name, address and telephone number shall be on file at all
times with the Department, and whose duty it shall be to maintain the park, its
facilities and equipment in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition, and be
answerable, with the licensee, for any violation of the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Location and space. No mobile home park shall be so located that the
drainage of the park area will endanger any water supply. All such parks shall
be well drained. No waste water from mobile homes shall be deposited on the
surface of the ground.
   (C)   Water supply. An adequate supply of water of safe, sanitary quality,
approved by the Department shall be furnished at each mobile home park. The
water distribution system shall be designed and constructed to the requirements
of the Drinking Water Systems Code and the state’s Plumbing Code and shall be
installed and maintained by a licensed state plumber in accordance with the
Plumbing License Law. Each independent mobile home site shall be provided with
a cold water tap at least four inches above the ground and properly installed
in accordance with applicable codes.
   (D)   Disposal of sewage and other water-carried wastes.
      (1)   All sewage and other water-carried wastes shall be disposed of into
a public sewerage system whenever the interceptor or sewer main of such system
is adjacent to or within 200 feet of the park. In mobile home parks in which
such connections are not available, disposal shall be into an approved private
sewage disposal system which includes a sanitary means of disposal, the
operation of which creates neither a nuisance, nor a menace, to health.
      (2)   When a water carriage system of sewage is used, each mobile home
site shall be provided with a sewer connection for the combined liquid waste
outlet or outlets of each mobile home, and trapped below the frost line. It
shall be the duty of the owner or operator of said mobile home park to provide
an approved type of water- and odor-tight connection, and it shall be the duty
of said owner or operator to make such connection and keep all occupied mobile
homes connected to said sewer while located in a mobile home park. Sewer
connections in unoccupied mobile home sites shall be so closed that they will
emit no odors or cause a breeding place for flies, and shall be in full
compliance with all federal, state and city codes, regulations and ordinances.
No water or waste shall be allowed to fall on the ground from the mobile home.
   (E)   Garbage and rubbish storage and disposal.
      (1)   A sufficient number of adequate fly-proof and water-tight
containers shall be supplied for the storage of garbage, in accordance with
standards of the Department.
      (2)   Garbage containers shall be emptied at least once a week and shall
not be filled to overflowing, or allowed to become foul smelling, or a breeding
place for flies.
      (3)   Garbage and rubbish shall be disposed of in a manner which creates
neither a nuisance nor a menace to health and which is approved by the
Department. Exterior premises shall be kept free from accumulation of trash and
debris.
      (4)   Adequate insect and rodent control measures shall be employed. All
buildings shall be fly-and-rodent-proof, and rodent harborages shall not be
permitted to exist in the park.
   (F)   Central cooking and eating facilities. When community kitchens and
dining rooms are provided, such facilities and equipment as are supplied must
be maintained in a sanitary condition and kept in good repair.
   (G)   Electrical outlets.
      (1)   Electrical outlets for each individual mobile home site shall be
provided and the installation shall be in compliance with all state and city
electrical codes and ordinances. Each mobile home shall have its electrical
service wires inspected by the City Electrical Inspector at the time it is
connected to the power supply and a city electrical permit is required before
hook-up is made. It shall be the responsibility of both the mobile home park
owner and the owner of the individual mobile home to see that a city electrical
permit is obtained for each mobile home.
      (2)   It is further provided that service feeders from pole or pedestal
are to be run in rigid conduit 18 inches below ground level to a point under a
mobile home and below a mobile home lighting panel to a 12-inch by 12-inch by
six-inch junction box and from this point, flexible conduit is to be used to
the lighting panel in a mobile home.
   (H)   Fire protection. Mobile homes in mobile home parks shall each be
equipped with fire extinguishers in working order, one in each end of the
mobile home. Each fire extinguisher shall be periodically examined and kept at
all times in a condition for use.
   (I)   Porches and canopies. Temporary porches and canvas-roofed canopies are
permitted for mobile homes, and auxiliary rooms may also be authorized by
regulation of the Department if constructed of fire-resistant materials of such
specifications as shall be required by such regulations.
   (J)   Skirting of perimeter. The base of each mobile home along the
perimeter shall be completely enclosed with either commercial skirting,
mortared brick or mortared concrete block in a manner as approved by the
Department. The skirting shall be installed to allow proper ventilation and be
equipped with an access panel of suitable size to enable inspection.
   (K)   Building Code applicable. All buildings constructed or altered, all
plumbing and all electrical and heating installations shall be in accordance
with city building ordinances and the rules and regulations of the Department.
   (L)   Foundations. Each mobile home in a mobile home park shall be situated
on a permanent foundation, consisting of either piers, a solid slab or runners.
      (1)   Concrete piers. The minimum size required per pier is two feet by
two feet by two feet. The distance from center of pier to center of pier shall
not exceed ten feet.
      (2)   Concrete slab. The minimum depth of a solid slab is six inches. A
frost wall, six inches wide by 16 inches deep, shall be constructed around the
perimeter when a solid slab foundation is used.
      (3)   Concrete runners. Runners shall be at least three feet wide by
eight inches deep. Runners shall be placed beneath the center of the “I-beams”.
There shall be two “I-beams” on single wides, four on double wides and six on
triple wides.
   (M)   Tiedowns. Each mobile home in a mobile home park shall be tied down in
accordance with the state’s Mobile Home Tiedown Act, 210 ILCS 120/1 et seq., in
at least six places with three places on each length side of the mobile home.
Looped reinforcing rods or eye bolts shall be placed in concrete piers for
anchoring.
   (N)   Animal control. No cats, dogs or other animals shall be permitted to
run at large within a mobile home park and it is the responsibility of the
mobile home park owner to maintain an adequate system of animal control within
the mobile home park.
(1960 Code, § 19-1-8) (Ord. 5170, passed 12-6-1993)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 210 ILCS 120/1 to 120/7
§ 156.27 INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOMES.
   In no event shall a dependent mobile home, or non-permanent shelter or other
vehicle designed or used for sleeping purposes, other than an independent
mobile home, be permitted for occupancy at any time in a mobile home park.
(1960 Code, § 19-1-9) (Ord. 5170, passed 12-6-1993)
§ 156.28 APPROVAL OF APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   When the Department has approved an application for a permit to
construct or make alterations upon a mobile home park or the appurtenances
thereto or a license to operate and maintain the same, it shall retain the
original and keep a file thereof, and one copy shall be returned to the
applicant or his or her agent, and one copy to the City Clerk. No permit shall
be issued unless the fees as required for the license or renewal have been paid
in full.
   (B)   The Department shall draft and supply all forms and blanks and specify
the number and detail necessary to obtain permits to construct or make
alterations upon mobile home parks and for a license to operate and maintain
such a park according to this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 19-1-10) (Ord. 5170, passed 12-6-1993)
§ 156.29 RECORDS.
   (A)   The Department shall keep a record of all mobile home parks. The
records shall show the names and addresses of all mobile home parks, names and
addresses of the licensees, number of mobile home lots in each park, source of
water supply, system of sewage and garbage disposal and any other information
deemed essential by the Department.
   (B)   The Department shall supply licensees of all mobile home parks with
all health rules and regulations pertaining thereto made by the city, and any
changes that may be made from time to time, which rules shall be kept posted by
the management in a protected, conspicuous place within the mobile home park.
(1960 Code, § 19-1-11) (Ord. 5170, passed 12-6-1993)
§ 156.30 REGULATIONS.
   The following provisions are applicable to mobile home parks licensed under
the provisions of this chapter.
   (A)   Streets and driveways. All streets and driveways in every mobile home
park must be maintained in a passable and dust-proof condition at all times.
The mobile home park site shall be direct access to a public street or highway
by accessway of at least 30 feet in width. The design and construction of all
streets shall comply with specifications and standards of the City Engineer’s
office. Each mobile home space shall abut on a driveway or accessway at least
24 feet wide with unobstructed access to a public street. Each mobile home
space shall be located within 100 feet of such driveway or accessway.
Appropriate turn-around space sufficient in size to accommodate emergency
vehicles shall be provided at the terminus of any dead-end accessways in the
mobile home park.
   (B)   Sanitary and safety appliance. The management of every mobile home
park shall assume full responsibility for maintaining in good repair and
condition all sanitary and safety appliances on said park.
   (C)   Mobile home sites and spacing. All existing mobile home parks
constructed before 10-18-1993 shall not be required to meet the specific zoning
provisions and regulations as specified in §
162.215 of this code of ordinances with regard to minimum lot size, minimum
yard dimensions and minimum area for individual mobile home spaces. The
following requirements however for such existing mobile home parks shall be
complied with.
      (1)   Each mobile home space shall have a minimum area of 2,100 square
feet.
      (2)   No mobile home shall be parked or permanently erected closer than
five feet to the side lot lines of a park, or closer than ten feet to a public
street, alley or building. Each individual site/space shall abut or face on a
private or public driveway or roadway. There shall be an open space of at least
ten feet adjacent to the sides of every mobile home and at least five feet
adjacent to the ends of every mobile home.
      (3)   All mobile home sites, irrespective of shape, shall have a minimum
frontage of 25 linear feet.
(1960 Code, § 19-1-12) (Ord. 5170, passed 12-6-1993; Ord. 5429, passed 5-15-
1995)
§ 156.31 MOBILE HOME PARK REGISTER.
   (A)   A register shall be maintained by the manager, caretaker or designated
operator of each mobile home park. Such register shall include the name and
address of the owner of each mobile home and every occupant of such mobile home
and the square feet of floor space contained in such mobile home and the date
of entry of such mobile home into the park.
   (B)   The above mentioned register shall be signed by an occupant of the
mobile home. Any person furnishing misinformation for purposes of registration
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and punishable under this chapter for
such offense. The registration records shall be neatly and securely maintained
and no registration records shall be destroyed until six years have elapsed
following the date of registration. The register shall be available at all
times for inspection by law enforcement officers and by the Department.
   (C)   The manager, caretaker or designated operator shall not lease, rent or
allow occupancy of any mobile home within the mobile home park until such time
the occupant(s) obtains a certificate of occupancy from the Department.
(1960 Code, § 19-1-13) (Ord. 5170, passed 12-6-1993; Ord. 5218, passed 2-7-
1994)
§ 156.32 INSPECTION AND VISITATION.
   The governing body of the school district in which such mobile home park is
located, by and through its officers, attendance officers and proper employees,
may inspect and visit a mobile home park for the purposes of examining the
register with reference to children of school age for the purpose of enforcing
attendance of school children housed in the mobile home park.
(1960 Code, § 19-1-14) (Ord. 5170, passed 12-6-1993)
§ 156.33 ENFORCEMENT, INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter and the
rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto affecting health, sanitation,
water supply, sewage, garbage and waste disposal, and the Department shall
personally inspect, at least once each year, each mobile home park and all the
accommodations and facilities connected therewith; such officials or officers
are hereby granted the power and authority to enter upon the premises of such
mobile home park at any time for the purposes herein set forth.
   (B)   The Department may issue rules and regulations to carry out the
provisions of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 19-1-15) (Ord. 5170, passed 12-6-1993)
§ 156.34 HEARINGS.
   Any person refused a permit to construct or alter a mobile home park or a
license, or whose license is suspended or revoked, shall have the right to a
hearing before the City Council in accordance with §
156.22 of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 19-1-16) (Ord. 5170, passed 12-6-1993)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less than
$100 and no more than $500. Each day’s violation shall constitute a separate
offense. In addition to the fines herein set forth, and to other remedies
provided in this chapter, an action for injunction may be brought to restrain
such violation or to enjoin the operation of any such mobile home park.
(1960 Code, § 19-1-17) (Ord. 5170, passed 12-6-1993)
CHAPTER 157: FLOODPLAINS
Section
   
157.01   Purpose
   
157.02   Definitions
   
157.03   Base flood elevation
   
157.04   Variances
   
157.05   Disclaimer of liability
   
157.06   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
157.07   Zoning Administrator; duties
   
157.08   Development permit
   
157.09   Preventing increased flood heights and resulting damages
   
157.10   Protecting buildings
   
157.11   Subdivision requirements
   
157.12   Public health and other standards
 
   
157.99   Penalty
§ 157.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the city by
Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8 and
5/11-31-2) in order to accomplish the following purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
   (C)   To promote and protect the public health, safety and general welfare
of the citizens from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (F)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (G)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development.
(1960 Code, § 15-1-1) (Ord. 6591, passed 11-3-2003)
§ 157.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year. The BASE FLOOD is also known as the 100-YEAR FLOOD. The base
flood elevation at any location is as defined in §
157.03 of this chapter.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation in relation to mean sea level of
the crest of the base flood.
   BUILDING. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof, including manufactured homes, prefabricated buildings and gas
or liquid storage tanks. The term also includes recreational vehicles and
travel trailers installed on a site for more than 180 days per year.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Any public or private facility which, if flooded, would
create an added dimension to the disaster or would increase the hazard to life
and health. Examples are public buildings, emergency operations and
communication centers, health care facilities and nursing homes, schools and
toxic waste treatment, handling or storage facilities.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
         (a)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building or any structural alteration to a building;
         (b)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
         (c)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site
for a manufactured home or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than
180 days per year;
         (d)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
culverts or similar projects;
         (e)   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls or fences;
         (f)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving
or other alterations of the ground surface;
         (g)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks; and
         (h)   Channel modifications or any other activity that might change
the direction, height or velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include routine maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities; resurfacing roads; or gardening, plowing and similar
practices that do not involve filling, grading or construction of levees.
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation or the run-off of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. A map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a
community. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
   FLOODPLAIN or SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Are synonymous. Those lands
within the jurisdiction of the city that are subject to inundation by the base
flood. The floodplains of the city are generally identified as such on the
county-wide Flood Insurance Rate Map of St. Clair County, prepared by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated 11-5-2003. FLOODPLAIN also
includes those areas of known flooding as identified by the community.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural or non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
   FLOOD-PROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form published by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry flood-proofed to the flood protection
elevation.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION or FPE. The elevation of the base flood, plus one
foot of freeboard at any given location in the floodplain.
   FLOODWAY. The portion of the floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. The FLOODWAY for the floodplains of Catawba Creek and Richland
Creek shall be as delineated on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of St.
Clair County, prepared by FEMA and dated 11-5-2003. The FLOODWAYS for each of
the remaining floodplains of the city shall be according to the best data
available from federal, state or other sources.
   IDNR/OWR. Illinois Department of Natural Resources/Office of Water
Resources.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, that
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   NFIP. National Flood Insurance Program.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SFHA. See definition of FLOODPLAIN.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred
regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and materials must
be included in this determination.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure before the improvement or repair is started.
      (2)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building
commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of
the structure. The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the state’s Register of Historic Places.
   TRAVEL TRAILER or RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less in size;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
(1960 Code, § 15-1-2) (Ord. 6591, passed 11-3-2003)
§ 157.03 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   (A)   This chapter’s protection standard is the base flood. The best
available base flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the
best available data, the party shall finance the detailed engineering study
needed to replace existing data with better data and submit it to the FEMA and
IDNR/OWR for approval prior to any development of the site.
   (B)   The base flood elevation of the floodplains of the Catawba Creek and
Richland Creek within the city shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood
profiles in the countywide Flood Insurance Study of St. Clair County, prepared
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated 11-5-2003.
   (C)   The base flood elevation for each floodplain within the city that is
delineated as an “AH Zone” or “AO Zone” shall be that elevation (or depth)
delineated on the countywide Flood Insurance Rate Map of St. Clair County and
dated 11-5-2003.
   (D)   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining floodplains within
the city that is delineated as an “A Zone” on the countywide Flood Insurance
Rate Map of St. Clair County shall be according to the best data available from
federal, state or other sources. Should no other data exist, an engineering
study must be financed to determine base flood elevations.
   (E)   The base flood elevation for the floodplains of those parts of the
unincorporated county that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the
city, or that may be annexed into the city, shall be as delineated on the 100-
year flood profiles of the countywide Flood Insurance Study of St. Clair
County, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated 11-5-
2003.
(1960 Code, § 15-1-3) (Ord. 6591, passed 11-3-2003)
§ 157.04 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a
specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Zoning Board of
Appeals for a variance. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall review the
applicant’s request for a variance and shall submit its recommendations to the
City Council. The City Council may attach such conditions to granting of a
variance as it deems necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   (B)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that
all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain;
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health or safety or
creation of a nuisance;
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing or repairs to roads, utilities or other
public facilities;
      (6)   The applicant’s circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP; and
      (7)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained.
   (C)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall notify an applicant in writing that
a variance from the requirements of the building protection standards of §
157.10 of this chapter that would lessen the degree of protection to a building
will:
      (1)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per
$100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Increase the risks to life and property; and
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing that the assumption of the risk
and liability.
   (D)   Variances to the building protection requirements of §
157.10 of this chapter requested in connection with the reconstruction, repair
or alteration of a site or building included on the National Register of
Historic Places or the state’s Register of Historic Places may be granted using
criteria more permissive than the requirements of §
157.12(A)(1) through (A)(5) of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 15-1-10) (Ord. 6591, passed 11-3-2003)
§ 157.05 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the city or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that results
from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made
lawfully thereunder.
(1960 Code, § 15-1-11) (Ord. 6591, passed 11-3-2003)
§ 157.06 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the City
Council to fulfill the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program
including: Ord. 6262 (1-17-2001). However, this chapter does not repeal the
original resolution or ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility in the Program.
Nor does this chapter repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements,
covenants or deed restrictions. Where this chapter and other ordinance
easements, covenants or deed restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever
imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(1960 Code, § 15-1-13) (Ord. 6591, passed 11-3-2003)
§ 157.07 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for the general
administration of this chapter and ensure that all development activities
within the floodplains under the jurisdiction of the city meet the requirements
of this chapter.
   (B)   Specifically, the Zoning Administrator shall:
      (1)   Process development permits in accordance with §
157.08 of this chapter;
      (2)   Ensure that all development in a floodway (or a floodplain with no
delineated floodway) meets the damage prevention requirements of §
157.09 of this chapter;
      (3)   Ensure that the building protection requirements for all buildings
subject to §
157.10 of this chapter are met and maintain a record of the “as-built”
elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) or flood-proof certificate;
      (4)   Assure that all subdivisions and annexations meet the requirements
of §
157.11 of this chapter;
      (5)   Ensure that water supply and waste disposal systems meet the Public
Health standards of §
157.12 of this chapter;
      (6)   If a variance is requested, ensure that the requirements of §
157.04 of this chapter are met and maintain documentation of any variances
granted;
      (7)   Inspect all development projects and take any and all actions
outlined in §
157.99 of this chapter as necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter;
      (8)   Assure that applicants are aware of and obtain any and all other
required local, state and federal permits;
      (9)   Notify IDNR/OWR and any neighboring communities prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse;
      (10)   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques;
      (11)   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
coordinate base flood data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
      (12)   Maintain for public inspection base flood data, floodplain maps,
copies of state and federal permits and documentation of compliance for
development activities subject to this chapter;
      (13)   Perform site inspections to ensure compliance with this chapter
and make substantial damage determinations for structures within the
floodplain; and
      (14)   Maintain the accuracy of floodplain maps including notifying IDNR/
OWR and/or submitting information to FEMA within six months whenever a
modification of the floodplain may change the base flood elevation or result in
a change to the floodplain map.
(1960 Code, § 15-1-4) (Ord. 6591, passed 11-3-2003)
§ 157.08 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation or governmental body not exempted by law
shall commence any development in the floodplain without first obtaining a
development permit from the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator
shall not issue a development permit if the proposed development does not meet
the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The application for development permit shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line
dimensions;
      (2)   Existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from
excavation or filling;
      (3)   The location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings;
      (4)   The elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of §
157.10 of this chapter; and
      (5)   Cost of project or improvements as estimated by a licensed engineer
or architect. A signed estimate by a contractor may also meet this requirement.
   (C)   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the Zoning
Administrator shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood
elevation. Any development located on land that can be shown by survey data to
be higher than the current base flood elevation and which has not been filled
after the date of the site’s first Flood Insurance Rate Map is not in the
floodplain and therefore not subject to the requirements of this chapter.
Conversely, any development located on land shown to be below the base flood
elevation and hydraulically connected, but not shown on the current Flood
Insurance Rate Map is subject to the provisions of this chapter. The Zoning
Administrator shall maintain documentation of the existing ground elevation at
the development site and certification that this ground elevation existed prior
to the date of the site’s first Flood Insurance Rate Map identification.
(1960 Code, § 15-1-5) (Ord. 6591, passed 11-3-2003)
§ 157.09 PREVENTING INCREASED FLOOD HEIGHTS AND RESULTING DAMAGES.
   Within the floodway identified on the county-wide Flood Insurance Rate Map,
and within all other floodplains where a floodway has not been delineated, the
following standards shall apply.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no development shall be
allowed which, acting in combination with existing and anticipated development,
will cause any increase in the flood heights or velocities or threat to public
health and safety. The following specific development activities shall be
considered as meeting this requirement:
      (1)   Barge fleeting facilities meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 3;
      (2)   Aerial utility crossings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 4;
      (3)   Minor boat docks meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide
Permit No. 5;
      (4)   Minor, non-obstructive activities meeting the conditions of IDNR/
OWR Statewide Permit No. 6;
      (5)   Outfall structures and drainage ditch outlets meeting the
conditions of Statewide Permit No. 7;
      (6)   Underground pipeline and utility crossings meeting the conditions
of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 8;
      (7)   Bank stabilization projects meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR
Statewide Permit No. 9;
      (8)   Accessory structures and additions to existing residential
buildings meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 10;
      (9)   Minor maintenance dredging activities meeting the conditions of
IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 11;
      (10)   Bridge and culvert replacement structures and bridge widenings
meeting the conditions of IDNR/OWR Statewide Permit No. 12;
      (11)   Temporary construction activities meeting the conditions of IDNR/
OWR Statewide Permit No. 13; and
      (12)   Any development determined by IDNR/OWR to be located entirely in a
flood fringe area.
   (B)   Other development activities not listed in division (A) above may be
permitted only if:
      (1)   A permit has been issued for the work by IDNR/OWR (or written
documentation is provided that an IDNR/OWR permit is not required); and
      (2)   Sufficient data has been provided to FEMA when necessary, and
approval obtained from FEMA for a revision of the regulatory map and base flood
elevation.
(1960 Code, § 15-1-6) (Ord. 6591, passed 11-3-2003)
§ 157.10 PROTECTING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of §
157.09 of this chapter, all buildings to be located in the floodplain shall be
protected from flood damage below the flood protection elevation. This building
protection requirement applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of a new building valued at more than
$1,000 or 70 square feet;
      (2)   Substantial improvements made to an existing building. This
alteration shall be figured cumulatively beginning with any alteration which
has taken place subsequent to the adoption of this chapter;
      (3)   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively beginning with any repairs which have taken place
subsequent to the adoption of this chapter;
      (4)   Structural alterations made to an existing building that increase
the floor area by more than 20%;
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site (the building protection requirements do not apply to
returning a manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it
was removed to avoid flood damage);
      (6)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days per year; and
      (7)   Repetitive loss to an existing building, as defined in §
157.02 of this chapter.
   (B)   Residential or non-residential buildings can meet the building
protection requirements by one of the following methods:
      (1)   The building may be constructed on permanent landfill in accordance
with the following:
         (a)   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
flood protection elevation;
         (b)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
before compaction and should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation
before sloping below the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, rip rap or other structural measure;
         (d)   The fill shall be composed or rock or soil and not incorporate
debris or refuse materials; and
         (e)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties and, when necessary, storm water management
techniques such as swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      (2)   The building may be elevated in accordance with the following:
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on stilts, piles,
walls or other foundation that is permanently open to flood waters;
         (b)   The lowest floor and all electrical, heating, ventilating,
plumbing and air conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at
or above the flood protection elevation;
         (c)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the flood protection
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of flood waters. Designs must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or by having a minimum of one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot above grade. The openings shall provide a total net
area of not less than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed
area subject to flooding below the base flood elevation;
         (d)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored,
designed and certified so as to minimize exposure to hydrodynamic forces such
as current, waves, ice and floating debris;
         (e)   The finished interior grade shall not be less than the finished
exterior grade;
         (f)   All structural components below the flood protection elevation
shall be constructed of materials resistant to flood damage;
         (g)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps and other service facilities may be located below the flood
protection elevation; provided, they are water-proofed; and
         (h)   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space.
   (C)   Manufactured homes, or travel trailers to be permanently installed on
a site, shall be:
      (1)   Elevated to or above the flood protection elevation; and
      (2)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement by being
tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the state’s Mobile
Home Tie-Down Act issued pursuant to 210 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
   (D)   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than 180
days shall meet the elevation requirements of division (C) above unless the
following conditions are met.
      (1)   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light-
duty truck. The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times.
      (2)   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches.
      (3)   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping, travel
or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling.
      (4)   The vehicles largest horizontal projections must be no longer than
400 square feet.
      (5)   The vehicle’s wheels must remain on axles and inflated.
      (6)   Air-conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement out of the floodplain.
      (7)   Propane tanks, electrical and sewage connections must be quick-
disconnect and above the 100-year flood elevation.
      (8)   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle
or park model.
      (9)   The vehicle must be either entirely supported by jacks rather than
blocks or have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires touching the
ground, and be supported by blocks in a manner that will allow the blocks to be
easily removed by use of the hitch jack.
   (E)   Non-residential buildings may be structurally dry flood-proofed (in
lieu of elevation); provided, a registered professional engineer or architect
certifies that:
      (1)   Below the flood protection elevation the structure and attendant
utility facilities are water- tight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood;
      (2)   The building design accounts for flood velocities, duration, rate
of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of buoyancy and the
impact from debris and ice; and
      (3)   Flood-proofing measures will be incorporated into the building
design and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity. Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
flood-proofing for the purpose of this section.
   (F)   Garages or sheds constructed ancillary to a residential use may be
permitted, provided the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The garage or shed must be non-habitable.
      (2)   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles
and tools and cannot be modified later into another use.
      (3)   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway.
      (4)   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and be accessory
to an existing principal structure on the same lot.
      (5)   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built of
materials not susceptible to flood damage.
      (6)   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation.
      (7)   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on each
wall no more than one foot above grade with one square inch of opening for
every one square foot of floor area.
      (8)   The garage or shed must be less than $7,500 in market value or
replacement cost whichever is greater or less than 500 square feet.
      (9)   The structure shall be anchored to resist flotation and
overturning.
      (10)   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers and the like) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation.
      (11)   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications.
      (12)   The garage or shed must be otherwise compliant with the
requirements for accessory uses as set forth in §§
162.034,
162.035 and
162.036 of the City Zoning Code.
   (G)   A building may be constructed with a crawlspace located below the
flood protection elevation; provided that, the following conditions are met.
 
      (1)   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
 
      (2)   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall have
openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of flood waters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot above grade.
 
      (3)   The interior grade of the crawlspace below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet below the lowest adjacent exterior
grade.
 
      (4)   The interior height of the crawlspace measured from the interior
grade of the crawl to the top of the foundation wall must not exceed four feet
at any point.
 
      (5)   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove flood
waters from the interior area of the crawlspace within a reasonable period of
time after a flood event.
 
      (6)   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation must
be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage.
 
      (7)   Utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation.
(1960 Code, §15-1-7) (Ord. 6591, passed 11-3-2003; Ord. 8253-2018, passed 10-1-
2018)
 
§ 157.11 SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The City Council shall take into account flood hazards, to the extent
that they are known, in all official actions related to land management, use
and development.
   (B)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the damage prevention and building protection standards
of §§
157.09 and
157.10 of this chapter. Any proposal for such development shall include the
following data:
      (1)   The base flood elevation and the boundary of the floodplain (where
the base flood elevation is not available from an existing study, the applicant
shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation);
      (2)   The boundary of the floodway when applicable; and
      (3)   A signed statement by a registered professional engineer that the
proposed plat or plan accounts for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the state’s Plat Act (765 ILCS 205/2).
(1960 Code, § 15-1-8) (Ord. 6591, passed 11-3-2003)
§ 157.12 PUBLIC HEALTH AND OTHER STANDARDS.
   (A)   Public health standards must be met for all floodplain development. In
addition to the requirements of §§
157.09 and
157.10 of this chapter, the following standards apply.
      (1)   No development in the floodplain shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood protection elevation unless
such materials are stored in a flood-proofed and anchored storage tank and
certified by a professional engineer or flood-proofed building constructed
according to the requirements of §
157.10 of this chapter.
      (2)   Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
      (3)   Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into flood waters.
      (4)   New and replacement on-site sanitary sewer lines or waste disposal
systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. Manholes or other above ground
openings located below the flood protection elevation shall be water-tight.
      (5)   Critical facilities shall be protected to the 500-year flood
elevation. In addition, all ingress and egress from any critical facility must
be protected to the 500-year flood elevation.
   (B)   All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as
not to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages.
(1960 Code, § 15-1-9) (Ord. 6591, passed 11-3-2003)
§ 157.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a permit for development in the floodplain or
failure to comply with the conditions of a permit or a variance shall be deemed
to be a violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the Zoning
Administrator may determine that a violation of the minimum standards of this
chapter exists. The Zoning Administrator shall notify the owner in writing of
such violation.
   (B)   (1)   If such owner fails, after ten days’ notice, to correct the
violation, the city may make application to the Circuit Court for an injunction
requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as the Court
deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter.
      (2)   Any person who violates this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined not less than $50, nor more than $500, for each offense.
      (3)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
      (4)   The city shall record a notice of violation on the title to the
property.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and theretofore
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(1960 Code, § 15-1-12) (Ord. 6591, passed 11-3-2003)
CHAPTER 158: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS; TREES
Section
General Provisions
   
158.001   Obstructing streets
   
158.002   Spitting
   
158.003   Water from eaves
   
158.004   Fires in streets
   
158.005   Games in streets
   
158.006   Vehicles on sidewalks
   
158.007   Removing coal
   
158.008   Digging in streets
   
158.009   Undermining streets
   
158.010   Cellar door
   
158.011   Stairway; railing
   
158.012   Vaults and grating
   
158.013   Insecure cellar doors and gratings
   
158.014   Open cellar doors
   
158.015   Liability of persons to city for damages
   
158.016   Snow in streets
   
158.017   Building materials in street
   
158.018   Merchandise on sidewalks; display; loading and unloading
   
158.019   Street soliciting
Street Excavations
   
158.030   Intent
   
158.031   Scope
   
158.032   Procedure
   
158.033   Excavation requirements
   
158.034   Responsibility
   
158.035   Notification
   
158.036   Fitness of applicant
   
158.037   Annual bond
   
158.038   Closing street
   
158.039   Obstructing work in streets
   
158.040   Barriers and lights
   
158.041   Lights on materials in street
   
158.042   Interference with barriers and lights
   
158.043   Registration for street excavation contractors
Street Grades
   
158.055   City datum established
   
158.056   Record of benches and elevations
   
158.057   Defacement of bench monuments
   
158.058   Grade ordinances
   
158.059   Street lines
House Numbering
   
158.070   Required
   
158.071   Numbering system
   
158.072   Assignment of numbers
   
158.073   Position
   
158.074   Change
   
158.075   New building
Tree Code
   
158.090   Title
   
158.091   Definitions
   
158.092   Urban Forest Director; powers and duties
   
158.093   (Reserved)
   
158.094   Urban Forest Management Plan adopted
   
158.095   General tree regulations
   
158.096   Assessment ordinance
   
158.097   Interference with Urban Forest Director or Director of Health,
Housing and Building
   
158.098   Review by City Council
Signs and Awnings
   
158.110   Signs across streets
   
158.111   Posts or awnings
   
158.112   Signs on poles
Fences
   
158.125   Barbed wire fences
   
158.126   Spite fences
   
158.127   Height
   
158.128   Electric fences
   
158.129   Snow fences
   
158.130   Material
   
158.131   Fence maintenance
Street Lights and Fire Hydrants
   
158.140   Street lights; location, spacing and lumens
   
158.141   Exceptions; lumens
   
158.142   Historic district designation lighting policy
   
158.143   Request procedure
   
158.144   Appeals procedure
   
158.145   Fire hydrants; appeals
 
   
158.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Recommended Trees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 158.001 OBSTRUCTING STREETS.
   (A)   No person shall place or cause to be placed or erected on any public
ground, or in any public street, alley or sidewalk in the city, any debris,
materials or obstructions, except as may be permitted by this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Street Superintendent or his or her
designated representative to exercise a vigilant supervision over such places,
and to notify any person found making such deposit, or responsible for the
same, to remove the offending matter at once.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-1) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.002 SPITTING.
   No person shall spit upon any public sidewalk, or in and upon the floor of
any public place or building, within the city.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-2) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.003 WATER FROM EAVES.
   No person owning or occupying any building in the city shall cause pipes
conducting the water from the eaves of the building to be so constructed as to
spread the water over the sidewalk.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-3) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.004 FIRES IN STREETS.
   No person shall burn any leaves or rubbish or create any other fire on any
street, sidewalk or alley in the city.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-4) (Ord. 6686, passed 10-18-2004) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.005 GAMES IN STREETS.
   No person shall play baseball or any game in the roadway of any street.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-5) (Ord. 56, passed - -) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.006 VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall operate any wagon, sled or vehicle over any sidewalk, except
in crossing the same to go into a yard or lot.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-6) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.007 REMOVING COAL.
   No person shall dig, mine or remove coal or stone from or under any street,
alley or public grounds belonging to the city.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-7) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.008 DIGGING IN STREETS.
   No person shall, in the city, without permission of the Mayor in writing,
dig up or haul away any ground from or make any alteration in or upon any
street or other public place.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-8) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.009 UNDERMINING STREETS.
   No person shall undermine in any manner, any street, alley or any other
ground or real estate situated in the city, belonging to the city or to any
private person.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-9) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.010 CELLAR DOOR.
   No cellar door shall be built above the level of the sidewalk or pavement.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-10) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.011 STAIRWAY; RAILING.
   No steps or stairway leading into any building shall extend from the wall of
such building onto any pavement or sidewalk more than two feet; nor shall any
passage from any cellar extend more than two feet upon the pavement or
sidewalk; and, in such case, the person making or causing to be made such
passage shall erect a railing on the side of the same towards the street to
prevent persons from falling into same.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-11) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.012 VAULTS AND GRATING.
   Any person who shall in the city, dig or cause to be dug, in any street or
sidewalk, any vault, shall arch or cover the same over, and secure the grating
or covering of the opening thereof in such a manner as to prevent persons,
animals and vehicles from falling into the same.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-12) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.013 INSECURE CELLAR DOORS AND GRATINGS.
   No person shall suffer any cellar door or the grating of any vault belonging
to premises occupied by him or her on any street, alley or sidewalk in the
city, to be or remain in an insecure condition, whereby passers-by may be in
danger of falling into any cellar or vault.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-13) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.014 OPEN CELLAR DOORS.
   No person shall open, or suffer to remain open any cellar door, or the
grating of any vault belonging to premises occupied by him or her on any
street, alley or sidewalk in the city, for any purpose, except the purpose of
taking in and removing goods or other articles; and any person or persons
suffering such door or grating to remain open shall have a person stationed at
such door or grating during the time such door or grating may remain open for
the purpose of warning passers-by of the open condition of the door or grating.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-14) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.015 LIABILITY OF PERSONS TO CITY FOR DAMAGES.
   If any person violates any provision of §§
158.011 through 158.014 of this chapter, and any person or property in
consequence thereof is injured or damaged, and the city shall be legally
required to pay for such injury or damage, the person so guilty of such
violation shall be liable to the city in a civil action for all such damages
and all reasonable costs incurred by the city in relation thereto, and no
prosecution or other proceeding by the city of such person for any penalty
imposed for a violation shall constitute a bar to such action by the city for
such damages.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-15)
§ 158.016 SNOW IN STREETS.
   (A)   No person shall dispose of any snow, leaves or grass from private
property by transferring such snow, leaves or grass to the streets of the city.
   (B)   The city shall remove snow accumulation from the following private
streets within the corporate city limits and no other: Elmwood Drive, Linda
Vista, Pleasant Hill Drive, Voss Place, Notre Dame Hills, South 21st Street and
the 400 block of South 8th Street.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-16) (Ord. 6806, passed 12-19-2005) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.017 BUILDING MATERIALS IN STREET.
   The Superintendent of Streets may move any obstruction on any street or
sidewalk of the city, but, before doing so, he or she shall notify the person
responsible therefor to remove such obstruction within a reasonable time after
being so notified. Any person engaged in erecting a building or fence or
improving any lot on such street may deposit materials thereon and contiguous
to such lot for such length of time as may be necessary for the work. The
obstruction shall not extend to more than one-half of the width of the
sidewalk, street or alley adjacent to such improvement and the gutter shall
always be left free and unobstructed. Such person shall, at night, keep a red
light on such material.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-17) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.018 MERCHANDISE ON SIDEWALKS; DISPLAY; LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   (A)   No clothing, goods, wares, merchandise, signs, boxes or other article
or thing shall be placed in the front of any store, shop or other place in the
city, or on or above the sidewalk, or in or upon any alley, so as to occupy
more than two feet next to the buildings or premises on such sidewalk or alley,
or of the space above the sidewalk or alley. Any articles or things that may be
hung out or placed above the sidewalk, shall be so placed or hung that the
lowest point of such article or thing shall be at least eight feet above the
top of the sidewalk and shall not swing more than two feet from the building.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-18)
   (B)   No person receiving or delivering goods, wares or merchandise in the
city shall place or keep upon or suffer to be placed or kept upon any sidewalk,
any goods, wares or merchandise which he or she may be receiving or delivering
without leaving a passageway clear upon such sidewalk four feet wide for the
use of pedestrians. No person receiving or delivering such goods shall suffer
the same to be or remain on such sidewalk for a longer period than 24 hours. No
person shall have, place or allow to be on any sidewalk in front of any
premises owned or occupied by him or her, for a longer period than 24 hours,
any article, merchandise or empty containers.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-19)
Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.019 STREET SOLICITING.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to pass out materials or to solicit on any
street in the city.
(1960 Code, § 40-1-20) (Ord. 6821, passed 2-20-2006) Penalty, see §
158.999
STREET EXCAVATIONS
§ 158.030 INTENT.
   This subchapter is adopted for the purpose of protecting the city’s
investment in public streets and sidewalks and to improve the safety and
welfare of the public in general.
(1960 Code, § 40-2-1) (Ord. 7087, passed 2-19-2008)
§ 158.031 SCOPE.
   This subchapter shall apply to any person, individual, partnership,
business, company, firm, corporation, public utility and non-profit
organization, who makes or causes to be made openings, or excavations on any
public thoroughfare or sidewalk within the corporate limits of the city.
(1960 Code, § 40-2-2) (Ord. 7087, passed 2-19-2008)
§ 158.032 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All persons shall obtain a permit in writing for each and every
location prior to beginning an opening or excavation on any public thoroughfare
or sidewalk. Permits will be issued by the Building and Housing Office on a
printed form supplied by the city.
   (B)   The fee for permits within any public right-of-way shall be as
follows:
 
Commercial/industrial development      $100 each
Contractor working for the city        No charge
Driveway entrance construction         $20 each
Residential sanitary sewer connection  $25 each
Utility company main line installation $100 each
Utility company service and repairs    $10 each
 
   (C)   Any person or entity found working on right-of-way without a valid
permit, in addition to the provisions of §
158.999 of this chapter, shall pay double the cost of the permit.
(1960 Code, § 40-2-3) (Ord. 7087, passed 2-19-2008) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.033 EXCAVATION REQUIREMENTS.
   It will be necessary to follow the procedures as outlined below and all
applicable State Department of Transportation Standard Specifications when
opening, backfilling and patching excavations that are performed on city right-
of-way. In case of conflict, this notice shall take precedence. All article and
section references are to the current State Department of Transportation
Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, herein referred to as
IDOT Standard Specifications.
   (A)   Compaction of backfill material. Each excavation in or on a public
street, driving surface, curb and gutter or sidewalk, or within two feet of a
public street, driving surface, curb, gutter, curb and gutter, or sidewalk
shall be backfilled per § 208 of the IDOT Standard Specifications, except as
modified herein.
      (1)   Art. 208.02 “Materials” shall be changed to require the use of
coarse aggregate as specified in Art. 1004.04 of the IDOT Standard
Specifications, and that the coarse aggregate gradation shall be CA 6. Fine
aggregate will not be allowed for haunching and trench backfill.
      (2)   Haunching and trench backfill material shall be compacted in
according to Method 1, as specified in Art. 550.07 of the IDOT Standard
Specifications.
      (3)   Whenever the City Engineer has reasonable cause to believe that
backfilling for any excavation is not being done with acceptable materials or
is not being adequately compacted, the City Engineer will require tests to
determine whether or not the backfill material/compaction technique meets the
minimum requirements prescribed. All expense for such tests shall be borne by
the permittee.
   (B)   Benches, support. A 12-inch bench on all excavations in public
streets, driving surfaces and sidewalks is required. A one-foot ledge of
undisturbed earth on all four sides of the excavation shall be left to support
the pavement patch. The one-foot distance shall be measured from the edge of
the subgrade which is disturbed by the vertical excavation.
   (C)   Patches in pavement.
      (1)   All pavement to be patched must first be saw cut to the full depth
of the pavement. The removal of the pavement shall result in a vertical patch
face. If a non-vertical and/or rough face result from the removal process, the
permittee will be required to extend the patch to eliminate these problems.
      (2)   Patches in concrete pavement shall be placed equal to the thickness
of the adjacent pavement but in no case shall a concrete patch be less than
eight inches. Saw kerfs in concrete pavement to be filled and sealed with
either hot poured joint sealer or self leveling polyurethane sealer, limestone
color. Edges of all concrete pavement patches and any construction joints
within the patch, shall be tooled or sawn to provide an adequate reservoir for
joint sealer. Joints to be sealed in the same manner as saw kerfs. Patching
technique to be determined by existing pavement type per Art. 442.01, Class A,
B or C. All patch classes to be placed per § 442, Pavement Patching. All
concrete for concrete patches shall be a high early strength concrete capable
of reaching a compressive strength of 3,200 psi within 16 hours. A non-calcium
accelerator will be required in all cases. Opening the patch to traffic will be
according to Art. 701.17(3).
      (3)   Where excavations are made in concrete pavements, the pavement area
removed will also be controlled by the proximity of existing joints. If the
pavement area to be removed is one foot or less from a joint, the pavement
shall be removed to the existing joint. In no case, however, shall the one foot
distance required by division (B) above be disregarded. If in the removal of
pavement an expansion joint is damaged, or removed, it shall be replaced with
pre-molded asphaltic expansion joint one inch thick. Joint to be sealed per
Art. 420.05 and 420.12.iii
      (4)   Patches in oil and chip surfaces shall be eight-inch rock and
three-inch hot mix asphalt surface. All asphalt work shall be per §§ 355 and
406. With the permission of the Engineer, the permittee may use full depth
concrete; provided that, the concrete is dyed black with an approved concrete
dye.
      (5)   Patches in areas previously overlain with asphalt streets shall be
replaced as follows.
         (a)   Asphalt overlays shall have an asphalt surface equal to the
thickness of the existing blacktop surface placed on a concrete base course.
The concrete base course shall be the thickness of the original concrete, but
not less than eight inches. All asphalt work shall be per §§ 355 and 406. With
the permission of the Engineer, the permittee may use full depth concrete
provided that the concrete is dyed black with an approved concrete dye. All
concrete for concrete base course shall be a high early strength concrete
capable of reaching a compressive strength of 3,200 psi within 16 hours. A non-
calcium accelerator will be required in all cases. Opening the patch to traffic
will be according to Article 701.17(3).
         (b)   All concrete patches and concrete base course will be tied to
the adjacent concrete pavement, curb, gutter and combination curb and gutter
with tie bars and dowel bars according to § 442 of the Standard Specification
and according to current versions of IDOT Standards 420701, 442001 and 442101
or the city’s standard for concrete patching. The Engineer will determine which
standard is applicable to the location to be patched prior to issuing a permit.
         (c)   Patches in asphalt streets shall match the existing pavement
structure, but in no case shall asphalt thickness be less than eight inches,
with six inches being base course and two inches surface course. Base course to
be per § 355. Surface course to be per § 406.
      (6)   Written notification shall be given the City Engineer 48 hours
prior to pouring or placing any permanent street patches.
      (7)   Temporary patches for the convenience of traffic movement must be
placed. They shall be made with a good quality of bituminous patching material
properly placed, thoroughly rolled to optimum compaction and of sufficient
thickness to bear the type of traffic using the street. The individual or
company holding the excavation permit shall be responsible to insure that the
temporary patch is properly maintained. Temporary patching may not be left in
place longer than 14 days. After removal of the temporary patch and prior to
placing the permanent repair, the aggregate sub base shall be re-graded and re-
compacted. Under no circumstances may aggregate be used for a temporary driving
surface.
      (8)   Any pavement markings and/or raised reflective pavement markers
that are removed with the patch shall be replaced with material of the same
type as the material removed. Pavement markings shall be installed according to
§ 780 of the Standard Specifications. Raised reflective pavement markers shall
be installed according to § 781 of the Standard Specifications.
   (D)   Sidewalk replacement.
      (1)   Sidewalk shall be sawn full depth at nearest joint. (See IDOT
Article 424.07 for placement of expansion.)
      (2)   Where sidewalks are perpendicular to curb, or parallel and
restricted on side opposite curb, a one-inch preformed expansion joint filler
shall be inserted by curb before sidewalk replacement.
      (3)   Expansion joint filler shall be equal to “Homex-Plus” with bond
breaker.
      (4)   After removal of top filler, expansion joint shall be sealed with
polyurethane sealant, limestone color, equal to “Sonolastic” SL1 or SL2.
      (5)   Where street signs occur in sidewalk to be replaced, a four-inch
diameter plastic pipe shall be placed centered on sign, full depth of sidewalk.
Void around post shall be filled with cold patch and compacted.
      (6)   Where meter posts occur in sidewalk to be replaced, poles shall be
isolated in a one-foot by one-foot square with expansion joint on square’s
perimeter. Pole shall have a minimum one-foot diameter by one-foot deep
foundation poured around it below bottom of sidewalk grade.
   (E)   Curb, gutter and combination curb and gutter patches.
      (1)   Curbs, gutters and combination curb and gutter are to be cut full
depth and full width and carefully removed as to ensure a vertical edge.
      (2)   Where a patch occurs at a pavement expansion joint or no existing
expansion device is within 50 feet of patch, a one-inch thick preformed
expansion joint filler, cut to curb cross section shall be inserted and a one
and one-quarter inch diameter, 18 inches long, smooth coated dowel bar, greased
or fitted with endcap providing a minimum of one-inch expansion be installed.
The curb, gutter and combination curb and gutter shall be tied to adjacent
concrete pavement or concrete base course according to the current version of
IDOT Standard 606001.
      (3)   Expansion fillers shall be equal to “Homex-Plus” with bond breaker.
      (4)   After removal of top filler strips expansion joints shall be sealed
with polyurethane sealer, limestone color equal to “Sonolastic”.
      (5)   Saw kerfs resulting from cutting operation will be remedied as in
division (C)(2) above.
      (6)   Requirements of the state’s Accessibility Code shall be adhered to
at all times. If a ramp is built on one corner another shall be built on
opposite corner. Ramps shall be constructed per IDOT Standard 2356-2.
   (F)   Traffic control.
      (1)   All excavation areas shall be properly barricaded and lighted for
the protection of the general public.
      (2)   The individual or company holding the excavation permit shall be
responsible to ensure that traffic control is maintained per applicable IDOT
standards.
   (G)   Brick surfaces. Notwithstanding the previous portions of this notice,
where excavations are made in brick surfaces, the surface shall be replaced
with brick or an approved concrete stamp with the same color and texture.
Restoration techniques shall be those prescribed by the City Engineer.
   (H)   Clean up. As the excavation work progresses, all streets shall be
thoroughly cleaned of all rubbish, excess earth, rock and other debris
resulting from such work. All clean up operations at the location of such
excavation shall be accomplished at the expense of the permittee and shall be
completed to the satisfaction of the City Engineer. From time to time as
needed, and in any event immediately after completion of said work, the
permittee shall, at his or her own expense, clean up and remove all refuse and
unused materials of any kind resulting from said work. Failure to do so within
24 hours after having been notified by the City Engineer, will result in the
City Engineer having the work done and the cost thereof charged to the
permittee.
   (I)   Lawn restoration. At locations where it is necessary to excavate in
lawns that are in public right-of-way the persons making the excavation will
complete the restoration in the following manner.
      (1)   Backfill. Excavation shall be backfilled within 12 inches of final
grade as per compaction of backfill material. The final 12 inches shall be of
compacted top soil.
      (2)   Turf or grass areas. At the request of the city and adjacent
property owners, sod of the type and quality that existed prior to excavation
will be replaced.
      (3)   Decorative rock and miscellaneous landscaping material. At the
request of the city and the adjacent property owners, decorative rock and other
landscaping material of the type and quality that existed prior to excavation,
will be replaced.
      (4)   Trees and shrubs. At the request of the city and the adjacent
property owners, trees and shrubs of the type and quality that existed prior to
excavation will be replaced. City Engineer to make the final determination
based on “clear zones”, sewer locations and public safety; the City Engineer to
consult with City Forester as to acceptable planting types.
(1960 Code, § 40-2-4) (Ord. 7087, passed 2-19-2008)
§ 158.034 RESPONSIBILITY.
   Any person shall provide such bond, insurance or other legal financial
guarantee that will save the city harmless from any and all damages real or
personal, directly or indirectly resulting from excavations made in public
thoroughfares and sidewalks. Written evidence of surety bond will be acceptable
assurance for damage responsibility.
(1960 Code, § 40-2-5) (Ord. 7087, passed 2-19-2008)
§ 158.035 NOTIFICATION.
   Any person shall notify the City Engineer 48 hours prior to backfilling an
excavation and request approval thereof and a second notification shall be
given 48 hours prior to constructing the permanent patch.
(1960 Code, § 40-2-6) (Ord. 7087, passed 2-19-2008)
§ 158.036 FITNESS OF APPLICANT.
   No permit shall be granted to any person who is in any respect delinquent in
the payment of moneys herein provided for or who, in the judgment of the Mayor,
is unfit or unqualified to engage in the class of work herein provided for.
(1960 Code, § 40-2-8) (Ord. 7087, passed 2-19-2008)
§ 158.037 ANNUAL BOND.
   Any person desiring to file an annual bond may do so by filing the same in
the sum of $50,000. The bond shall cover all damages as mentioned herein.
(1960 Code, § 40-2-9) (Ord. 7087, passed 2-19-2008)
§ 158.038 CLOSING STREET.
   (A)   Whenever public safety or the improvement or repair of any street,
alley or public place requires it, the Mayor may order any street, alley or
public place temporarily closed to traffic and the placing of signs indicating
that by the orders of the Mayor, such street, alley or public place is closed.
   (B)   Whenever such signs are so placed, no person shall ride or drive upon
or cross such street, alley or public place or in any manner destroy, deface or
remove any such sign.
(1960 Code, § 40-2-10) (Ord. 7087, passed 2-19-2008) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.039 OBSTRUCTING WORK IN STREETS.
   Whenever any street, alley or public place is being improved under any
contract with the city, it shall be unlawful for any person to destroy, injure,
carry away, remove or interfere with any of the material or appliances used in
or about the work, or impede, obstruct or interfere with the execution of the
work or destroy or damage any of the work or materials which may have been
placed by the contractor.
(1960 Code, § 40-2-11) (Ord. 7087, passed 2-19-2008) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.040 BARRIERS AND LIGHTS.
   Whoever digs or causes to be dug, any ditch or excavation in or adjoining
any street, sidewalk or other public place, shall erect a suitable barrier
about such excavation and during the night keep a sufficient number of yellow
lights at such excavation and the earth therefrom.
(1960 Code, § 40-2-12) (Ord. 7087, passed 2-19-2008) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.041 LIGHTS ON MATERIALS IN STREET.
   Every object standing on a street, alley or public place within the city
other than a vehicle shall have a lighted yellow light thereon at night.
(1960 Code, § 40-2-13) (Ord. 7087, passed 2-19-2008) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.042 INTERFERENCE WITH BARRIERS AND LIGHTS.
   No person shall remove or interfere with any barrier, warning sign or light
placed in any street for the protection of the public.
(1960 Code, § 40-2-14) (Ord. 7087, passed 2-19-2008) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.043 REGISTRATION FOR STREET EXCAVATION CONTRACTORS.
   (A)   Required. Any firm, person or corporation who intend to excavate in a
public right-of-way or perform sanitary sewer work beyond five feet of the
exterior wall of any building shall cause his or her name, residence and place
of business to be registered with the city, along with the telephone number of
said business.
   (B)   Bond. Each person required to register shall give bond to the city in
the sum of $50,000, conditioned upon a full indemnity to the city may be liable
by reason of:
      (1)   Failure of any firm, person or corporation to observe ordinances of
the city pertaining to excavation in a public right-of-way or perform sanitary
sewer work beyond five feet of the exterior wall of any building;
      (2)   Failure of the person to observe all rules and regulations
established under the authority of any ordinances of the city pertaining to
excavation in a public right-of-way or perform sanitary sewer work beyond five
feet of the exterior wall of any building; and/or
      (3)   Negligence of the person or his or her employees in performing or
protecting any street excavation, sewer work beyond five feet of the building
or right-of-way areas.
   (C)   Liability insurance policy.
      (1)   Each person or firm prior to registering under this section shall
have a minimum policy of liability insurance in the amount of $500,000 and
shall present proof of said insurance to the city. The city must be listed as
an additional insured on the liability insurance.
      (2)   The bond shall be renewed annually in the event of the impairment
of the surety. The bond may be written by a surety company, or may be secured
by a deposit of cash or United States government securities in the amount of
the bond and shall be filed with the City Clerk.
      (3)   No firm, person or corporation having obtained a bond with the city
shall allow his or her name or his or her business name to be used by another
person or company either for the purpose of obtaining permits or for street
excavations work under this subchapter.
(1960 Code, § 40-2-15) (Ord. 7087, passed 2-19-2008)
STREET GRADES
§ 158.055 CITY DATUM ESTABLISHED.
   The elevation of the city datum shall be a plane measured 97.60 feet below
the top of a bronze cap of an iron post set in concrete walk at the northeast
corner of the County Court House yard in the city, said cap being marked as
follows, “U.S. Geological B. M. Survey Prim. Trav. Sta. No. 15 ADJ 531 feet
Elevation above Sea Datum”, the top of said cap being 529.411 feet above mean
sea level.
(1960 Code, § 40-3-1)
§ 158.056 RECORD OF BENCHES AND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the City Engineer to have accurate standard
elevations and city bench marks established from, and referring to the City
Hall Bench, and after they have been ratified and confirmed by the City Council
to make and keep a careful and complete record of such standard and elevation
marks. He or she shall also make and keep a record of all the street grades
heretofore and hereafter established by the City Council.
   (B)   From the elevations given in said records, all public and private
improvements shall be contained in said records shall be the legal and only
standard representing city datum.
(1960 Code, § 40-3-2)
§ 158.057 DEFACEMENT OF BENCH MONUMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cover up, conceal, deface, obliterate
or in any manner to injure, erase, disfigure or change the location of any of
the concrete standard bench monuments established by the city.
(1960 Code, § 40-3-3) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.058 GRADE ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances fixing the grades of streets in the city shall be referred to
the City Engineer and may be passed by the City Council only upon the
recommendation of the City Engineer.
(1960 Code, § 40-3-4)
§ 158.059 STREET LINES.
   (A)   Street grades shall be established along the curb lines of the streets
and shall run in a straight line from the established grade at any street
intersection to the established grade at the intersection of the next street
thereto, or to any established street grade between the intersection of such
streets.
   (B)   The term INTERSECTION OF STREETS means the intersection of curb lines
and curb lines projected at all intersecting and abutting streets.
(1960 Code, § 40-3-5) (Ord. 1532, passed - -)
HOUSE NUMBERING
§ 158.070 REQUIRED.
   All buildings constructed within the city shall, at the expense of the owner
thereof, be provided with a number in manner as hereinafter provided.
(1960 Code, § 40-4-1)
§ 158.071 NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   The odd numbers shall apply to the north and west sides of the streets, and
the even numbers shall apply to the south and east sides of the streets. On all
streets running in an easterly and westerly direction the numbering shall
commence with No. 1 at Illinois Street, and shall increase east and west at the
rate of 100 numbers for each block as nearly as the varying series of streets
will admit of, thus Second, Eleventh, Church, Walnut and Abend Streets and
their continuations north and south shall be rectified lines of uniformity in
numbering east and west. On all streets running in a northerly and southerly
direction, the numbering shall commence at Main Street and increase in these
directions at the rate of 100 numbers for each block as nearly as the varying
series of streets will admit, thus “C”, Scheel, Garfield, McKinley, Van Buren
Streets and their connection easterly and westerly direction, shall be
rectified lines of uniformity in numbering in a northerly and southerly
direction. The general rule shall be that 100 numbers shall represent each
block going east and west from Illinois Street and north and south from Main
Street.
(1960 Code, § 40-4-2)
§ 158.072 ASSIGNMENT OF NUMBERS.
   (A)   In numbering buildings, 20 feet shall be allowed for each number on
Main Street and 25 feet for each number on all other streets throughout the
city.
   (B)   In cases of doubt, the City Engineer shall designate and assign the
proper number to any building in accordance with this section. His or her
designation shall be final.
(1960 Code, § 40-4-3)
§ 158.073 POSITION.
   The occupant of every building shall place the number at a point on the
premises which is plainly visible from the street.
(1960 Code, § 40-4-4) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.074 CHANGE.
   The City Engineer shall change existing building numbers whenever such
change is necessary or justifiable and he or she shall confer with the
postmaster in deciding on changes. When the City Engineer decides to change an
existing number, he or she shall notify the occupant in writing of such change
and shall further notify such occupant that the occupant must place the new
number in view as required by this subchapter within 15 days of the date of the
mailing or personal service of such notice.
(1960 Code, § 40-4-5)
§ 158.075 NEW BUILDING.
   Every applicant for a building permit shall furnish the Building
Commissioner with a legal description of the premises concerning which the
building permit is desired and, upon the granted thereof, the Building
Commissioner shall designate a building number for any new construction.
(1960 Code, § 40-4-6)
TREE CODE
§ 158.090 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Tree Code”.
(1960 Code, § 40-5-1) (Ord. 5363, passed 3-6-1995)
§ 158.091 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARBORICULTURE MANAGEMENT OR PRESERVATION. The treating, spraying, pruning
and any other tree care work intended for the preservation of trees and the
removal and prevention of the tree pests, blights and diseases of any and all
kinds.
   CITY. The City of Belleville.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The person authorized to exercise the powers
granted to him or her by this subchapter.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names and all areas owned by the city, or to which the
public has free access as a park.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any public street, public highway, public park and any
property owned or held by the city within the boundaries of said city.
   SHALL. The act referred to is always mandatory and not merely suggested.
   TREE or STREET TREE. Includes any tree, shrub, bush and other woody
vegetation in a public place or on private property as indicated by subsequent
provisions of this subchapter.
(1960 Code, § 40-5-2) (Ord. 5363, passed 3-6-1995; Ord. 8236-2018, passed 8-20-
2018)
§ 158.092 URBAN FOREST DIRECTOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Director of Public Works or his or her designee shall, by virtue
of his or her office, be the Urban Forest Director.
(1960 Code, § 40-5-3)
   (B)   (1)   General. The Urban Forest Director is hereby given complete
authority, control and supervision of all trees which now or which may
hereafter exist upon any public place in the city. The Director of Health,
Housing and Building shall have complete authority, control and supervision
over all trees which exist upon any private property in the city when such
trees are in such a hazardous condition as to affect adversely the public
health, safety and welfare.
      (2)   Specific powers and duties.
         (a)   Preservation and removal of trees on public property. The Urban
Forest Director shall have the right and duty to prune, preserve or remove any
tree or other plant existing upon any public place when such tree, or part
thereof, is infected with any injury, fungus, insect or other plant disease or
when such tree, or part thereof, constitutes an interference with travel. Said
Director is further authorized to take such measures with regard to such trees
or plants as he or she deems necessary to preserve the function and to preserve
or enhance the beauty of such public place.
         (b)   Order to preserve or remove trees on private property. The
Director of Health, Housing and Building shall have the authority and it shall
be his or her duty to order the pruning, preservation or removal of trees or
plants upon private property when such trees constitute a public nuisance or
when he or she shall find such action necessary to preserve the public health,
safety and welfare.
            1.   Any dead, dangerous or diseased tree insofar as it affects the
public health, comfort, safety and welfare is hereby declared a public nuisance
dangerous to life and limb. For the purposes of this subchapter, a DEAD TREE is
any tree with respect thereto that the Director of Health, Housing and Building
or his or her designated agent has determined that no part thereof is living; a
dangerous tree is any tree, or part thereof, living or dead, which the said
Director of Health, Housing
and Building or his or her designated agent shall find is in such a condition
and is so located as to constitute a danger to persons or property on public
space in the vicinity of said tree; a DISEASED TREE shall be any tree on
private property in such a condition of infection from a major pathogenic
disease as to constitute, in the opinion of the said Director of Health,
Housing and Building or his or her designated agent, a threat to the health of
any other tree.
            2.   Any trees, such as ailanthus, silver maple, poplar, boxelder,
catalpa or willow whose roots penetrate through or under the surface of any
public place in the city, is hereby declared to be an undesirable species of
tree for street planting.
            3.   Any hedge, tree, shrub or other growth situated at the
intersection of two or more streets, alleys or driveways in the city is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance to the extent that such hedge, tree, shrub or
other growth obstructs the view of the operator of any motor vehicle with
regard to other vehicles or pedestrians approaching or crossing the said
intersection.
            4.   Minimum clearances of any overhanging portions of any hedge,
tree or shrub shall be nine feet above sidewalks and 12 feet above streets.
         (c)   Authority of Director of Health, Housing and Building to enter
on private premises. The Director of Health, Housing and Building or any
designated member of his or her staff shall have the authority to enter upon
private premises at any and all reasonable times to examine any tree or shrub
located upon or over such premises and to carry out the provisions of the
subchapter when, in his or her opinion, the tree or shrub may constitute a
public nuisance or hazard.
         (d)   Desirable and undesirable plant lists. The Urban Forest Director
shall provide lists of trees desirable in this list may be planted as street
trees. These lists are defined in the Urban Forestry Inventory, as included in
Exhibit “A” (attached to the ordinance codified herein and following this
chapter).
         (e)   Delegation of duties and authority.
            1.   In the exercise of all or any of the powers herein granted,
the Urban Forest Director shall have the authority to delegate all or part of
his or her powers and duties with respect to supervision and control to his or
her subordinates and assistants in the employ of the city, as he or she may
from time to time determine.
            2.   Such subordinates or assistants may be appointed by the Urban
Forest Director as he or she deems expedient. He or she may at any time remove
them from office.
         (f)   Supervision. The Urban Forest Director or his or her appointed
officer shall have the authority and it shall be his or her duty to supervise
work done under a permit issued in accordance with terms of this subchapter.
(1960 Code, § 40-5-5)
(Ord. 5363, passed 3-6-1995; Ord. 8236-2018, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 158.093 (RESERVED).
§ 158.094 URBAN FOREST MANAGEMENT PLAN ADOPTED.
   This is hereby adopted for the city a Street Tree Inventory Plan public
document showing species of all trees existing or to be planted in the public
right-of-way of all streets within the city. Said Street Tree Inventory Plan is
attached to the ordinance codified herein and is hereby incorporated by
reference. No person shall hereafter plant, transplant or remove any public
tree on or to any street of the city, except on a location where it will be in
conformation to the Street Tree Inventory Plan and the species and variety
therein designated.
(1960 Code, § 40-5-6) (Ord. 5363, passed 3-6-1995) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.095 GENERAL TREE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Injury to trees prohibited. No person shall, without the written
permission from the Urban Forest Director in the case of a public tree, do or
cause to be done to others, any of the following acts:
      (1)   Secure, fasten or run any rope, wire, sign or other device or
material to, around or through a tree;
      (2)   Break, injure, mutilate, deface, kill or destroy or permit any fire
to burn where it will injure any tree;
      (3)   Permit any toxic chemical, gas, smoke, brine, oil or other
injurious substance to seep, drain or to be emptied upon or about any tree;
      (4)   Excavate any ditch or trench in such a manner as to adversely
affect the health of a tree or damage the root system;
      (5)   Erect, alter, repair or raze any building or structure without
placing suitable guards around all nearby trees which may be injured or defaced
by or where said injury or defacement may arise out of, in connection with or
by reason of such operation;
      (6)   Knowingly permit any uninsulated electric transmission or
distribution wires to come in prolonged contact with any public tree; and
      (7)   Remove any guard, stake or other device or material intended for
the protection of any public tree or close or obstruct any open space about the
base of a public tree designed to permit access of air, water and fertilizer.
   (B)   Moving trees. All moving of trees upon any public place in the city
made necessary by the moving, construction or razing of a building or structure
by any other private enterprise shall be done under the supervision of the
Urban Forest Director at the expense of the applicant. Such applicant, as one
of the conditions of obtaining such permission, shall deposit with the city
such sum in cash as the Urban Forest Director may determine and specify to
cover all the costs of moving and replacement thereof; provided, however, that,
in lieu of such cash deposit the Urban Forest Director may, at his or her
discretion, accept a good and sufficient bond in like amount conditioned upon
the payment of all the costs of such moving and replacing.
   (C)   Spacing. The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the
tree species size classes listed in the street tree inventory, and no trees may
be planted closer together than the following: small trees, 30 feet; medium
trees, 40 feet; and large trees, 50 feet; except in the special plantings
designed or approved by a landscape architect and subject to the approval of
the City Tree Board.
   (D)   Distance from curb and sidewalks. The distance trees may be planted
from curbs or curblines and sidewalks will be in accordance with the three
species size classes listed in the street tree inventory, and no trees may be
planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than the following: small trees, two
feet; medium trees, three feet; and large trees, four feet.
   (E)   Distance from street corners and fireplugs. No street tree shall be
planted closer than 35 feet of any street corner, measured from the point of
nearest intersecting curbs or curblines. No street tree shall be planted closer
than ten feet of any fireplug.
   (F)   Utilities. No street trees other than those species listed as small
trees in the street tree inventory may be planted under or within ten lateral
feet of any overhead utility wire pole or over or within five lateral feet of
any underground water line, sewer line, transmission line or other utility. No
street tree may be planted within ten lateral feet of any utility pole.
   (G)   Public tree care.
      (1)   The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove
trees, plants and shrubs within the line of all streets, alleys, avenues,
lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure public safety
or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds.
      (2)   The Urban Forest Director may request the Street Department to
remove any tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition, thereof which
by reason of its nature, is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas
lines, water lines or other public improvements, or is affected with any
injurious fungus, insect or other pest. This section does not prohibit the
planting of street trees by adjacent property owners providing that the
selection and location of said trees is in accordance with this subchapter.
   (H)   Tree topping. It shall be unlawful, as a normal practice, for any
person, firm or city department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree
on public property. TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to
stubs larger than three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a
degree as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely
damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or
other obstructions may be exempted from this subchapter at the determination of
the Urban Forest Director.
   (I)   Pruning, corner clearance. Every owner of any tree overhanging any
street or right-of-way within the city shall prune the branches so that such
branches shall not obstruct the light from any street lamp or obstruct the view
of any street intersection and so that there shall be a clear space of nine
feet above sidewalks and 12 feet above the surface of the street. Said owners
shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or broken or decayed limbs
which constitute a menace to the safety of the public. The city shall have the
right to prune any tree or shrub on private property when it interferes with
the proper spread of light along the street from a street light or interferes
with visibility of any traffic control device or sign or obstructs the view of
any street intersection.
   (J)   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property. The city shall have
the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased trees on private
property within the city, when such trees constitute a hazard to life and
property, or harbor insects of disease which constitute a potential threat to
other trees within the city. The designated city department will notify in
writing the owners of such trees. Removal shall be done by said owners at their
own expense within 60 days after the date of service of notice. For a hazardous
condition, the owner will have 14 days to correct.
   (K)   Penalty. In the event of failure of owners to comply with such
provisions, the city shall have the authority to remove such trees and placed a
lien on the owner’s property to recover all costs incurred. Until such bills or
liens are paid in full, no occupancy permits will be issued by the city.
   (L)   Removal of stumps. All stumps of street and park trees shall be
removed below the surface of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not
project above the surface of the ground.
(1960 Code, § 40-5-7) (Ord. 5363, passed 3-6-1995; Ord. 8236-2018, passed 8-20-
2018) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.096 ASSESSMENT ORDINANCE.
   Those costs incurred by the city which constitute a special assessment as
authorized by this code of ordinances shall become a lien upon the property as
of the date of the filing of the certificate of expenditure within the City
Council. If such lien shall remain unpaid at the expiration of two years from
the date of the filing of the certificate, the property may be sold for taxes
in the same manner as property sold for general real estate taxes.
(1960 Code, § 40-5-8) (Ord. 5363, passed 3-6-1995)
§ 158.097 INTERFERENCE WITH URBAN FOREST DIRECTOR OR DIRECTOR OF HEALTH,
HOUSING AND BUILDING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
Urban Forest Director or Director of Health, Housing and Building, or any of
his or her agents while engaging in and about the inspection, planting,
cultivation, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of any street trees, park
trees or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this subchapter.
(1960 Code, § 40-5-10) (Ord. 5363, passed 3-6-1995; Ord. 8236-2018, passed 8-
20-2018) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.098 REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and
decisions of the Urban Forest Director or Director of Health, Housing and
Building. Any person may appeal from any ruling or order of the Urban Forest
Director or Director of Health, Housing and Building to the City Council who
may hear the matter and make final decision.
(1960 Code, § 40-5-11) (Ord. 5363, passed 3-6-1995; Ord. 8236-2018, passed 8-
20-2018)
SIGNS AND AWNINGS
§ 158.110 SIGNS ACROSS STREETS.
   (A)   No person shall place any sign, advertisement or banner across any
street or alley in the city without first having obtained permission from the
City Council.
   (B)   A majority vote of the City Council shall be required to grant
permission to place any sign, advertisement or banner over or across any street
or alley in the city.
   (C)   No such sign, advertisement or banner shall be permitted to remain
over or across any street or alley in the city for a period of longer than 16
days; and any such sign, advertisement or banner giving notice of an event will
be removed within 48 hours after the taking place of that event.
(1960 Code, § 40-6-1) (Ord. 3231, passed 6-4-1974) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.111 POSTS OR AWNINGS.
   No person shall, in the city, without written permission from the Mayor, set
up or cause to be set up any awning or other post on any street, alley or
sidewalk or suspend or put up any awning less than eight feet in height above
the sidewalk, or any sign, sign box or fixture, which shall extend over or upon
any sidewalk, or suspend any merchandise or other articles in front of any
house more than two feet from the wall thereof, and so that any part of the
same shall be less than eight feet above the ground or pavement.
(1960 Code, § 40-6-2) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.112 SIGNS ON POLES.
   No person shall nail, tack, paste, paint or fasten, or cause to be nailed,
tacked, pasted, painted or fastened, any sign or any other foreign substance or
material onto any telegraph, telephone, electric light, police and fire alarm
pole or post, or any street or traffic sign located on any sidewalk, street,
alley or public grounds, or injure or deface any such pole or post.
(1960 Code, § 40-6-3) Penalty, see §
158.999
FENCES
§ 158.125 BARBED WIRE FENCES.
   No person shall build or cause to be built, constructed or kept upon or
along the line of any street, alley or sidewalk within the city, a fence
consisting either in whole or in part of barbed wire.
(1960 Code, § 40-7-1) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.126 SPITE FENCES.
   No person shall erect, construct or maintain any partition or division fence
or any section or portion thereof which exceeds four and one-half feet in
height above the surface of the ground for the first 50 feet back from the
front of street line of the lot or lots; and no partition or division fence
shall be constructed of such height or in such a manner as to interfere with
the access of light or air to any dwelling house or place used as a permanent
habitation.
(1960 Code, § 40-7-2) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.127 HEIGHT.
   No person shall erect, construct or maintain any fence which exceeds five
feet in height above the surface of the ground upon any lot or tract of ground
where the fence is adjacent or abuts any street in the city.
(1960 Code, § 40-7-3) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.128 ELECTRIC FENCES.
   No person shall erect or maintain anywhere in the city a fence equipped with
any electric charge sufficient to cause shock.
(1960 Code, § 40-7-4) (Ord. 3227, passed 5-20-1974) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.129 SNOW FENCES.
   No person shall erect or maintain snow fencing on private property as a
permanent fence to prevent intrusion from without or straying from within,
except for the use of snow fencing to protect general public from any drifting
that may occur on county, state, township or village owned right-of-way. This
section shall not be construed to prohibit temporary fencing as required for
tree protection or construction projects, or as needed by the Parks Department,
the City of Belleville or other governmental agencies.
(1960 Code, §40-7-5) (Ord. 7197, passed 10-20-2008; Ord. 9139-2023, passed 4-3-
2023) Penalty, see §
158.999
§ 158.130 MATERIAL.
   All fences shall be constructed from materials which are commonly used for
fencing and shall not be constructed of railroad ties, wood pallets, tires,
rubber or salvaged material. Commonly used fence materials include wood, brick,
stone, split railing, vinyl and ornamental iron work.
(Ord. 9139-2023, passed 4-3-2023)
§ 158.131 FENCE MAINTENANCE.
   All fences must be maintained in good, sound condition, free of damage,
breaks or missing structural members. Areas that are leaning, buckling, sagging
or deteriorating must be repaired or replaced with compatible material.
(Ord. 9139-2023, passed 4-3-2023)
STREET LIGHTS AND FIRE HYDRANTS
§ 158.140 STREET LIGHTS; LOCATION, SPACING AND LUMENS.
   (A)   Street lights are to be located at the front of the property only.
After the date of the adoption of this policy by the City Council, spacing
between the street lights shall be no less than 200 feet. Standards and
procedures for spacing and measurement shall be adopted and performed under the
direction of the city’s Engineering Department. The standard street light shall
be 7,200 lumen mercury vapor lamp (175 watt).
   (B)   This standard may be modified by recommendation of the City Engineer
to the City Council.
(1960 Code, § 40-8-1) (Ord. 5706, passed 3-3-1997)
§ 158.141 EXCEPTIONS; LUMENS.
   A street light may be installed when a location is designated, in writing,
as a location or area of special concern by the Chief of Police, the City
Engineer and the Mayor.
(1960 Code, § 40-8-2) (Ord. 5706, passed 3-3-1997)
§ 158.142 HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGNATION LIGHTING POLICY.
   (A)   The Historic District in the city shall be exempt under this
subchapter.
   (B)   However, the following regulations shall apply to the Historic
District in the city.
      (1)   Local historic district boundaries shall be outlined with a
“period” light post containing low wattage bulbs and a sign with the district
name. Said light post shall be placed at the intersection of the historic
district and shall include two light poles placed opposite from one another to
represent entries into the district. The light fixtures are not intended to
provide street light but rather to highlight a district’s boundaries.
      (2)   The light poles shall enhance the effect of the historic district
neighborhood with an attempt to compliment the spirit of historic preservation.
The “period” street lights shall signify properties which are subject to
additional restrictions to protect property values and the architectural and
historical significance of structures within the local historic district.
(1960 Code, § 40-8-3) (Ord. 5706, passed 3-3-1997)
§ 158.143 REQUEST PROCEDURE.
   Requests for street lights are to be made to the City Clerk by an Alderman
in the ward in which the light is located. The request shall be on a form
prescribed by the City Clerk and the City Engineer. After the request is made
on the form prescribed by the City Clerk and City Engineer, the matter shall
come before the City Council and any addition of a street light pursuant to
this subchapter shall be with the approval of the City Council.
(1960 Code, § 40-8-4) (Ord. 5706, passed 3-3-1997)
§ 158.144 APPEALS PROCEDURE.
   An Alderman may appeal a decision regarding spacing or areas of special
concerning by submitting the appeal request in writing to the Utilities
Committee. The Utilities Committee shall consider the request and make a
recommendation to the City Council for its affirmation or denial.
(1960 Code, § 40-8-5) (Ord. 5706, passed 3-3-1997)
§ 158.145 FIRE HYDRANTS; APPEALS.
   (A)   Fire hydrants shall be located as designated by the Fire Chief under
standards established by the National Fire Protection Association. Exceptions
to these standards shall be permitted only with the approval of the City
Engineer and Mayor.
(1960 Code, § 40-8-6)
   (B)   Appeals to decisions of the location of fire hydrants shall be made in
writing by an Alderman to the Police and Fire Committee. The Police and Fire
Committee shall consider the request and make a recommendation to the City
Council for its affirmation or denial.
(1960 Code, § 40-8-7)
(Ord. 5706, passed 3-3-1997)
§ 158.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person failing to comply with §§
158.030 through
158.043 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than $50, nor
more than $500, for each and every violation.
(1960 Code, § 40-2-7)
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
158.057 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $50, nor more than $200,
for each offense.
(1960 Code, § 40-3-3)
   (D)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
158.070 through
158.075 of this chapter shall be fined in a sum not less than $75, nor more
than $250.
(1960 Code, § 40-4-7)
   (E)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
158.090 through
158.098 of this chapter shall be deemed and held guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, shall be fined in any sum not less than $25, nor more than
$500, and/or may be imprisoned for a period not to exceed 60 days.
(1960 Code, § 40-5-9)
(Ord. 7087, passed 2-19-2008; Ord. 7207, passed 12-15-2008)
APPENDIX A: RECOMMENDED TREES
   One of the most common causes of new tree failure is improper plant
selection. No amount of maintenance will save a tree that is not adapted to the
climate and site conditions. Urban trees, especially, face a variety of
stresses, including compacted soils, poor growing conditions, and vandalism.
   The trees selected for this list have proven to be suitable for the urban
landscape. The list has been separated into trees recommended for large, medium
and small sites. Large sites are greater than 7 feet, medium sites are 5 to 7
feet, and small sites are 3 to 5 feet. Keep in mind that the presence of
overhead wires should automatically restrict a planting site to the small
category, regardless of its actual size.
LARGE TREES
LARGE TREES
Acer rubrum                         Red Maple
Acer platanoides                    Norway Maple
Acer saccharum                      Sugar Maple
Acer saccharum nigrum               Black Maple
Betula nigra                        River Birch
Betula nigra ‘Heritage’         Heritage River Birch
Celtis occidentalis ‘Prairie PridePrairie Pride Common Hackberry
Corylus columa                      Turkish Filbert
Ginkgo biloba                       Ginkgo—Male species recommended
Gymnocladus dioica                  Kentucky Coffeetree
Liriodendron tulipifera             Tuliptree
Nyssa sylvatica                     Sourgum
Quercus alba                        White Oak (difficult to transplant)
Quercus bicolor                     Swam White Oak
Quercus imbricaria                  Shingle Oak
Quercus macrocarpa                  Bur Oak
Quercus rubra                       Red Oak
Quercus velutina                    Black Oak
Sophora japonica                    Japanese Scholartree
Sophora japonica ‘Regent’       Regent Japanese Scholartree
Taxodium distichum                  Common Baldcypress
Tilia tomentosa                     Silver Linden
Ulmus parvifolia                    Lacebark (Chinese) Elm
 
MEDIUM TREES
MEDIUM TREES
Alnus glutinosa                 Common Alder
Crataegus crusgali var. inermis Thornless Cockspur Hawthorn
Crataegus viridis ‘Winter KingWinter King Green Hawthorn
Koeireuteria paniculata         Panicled Golden-Rain Tree
Magnolia X soulangiana          Saucer Magnolia
Ostrya virginiana               American Hophornbeam
Phellodendron amurense          Amur Corktree
 
SMALL TREES
SMALL TREES
Acer ginnala          Amur Maple
Acer griseum          Paperbark Maple
Acer palmatum         Japanese Maple
Acert tartaricum      Tatarian Maple
Amelanchair sp.       Serviceberry
Cercis canadensis     Eastern Redbud
Cornus kousa          Kousa Dogwood
Cornas mas            Cornelian—Cherry Dogwood
Crataegus phaenopyrum Washington Hawthorn
Malus species         Flowering Crabapples
Syringa reticulata    Japanese Tree Lilac
 
TREES FOR PARKING LOTS
   Parking lots present a special challenge for the urban forest manager. They
must be suited to the planted sites and should not have characteristics, such
as dropping fruit, that could damage cars. The following species are drought
tolerant and considered to be the best species for planting in parking lots in
Belleville.
 
Carpinus betulus European Hornbeam
‘Fastigiata’
Corylus colurna  Turkish Filbert
Koelreuteria     Golden-rain Tree
paniculata
Maclura          Osage Orange
pornifera var    (Thornless and fruitless cultivars only ‘Park’ & ‘Wichita’)
inermis
Sophora japonica Japanese Scholartree
Ulmus parvifolia Lacebark Elm
                 (also known as Chinese Elm)
 
The following species have some drought tolerance and may be suitable for
parking lots:
Tilia tomentosa                     Silver Linden
Zelkova serrata                     Japanese Zelkova
Acer ginnala                        Amur Maple
Acer campestre                      Hedge Maple
Crataegus viridis ‘Winter King’ Winter King Green Hawthorn
Celtic occidentalis ‘Prairie PridePrairie Pride Hackberry
Gingko biloba                       Gingko—male species recommended
Gleditsia triacanthos var. inermis  Thornless Honeylocust
 
SPECIES NOT RECOMMENDED FOR PLANTING
   The following species should not be planted in the Belleville urban forest:
Acer negundo         Box Elder
   Reason: It has weak wood and persistent, weedy seedlings.
Catalpa spp.         Catalpa
   Reason: It has weak wood and messy fruit.
Betula pendula       European White Birch
   Reason: It is susceptible to leaf miner and bronze birch borer.
Morus spp.           Mulberry
   Reason: It has messy fruit.
Picea pungens        Colorado Blue Spruce
   Reason: It is susceptible to Cytosoora canker.
Poplar spp.          Poplar
   Reason: It has weak wood and is susceptible to aphids, borers, cankers,
galls, leaf blisters, rust and scales.
Prunus cerasifera    Purple-leaf Plum
   Reason: It is susceptible to insects and diseases.
Robinia pseudoacasia Black Locust
   Reason: It is short-lived and susceptible to borer and leaf miner.
Salix spp.           Willow
   Reason: It is susceptible to insects and diseases, including twig blight,
crown gall, cankers, borers, leaf spot, scales and aphids.
Sorbus aucuparia     European Mountain Ash
   Reason: It is susceptible to scales, mountain ash sawfly, scab and other
insects and diseases.
Ulmus pumila         Siberian Elm
   Reason: It has weak wood and is susceptible to elm leaf beetle.
 
(Ord. 8994-2021, passed 10-19-2021)
CHAPTER 159: ENTERPRISE ZONES
Section
   
159.01   Zone established
   
159.02   Boundaries
   
159.03   Qualifications
   
159.04   Sales tax exemption
   
159.05   Property tax exemption
   
159.06   Zone Administrator
   
159.07   Fee schedule
§ 159.01 ZONE ESTABLISHED.
   The city hereby establishes an “Enterprise Zone” pursuant to authority
granted by the state’s Enterprise Zone Act, being 20 ILCS 655, (the “Act”;
Public Act 82-1019), as amended, subject to the approval of the state’s
Department of Commerce and Community Affairs, and subject to the provisions of
the Act.
(1960 Code, § 11-1-1)
§ 159.02 BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the Enterprise Zone, which establish the “Zone Area”, are
those set forth in the map attached to the ordinance codified herein and made a
part hereof. The term of the zone shall commence with the date the Enterprise
Zone is designated and certified by the state’s Department of Commerce and
Economic Opportunity pursuant to the Act, and shall be in effect for 30
calendar years, or for a lesser number of years specified in the certified
designating ordinance, unless otherwise dated herein.
(1960 Code, § 11-1-2)
§ 159.03 QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The city hereby declares and affirms that the Zone Area is qualified
for designation as an Enterprise Zone in accordance with the provisions of the
state’s Enterprise Zone Act, being 20 ILCS 655, and further affirms that:
      (1)   An area is qualified to become an enterprise zone which:
      (1)   Is a contiguous area, provided that a Zone Area may exclude wholly
surrounded territory within its boundaries;
      (2)   Comprises a minimum of one-half square mile and not more than 12
square miles;
      (3)   Is entirely within a municipality; and
      (4)   Meets three or more of the following criteria:
         (a)   All or part of the local labor market area has had an annual
average unemployment rate of at least 120% of the state’s annual average
unemployment rate for the most recent calendar year or the most recent fiscal
year as reported by the Department of Employment Security;
         (b)   Designation will result in the development of substantial
employment opportunities by creating or retaining a minimum aggregate of 1,000
full-time equivalent jobs due to an aggregate investment of $100,000,000 or
more, and will help alleviate the effects of poverty and unemployment within
the local labor market area;
         (c)   All or part of the local labor market area has a poverty rate of
at least 20% according to the latest federal decennial census, 50% or more of
children in the local labor market area participate in the federal free lunch
program according to reported statistics from the State Board of Education, or
20% or more households in the local labor market area receive food stamps
according to the latest federal decennial census;
         (d)   An abandoned coal mine or a brownfield (as defined in § 58.2 of
the Environmental Protection Act) is located in the proposed Zone Area, or all
or a portion of the proposed zone was declared a federal disaster area in the
three years preceding the date of application;
         (e)   The local labor market area contains a presence of large
employers that have downsized
over the years, the labor market area has experienced plant closures in the
five years prior to the date of application affecting more than 50 workers, or
the local labor market area has experienced state or federal facility closures
in the five years prior to the date of application affecting more than 50
workers;
         (f)   Based on data from Multiple Listing Service information or other
suitable sources, the
local labor market area contains a high floor vacancy rate of industrial or
commercial properties, vacant or demolished commercial and industrial
structures are prevalent in the local labor market area, or industrial
structures in the local labor market area are not used because of age,
deterioration, relocation of the former occupants, or cessation of operation;
         (g)   The applicant demonstrates a substantial plan for using the
designation to improve the state and local government tax base, including
income, sales and property taxes;
         (h)   Significant public infrastructure is present in the local labor
market area in addition to a plan for infrastructure development and
improvement;
         (i)   High schools or community colleges located within the local
labor market area are engaged in ACT Work Keys, Manufacturing Skills Standard
Certification or other industry-based credentials that prepare students for
careers; or
         (j)   The change in equalized assessed valuation of industrial and/or
commercial properties in the five years prior to the date of application is
equal to or less than 50% of the state average change in equalized assessed
valuation for industrial and/or commercial properties, as applicable for the
same period of time.
   (B)   On 11-19-1984, the city conducted a public hearing within the Zone
Area on the question of whether to create the zone, what local plans, tax
incentives and other programs should be established in connection with the
zone, and what the boundaries of the zone should be, and that public notice was
given in at least one newspaper of general circulation within the Zone Area,
not more than 20, nor less than five, days before the hearing.
(1960 Code, § 11-1-3)
§ 159.04 SALES TAX EXEMPTION.
   Each retailer whose place of business is within the corporate limits of the
city and who makes a sale of building materials to be incorporated into real
estate located in the Zone Area by remodeling, rehabilitation or new
construction, may file claims for credit or refund to recover the amount of tax
paid under the Municipal Retailers’ Occupation Tax Act, being 65 ILCS 5/8-11-
1 et seq.; provided, however, that, such remodeling, rehabilitation or new
construction is of the nature and scope for which a building permit is required
and has been obtained. The incentive provided by this section shall commence
the first day of the calendar month following the month in which the Enterprise
Zone is designated and certified, and shall continue for the term of the
Enterprise Zone.
(1960 Code, § 11-1-4)
§ 159.05 PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTION.
   The city authorizes and directs the County Clerk to abate ad valorem taxes
imposed upon real property, located within the Enterprise Zone Area, upon which
new improvements have been constructed or upon which existing improvements have
been renovated or rehabilitated, subject to the following conditions.
   (A)   Any abatement of taxes on any parcel shall not exceed the amount
attributable to the construction of the improvements and the renovation or
rehabilitation of existing improvements on such parcel.
   (B)   Such abatement shall be allowed only for commercial and industrial
property which are not used for residential purposes located within the Zone
Area.
   (C)   Such abatement shall be at the rate of: 50% of the value of the
improvements, for the assessment year in which the improvements are made, and
the four assessment years immediately following the year in which the
improvements are made.
   (D)   Such abatement shall continue and be in full force as set forth in
this section for any improvements which are completed within the term of the
Enterprise Zone as specified in §
159.02 of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 11-1-5) (Ord. 5013, passed 11-16-1992)
§ 159.06 ZONE ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Each Zone Administrator designated under § 8 of this Act shall post a
copy of the boundaries of the Enterprise Zone on its official Internet website
and shall provide an electronic copy to the Department. The Department shall
post each copy of the boundaries of an Enterprise Zone that it receives from a
Zone Administrator on its official Internet website.
   (B)   The Zone Administrator shall collect and aggregate the following
information:
      (1)   The estimated cost of each building project, broken down into labor
and materials; and
      (2)   Within 60 days after the end of the project, the estimated cost of
each building project, broken down into labor and materials.
   (C)   By April 1 of each year, each Zone Administrator shall file a copy of
its fee schedule with the Department, and the Department shall post the fee
schedule on its website. Zone Administrators shall charge no more than 0.5% of
the cost of building materials of the project associated with the specific
Enterprise Zone, with a maximum fee of no more than $50,000.
(1960 Code, § 11-1-7) (Ord. 4135, passed 12-31-1984)
§ 159.07 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The fee schedule shall be no more than 0.5% of the estimated cost of
building material of the project, associated with the expansion of the
Enterprise Zone for a specific project, with a maximum fee of no more than
$50,000.
CHAPTER 160: SPECIAL BUSINESS DISTRICTS
Section
   
160.01   Definitions
   
160.02   Findings
   
160.03   Route 15/S. Green Mount Road Business District Plan
   
160.04   Route 15/S. Green Mount Road Business District and Commission
   
160.05   Findings related to the Business District
   
160.06   Imposition of the Business District taxes
§ 160.01 DEFINITIONS.
   As styled in the ordinance codified herein, all capitalized terms used in
that ordinance shall be construed as defined in the Business District Act and
the Business District Plan. (This chapter does not contain such stylization.)
(1960 Code, § 39-1-1) (Ord. 7343, passed 12-21-2009)
§ 160.02 FINDINGS.
   The city hereby makes the following findings as supported by the Route 15/S.
Green Mount Road Business District Plan.
   (A)   The Business District Plan constitutes a specific plan for a business
district in the city.
   (B)   The designation of the Business District, as more specifically
described in the Business District Plan, will assure opportunities for
development and redevelopment, and attraction of quality commercial growth to
the city.
   (C)   The Business District Plan and the Business District conform with the
existing Comprehensive Plan for the city.
   (D)   The city’s exercise of the powers provided in the Act is dedicated to
the promotion of the public interest and to the enhancement of the tax base of
the business district’s and the city’s use of the powers for the development
and redevelopment of the Business District as provided in the Business District
Plan is declared to be a public use essential to the public interest of the
residents of the city.
(1960 Code, § 39-1-2) (Ord. 7343, passed 12-21-2009)
§ 160.03 ROUTE 15/S. GREEN MOUNT ROAD BUSINESS DISTRICT PLAN.
   The Route 15/S. Green Mount Road Business District Plan is hereby approved
in the form as filed with the City Clerk on 10-19-2009, a copy of which is
attached to the ordinance codified herein and incorporated herein by this
reference.
(1960 Code, § 39-1-3) (Ord. 7343, passed 12-21-2009)
§ 160.04 ROUTE 15/S. GREEN MOUNT ROAD BUSINESS DISTRICT AND COMMISSION.
   The Route 15/S. Green Mount Road Business District is hereby established
pursuant to the Business District Plan and the Business District Act. The City
Council shall have and possess without limitation, such powers with respect to
the Business District as authorized under the Business District Act and the
Business District Plan.
(1960 Code, § 39-1-4) (Ord. 7343, passed 12-21-2009)
§ 160.05 FINDINGS RELATED TO THE BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   The city hereby finds the area included in the Business District to be
a “blighted area” as such term is used under the Business District Act based on
the facts as set forth in the Business District Plan. The Business District
shall have such additional powers available to the Business District under the
Business District Act as a result of the area in the Business District being a
blighted area, including the power to impose a retailers’ occupation tax and a
service occupation tax in the business district for the planning, execution and
implementation of the Business District Plan.
   (B)   The city hereby makes the following findings with respect to the
property within the Business District pursuant to the Business District Act.
      (1)   The area to be designated as a Business District is contiguous.
      (2)   The Business District includes only parcels of real property
directly and substantially benefitted by the Business District Plan.
      (3)   The Business District, in its entirety, is located within the city
limits.
      (4)   The Business District is a blighted area; that, by reason of the
predominance of defective or inadequate street layout, unsanitary or unsafe
conditions, deterioration of site improvements, or the existence of conditions
which endanger life or property by fire or other causes, or any combination of
those factors, constitutes an economic or social liability or a menace to the
public health, safety, morals or welfare in its present condition and use.
      (5)   The Business District, on the whole, has not been subject to growth
and development through investment by private enterprises or would not
reasonably be anticipated to be developed without the adoption of the Business
District Plan.
      (6)   The Business District Plan conforms to the Comprehensive Plan for
the development of the city as a whole, as determined by the City Council.
   (C)   The city hereby finds that the Route 15/S. Green Mount Road Business
District Plan includes the following:
      (1)   A specific description of the proposed boundaries of the Business
District, including a map illustrating the boundaries;
      (2)   A general description of each project proposed to be undertaken
within the Business District, including a description of the approximate
location of each project;
      (3)   The name of the proposed Business District;
      (4)   The estimated Business District costs;
      (5)   The anticipated source of funds to pay Business District costs;
      (6)   The anticipated type and terms of any obligations to be issued (the
obligations); and
      (7)   The rate of any tax to be imposed pursuant to subsections (12) or
(13) of § 11-74.3-3 of the Business District Act and the period of time for
which the tax shall be imposed.
(1960 Code, § 39-1-5) (Ord. 7343, passed 12-21-2009)
§ 160.06 IMPOSITION OF THE BUSINESS DISTRICT TAXES.
   (A)   (1)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business
of selling tangible personal property, other than an item of tangible personal
property titled or registered with an agency of the state’s government, at
retail within the boundaries of the Route 15/S. Green Mount Road Business
District at the rate of 1% of the gross receipts from such sales made in the
course of such business while this chapter is in effect; and a tax is hereby
imposed upon all persons engaged within the boundaries of the Route 15/S. Green
Mount Road Business District in the business of making sales of service, at the
rate of 1% of the selling price of all tangible personal property transferred
by such serviceperson as an incident to a sale of service. This Business
District retailers’ occupation tax and this Business District service
occupation tax shall not be applicable to the sale of food for human
consumption which is to be consumed off the premises where it is sold (other
than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and food that has been prepared for
immediate consumption) and prescription and non-prescription medicines, drugs,
medical appliances, modifications to a motor vehicle for the purpose of
rendering it usable by a disabled person, and insulin, urine testing materials,
syringes and needles used by diabetics.
      (2)   The imposition of these Business District taxes is in accordance
with the provisions of subsections (B) and (C), respectively, of § 11-74.3-6 of
the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/11-74.3-6).
      (3)   The city shall file with the Department of Revenue of the state a
certified copy of this chapter, including the boundaries of the Route 15/S.
Green Mount Road Business District, and all other documents required by the
Business District Act for the administration, collection and enforcement by the
Department of these Business District sales taxes.
      (4)   All amounts generated by the sales tax shall be collected and the
tax shall be enforced by the Department of Revenue in the same manner as other
retailers’ occupation taxes and service occupation taxes imposed by the city.
The proceeds of the sales tax shall be deposited by the city into a special
fund held by the city entitled the Route 15/S. Green Mount Road Business
District Tax Allocation Fund.
   (B)   (1)   A hotel operator’s occupation tax is hereby imposed upon all
persons engaged in the business of renting, leasing or letting rooms in a
hotel, as defined in the Hotel Operators’ Occupation Tax Act, at a rate of 1%
of the gross rental receipts from the renting, leasing or letting of hotel
rooms within the business district, excluding, however, from gross rental
receipts the proceeds of renting, leasing or letting to permanent residents of
a hotel, as defined in the Hotel Operators’ Occupation Tax Act, and proceeds
from the tax imposed under subsection (c) of § 13 of the Metropolitan Pier and
Exposition Authority Act. Revenues from the hotel tax shall be applied to
payment of the authorized expenditures of the Business District or to payment
of bonds, notes or other obligations issued to fund such Business District
costs.
      (2)   The imposition of this Business District tax is in accordance with
the provisions of subsection (d) of § 11-74.3-6 of the Illinois Municipal Code
(65 ILCS 5/11-74.3-6).
      (3)   The city shall administer, collect and enforce the hotel tax as
provided in the Business District Act.
      (4)   The proceeds of the hotel tax shall be deposited by the city into a
special fund held by the city entitled the Route 15/S. Green Mount Road
Business District Tax Allocation Fund.
   (C)   The taxes hereby imposed under division (A) above, and all civil
penalties that may be assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and
enforced by the Department of Revenue of the state. The Department of Revenue
shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   The Municipal Clerk is hereby directed to file a certified copy of
this chapter with the state’s Department of Revenue on or before April 1.
   (E)   This chapter shall take effect on July 1 next following the adoption
and filing of this chapter with the Department of Revenue.
(1960 Code, § 39-1-6) (Ord. 7343, passed 12-21-2009)
CHAPTER 161: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
161.001   Subdivision regulations
   
161.002   Definition
   
161.003   Conference for sketch plat
Preliminary Plat
   
161.015   Application
   
161.016   Filing plat
   
161.017   Vicinity sketch
   
161.018   Conformance to official plans
   
161.019   Scale
   
161.020   Detail of plat
   
161.021   Supplemental information to be submitted with preliminary plat
   
161.022   General design criteria
   
161.023   Approval of preliminary plat
   
161.024   Variation in regulations
Improvement Plans
   
161.035   Form and number of copies
   
161.036   Permit to begin grading and construction
   
161.037   Detail of plans
Final Plat
   
161.050   Form and number of copies
   
161.051   Scale and detail of plat
   
161.052   Street dedication
   
161.053   Recording plat
Assurance of Completion
   
161.065   Final plat approval
   
161.066   Forms of assurance
   
161.067   Amount of bond
   
161.068   Eligible sureties
   
161.069   Term of assurance, extension
   
161.070   Release of bond/escrow deposit
   
161.071   Failure to complete improvements
   
161.072   Maintenance guarantee
Documentation Required
   
161.085   Electronic copy
   
161.086   Format
   
161.087   Paper copies
   
161.088   Preliminary plat
   
161.089   As-builts
   
161.090   Final plat
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 161.001 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   Before any land is subdivided in the city and before a subdivision plat is
approved by the City Council the person seeking to subdivide or seeking to
obtain the approval of a subdivision plat shall comply with the rules and
regulations set forth in this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 41-1-1) (Ord. 7128, passed 4-28-2008)
§ 161.002 DEFINITION.
   As used in this chapter, a SUBDIVISION is the division within the
jurisdiction of the City Plan Commission of a lot, tract or parcel of land into
two or more lots or other divisions of land, for the purpose, whether immediate
or future, of transfer of ownership or building development. A division of land
for agricultural purposes, in parcels of more than ten acres, not involving any
new street or easement of access is not a SUBDIVISION.
(1960 Code, § 41-1-2) (Ord. 7128, passed 4-28-2008)
§ 161.003 CONFERENCE FOR SKETCH PLAT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The objective of this procedure is to provide an
opportunity for the applicant (subdivider) and appropriate city committees to
confer regarding the concept and basic elements of the proposed development.
This procedure is intended to provide the foundation for a clear understanding
and line of communication between the applicant and the city concerning the
applicant’s development proposals and the city’s subdivision development
regulations and further serve to conserve time, effort and expense. By allowing
the applicant an early opportunity to gain the city’s input into the proposed
development, this procedure should facilitate and expedite the formal
subdivision review and approval process.
   (B)   Discussion of requirements. Prior to preparing and submitting the
sketch plat for a subdivision, the applicant shall review the city’s applicable
codes and ordinances to determine the specific procedures and steps to prepare
and submit a subdivision plat and plans for approval. The Comprehensive Plan of
the city shall be reviewed by the subdivider to determine how his or her
proposed plat will compliment the plan and development guidelines and policies.
Requirements as to the general layout of streets and for reservations of land,
street improvements, storm water drainage, water and sanitary sewer, community
facilities and relationship to other developments in the immediate area shall
be discussed and determined.
   (C)   Application procedure and plat requirements. Prior to preliminary plat
submittal, an owner of the land, the developer or his or her representative
shall file an application for approval of a sketch plat with the city’s Plan
Commission. The application shall be made on forms available from the city’s
Economic Development and Planning Department and shall be accompanied by a neat
sketch plat (of sufficient scale) with at least the following information:
      (1)   Site boundaries, size and general description and location;
      (2)   Approximate subdivision lot boundaries and dimensions;
      (3)   Proposed layout of streets, lots and other features in relation to
existing conditions including, but not limited to, sidewalks and open space, as
provided in §
161.022(C) and (L) respectively, of this chapter;
      (4)   General site topography, U.S.G.S. datum (7.5 ft. quandrangle map
acceptable);
      (5)   Major existing and proposed trees, tree masses and vegetation as
well as existing buildings and structures (current aerial image acceptable);
      (6)   Existing land use of adjacent property;
      (7)   Existing and proposed zoning of property;
      (8)   Location and size of existing water lines and sanitary sewers that
will serve the proposed project;
      (9)   Name and address of licensed professional engineer, surveyor that
will be used in preparing the preliminary and final plat if known; and
      (10)   Any existing or proposed common open space and community
facilities.
   (D)   Review procedures and considerations. Upon submission of an
application for sketch plat approval, the Plan Commission, at its regular
meeting, and in conjunction with appropriate city staff and department heads,
shall meet to review and consider approval of the sketch plat before further
work on the preliminary plat and engineering plans are initiated. There is no
fee for the review and consideration of a sketch plat. The following steps and
procedures shall apply.
      (1)   Upon receipt of an application for sketch plat approval, the
Economic Development and Planning Department shall schedule the applicant on
the agenda of the next Plan Commission meeting to review and consider the
proposed subdivision development. The plat and application must be received by
the city no later than two weeks before the Plan Commission meeting in which
sketch plat approval is being sought.
      (2)   The Plan Commission shall consider the sketch plat to determine if
the plat and proposed development conforms with the subdivision code and
development guidelines and standards set forth. Particular attention should be
paid to the width of streets, their relation to the topography of the land,
water and fire protection, sewage disposal, drainage, lot sizes and
arrangement, the further development of adjoining lands as yet unsubdivided and
the requirements of the city’s Master Plan and amendments as adopted.
      (3)   Comments and recommendations generated as a result of the Plan
Commission’s review shall be kept intact and filed along with the preliminary
plat and subsequent submissions. Furthermore, the applicant shall be provided
with a list of all comments and suggestions regarding the sketch plan and
actions necessary to proceed with preparation of the preliminary plat.
      (4)   Said approval of the sketch plat by the Plan Commission shall
constitute support to prepare and submit a preliminary plat.
      (5)   A preliminary plat will not be reviewed by the Development Review
Committee unless a sketch plat is first approved by the Planning Commission.
(1960 Code, § 41-1-3) (Ord. 7128, passed 4-28-2008)
PRELIMINARY PLAT
§ 161.015 APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for tentative approval of the preliminary plat,
available from the city’s Economic Development and Planning Department,
together with 14 11-inch by 17-inch and four 24-inch by 36-inch sets of plans
shall be submitted to the Economic Development and Planning Department no later
than five working days before the meeting of the first Thursday of each month,
at which time staff will review the submitted preliminary plat. The Development
Review Committee, on the second Thursday of each month, shall review the
submitted plat with the developer and consulting engineer and shall act upon
the preliminary plat. The Development Review Committee shall review the
submitted application and preliminary plat and act in one of three ways:
      (1)   Recommend approval of plat and forward to Planning Commission;
      (2)   Recommend revisions be made and forward with revisions to Planning
Commission; or
      (3)   Recommend revisions be made and be submitted to the Development
Review Committee for a second review.
   (B)   The developer shall submit 24 11-inch by 17-inch copies of the
preliminary plat and four 24- inch by 36-inch copies of the preliminary plat to
the Economic Development and Planning Department at least two weeks prior to
the Planning Commission meeting at which the plat will considered. The Planning
Commission shall review the plat and recommend it be considered by the City
Council if it sees fit.
   (C)   The developer shall submit 40 11-inch by 17-inch and two 24-inch by
36-inch sets of plans to the Economic Development and Planning Department for
review by the City Council.
   (D)   (1)   The fee for preliminary plat review shall be $25 per lot.
Payment shall be made at the time preliminary plat is submitted to Development
Review Committee for review. Plans will not be reviewed by staff until the
preliminary plat fee is paid. If, at any time after the Development Review
Committee meeting, the developer decides to withdraw the subdivision plans, he
or she shall forfeit the preliminary plat fee.
      (2)   If, at any time, plans are resubmitted for the subdivision, a new
fee shall be assessed, based on the most current subdivision design.
   (E)   If the developer is indebted to the city in any way, the city will not
entertain the development proposal until all debts are paid in full.
(1960 Code, § 41-2-1) (Ord. 7128, passed 4-28-2008)
§ 161.016 FILING PLAT.
   Before any subdivider or his or her agent contracts for the sale or offers
to sell any subdivision a part of a subdivision of land which is laid out
wholly or partly within the incorporated territory of the city or the
jurisdiction of the Plan Commission, the subdivider or his or her agent shall
follow the procedures set forth in this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 41-2-2) (Ord. 7128, passed 4-28-2008)
§ 161.017 VICINITY SKETCH.
   A vicinity sketch or key map at a scale of not more than 400 feet to the
inch shall be shown on or accompany the preliminary plat. This map shall show
all existing subdivisions, streets and tract lines of acreage parcels together
with the names of the record owners of parcels of land immediately adjoining
the proposed subdivisions and between it and the nearest existing
thoroughfares. It shall also show how streets and alleys in the proposed
subdivision may connect with existing and proposed streets and alleys in
neighboring subdivisions or undeveloped property to produce the most
advantageous development of the entire neighboring area. The area to be
subdivided shall be outlined in red.
(1960 Code, § 41-2-3) (Ord. 7128, passed 4-28-2008)
§ 161.018 CONFORMANCE TO OFFICIAL PLANS.
   All proposed subdivisions shall conform to the city, county or regional
plan. Whenever a tract to be subdivided embraces any part of a thoroughfare,
secondary thoroughfare, boulevard or parkway, so designated on the city, county
or regional plan, such part of such proposed public way shall be platted by the
subdivider in the location and of the width indicated on the city, county or
regional plan.
(1960 Code, § 41-2-4) (Ord. 7128, passed 4-28-2008)
§ 161.019 SCALE.
   The horizontal scale of a preliminary plat shall be 100 feet or less to the
inch and the vertical scale 20 feet or less to the inch.
(1960 Code, § 41-2-5) (Ord. 7128, passed 4-28-2008)
§ 161.020 DETAIL OF PLAT.
   The preliminary plat shall show:
   (A)   The proposed name of the subdivision;
   (B)   North point, scale, date, zoning, ward number, Aldermen of ward,
school district(s) and Superintendent of School District;
   (C)   The names and address of the subdivider and of the engineer or
surveyor, and data on any previous subdivisions, plats, special land usages,
rights-of-way or easements in the area;
   (D)   The tract designation and other description according to the real
estate records of the city or County Clerk and Recorder;
   (E)   The boundary line (accurate in scale) of the tract to be subdivided;
   (F)   Floodplain and wetlands. If subdivision falls outside of the
floodplain, this should be noted. If there are no wetlands contained in the
subject property, this should also be noted;
   (G)   Contours with intervals of five feet or less, referred to sea level
datum as established by the United States Geological Survey;
   (H)   The names and boundaries of adjacent subdivisions or the names of
record owners of adjoining parcels of land;
   (I)   The location, widths and names of all existing or platted streets or
other public ways within or adjacent to the tract, existing permanent
structures and their existing use, railroad rights-of-way or other important
features, such as section lines, political subdivision or corporation lines and
school district boundaries;
   (J)   Existing sewers, water mains, culverts or other underground structures
within the tract and immediately adjacent thereto with pipe sizes, grades and
locations indicated;
   (K)   All parcels of land intended to be dedicated for public use or
reserved in the deeds for the use of the public together with the purpose of
conditions or limitations of such reservation, if any, including but not
limited to outlots, detention and retention basins and open space;
   (L)   The layout and widths of proposed rights-of-way, streets, alleys and
easements;
   (M)   The profile of each street with tentative grades;
   (N)   The cross-section of proposed streets showing the width of roadways,
location and width of sidewalks, and the approximate location and minimum size
of utility mains, conduits and poles. The developer shall construct all
improvements in accordance with a Standard Specification for Street and Sewer
Construction, to be prepared by the City Engineer and approved by the City
Council;
   (O)   A plan of proposed sanitary, storm water, with grades and pipe sizes
indicated, and a plan of the proposed water distribution system showing minimum
pipe sizes and approximate location of valves and fire hydrants, and street
lighting;
   (P)   Names of all proposed streets;
   (Q)   The layout, numbers and approximate dimensions, and square footage of
all proposed lots, including width of all lots at front building line;
   (R)   Phasing of proposed subdivision, including estimated times of
completion for each phase; and
   (S)   There shall be no disclaimers on the preliminary plat (or improvement
plans or final plat) that release liability regarding pre-existing easements,
rights-of-way and the like. Further, the preliminary plat should graphically
depict all encumbrances on the property proposed for subdividing.
(1960 Code, § 41-2-6) (Ord. 7128, passed 4-28-2008)
§ 161.021 SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION TO BE SUBMITTED WITH PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The following information shall be submitted in full with the preliminary
plat. Omission of any of the following materials and/or information shall
result in the Development Review Committee tabling the review of said
subdivision until all materials are submitted.
   (A)   Sketch plat. The developer shall submit the sketch plat that was
approved by the Planning Commission with the preliminary plat.
   (B)   Comparative narrative.
      (1)   The developer shall submit a narrative with the preliminary plat
which compares the proposed subdivision to existing subdivisions within one-
half mile. Said narrative should include information on street widths, size and
types of homes, facade treatment of homes, lot sizes, landscaping and other
amenities (i.e., community pool, walking trails, open space and the like).
      (2)   The narrative shall be taken into consideration by the Planning
Commission and City Council when considering the preliminary plat for approval;
generally, new subdivisions should meet or exceed the standards set forth in
neighboring subdivisions.
   (C)   Covenants, restrictions and by-laws. The developer shall submit with
the preliminary plat the covenants, restrictions and by-laws of the proposed
subdivision for review. The covenants, restrictions and by-laws shall include
language which states that the homeowners association is responsible for the
maintenance of all outlots including detention and retention areas. The city
may require a separate, acceptable written maintenance agreement in addition to
any restrictive covenants for the subdivision with regard to the maintenance
and safeguarding of all surface water retention, surface water detention and
other surface water storage areas that are shown on the plat.
   (D)   Environmental site assessment. A Phase I environmental site assessment
shall be submitted with the preliminary plat for each proposed subdivision.
   (E)   Property owners notified.
      (1)   The developer must submit, with the preliminary plat before the
Planning Commission meeting, a detailed list of property owners within 300 feet
of the proposed subdivision. The list shall include:
         (a)   Property owner’s name;
         (b)   Site address;
         (c)   Site parcel number;
         (d)   Property owner’s address;
         (e)   Mailing name; and
         (f)   Mailing address.
      (2)   City staff will send, by first class mail to all property owners
within 300 feet, a notice of public hearing by the Planning Commission
regarding the subject subdivision.
   (F)   School district(s) notified. The developer shall include on the
preliminary plat the school district(s) in which the subdivision is located.
The developer must also provide the city with the name and mailing address of
the Superintendent(s). The city will notify the school districts by first class
mail as described above in division (E) above.
   (G)   Tree plan. The developer shall submit, as part of the preliminary
plat, a map showing the existing tree stock that is located on the land is
proposed to be developed. The plan should show location, type and approximate
size in trunk diameter of all trees. In densely wooded areas, the type and
location of trees may not be required. The developer must also show on the plan
which trees will be removed as part of the development process. Generally, as
few trees as possible should be removed during the development process. If
possible, the developer shall leave healthy trees in place on individual lots
within the subdivision.
   (H)   Landscaping plan. The developer shall submit, as part of the
preliminary plat, a landscape plan for the common areas of the subdivision.
This landscape plan shall include areas such as medians and/or areas where
monument signs are located.
   (I)   Title report required. A title report for all tracts of land within a
proposed subdivision must be submitted with the preliminary plat. Further,
proof of control of, or contract on, all subject property must be submitted
with preliminary plat.
   (J)   Traffic study required. A traffic study shall be required for all
residential and commercial subdivisions. The traffic study shall be submitted
as part of the preliminary plat submittal. If improvements to roads outside of
the subject subdivision are needed, said improvements shall be installed as
required in §
161.022(T) of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 41-2-7) (Ord. 7128, passed 4-28-2008)
§ 161.022 GENERAL DESIGN CRITERIA.
   (A)   Street layout.
      (1)   The street layout shall be in conformity with a plan for the most
advantageous development of the entire neighboring area. All proposed streets
shall be in alignment with existing, planned or platted streets with which they
are to connect, insofar as it is deemed advisable or advantageous by the Plan
Commission.
      (2)   The street layout shall include minor streets of considerable
continuity approximately parallel to and on each side of each main
thoroughfare, boulevard or parkway.
      (3)   Wherever the proposed subdivision contains or is adjacent to a
railroad right-of-way, or superhighway, provision shall be made for a street
approximately parallel to and on each side of such right-of-way at a distance
suitable for the appropriate use of the land between such streets and the
railroad. Such distance shall be determined with due consideration of the
minimum distance required for approach grades to future grade separation.
      (4)   Proposed streets shall be adjusted to the contour of the land so as
to produce usable lots and streets of reasonable gradient.
      (5)   Certain proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary line of
the tract to be subdivided sufficiently to provide for normal circulation of
traffic within the vicinity.
      (6)   Wherever there exists a dedicated or platted half-street or alley
adjacent to the tract to be subdivided and approved by the Plan Commission, the
other portion shall be platted, if in conformity with best usages and future
development.
      (7)   Alleys will be required in all business and industrial districts.
Except where justified by extreme conditions, alleys will not be approved in
residential districts.
   (B)   Blocks.
      (1)   The width of blocks shall be sufficient normally to allow two tiers
of lots of appropriate depth.
      (2)   A utility way, not less than ten feet in width, shall be provided
near the center and entirely across any block that is more than 600 feet long.
   (C)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be provided as follows.
      (1)   (a)   Public sidewalks shall be required for all subdivisions per
the following schedule:
            1.   On at least one side of the street when the overall density of
the subdivision is less than four dwelling units per gross acre; and
            2.   On both sides of the street when the overall density of the
subdivision is greater than four dwelling unit per gross acre;
         (b)   Sidewalks shall be required along both sides of streets used for
pedestrian access to public schools, parks, shopping and commercial areas and
other public and semi-public places as deemed necessary by the Plan Commission.
         (c)   Sidewalks shall be provided on both sides of collector and
arterial streets regardless of density provisions as cited above.
      (2)   The following construction requirements regarding the installation
of required sidewalks shall be followed.
         (a)   Normally, sidewalks shall not be more than six inches from the
property line. Crosswalks or pedestrian ways shall be not less than four feet
wide. In commercial areas, the sidewalk shall be located as far as practical
from the traffic lanes.
         (b)   Sidewalks adjacent to curbs shall not be less than six feet in
width.
         (c)   Sidewalks shall have a minimum unobstructed width of four feet
along residential streets and five feet along major collector streets and in
commercial and industrial areas. All sidewalks shall be installed to comply
with pertinent ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101
et seq.) requirements.
         (d)   Every sidewalk shall be constructed of concrete at least four
inches thickness with the exception that across driveways, the thickness shall
be increased to six inches. Sidewalks shall have a minimum compression strength
of 3,500 PSI after 28 days. The finished surface of all sidewalks shall have a
lightly brushed texture. Control points shall be trowelled in at minimum six-
foot intervals. Expansion joints shall be placed at driveway crossings, at both
ends of the sidewalk and, in the event of excessively long runs, as determined
by the City Engineer.
         (e)   No sidewalk shall be constructed at a grade steeper than 8%
unless steps, and/or ramps, approved by the City Engineer, are provided. The
cross slope shall not exceed 1:50.
      (3)   A developer may, with the concept plan, make written application
for deletion of public sidewalks as may be required in the proposed
subdivision, or submit an alternate sidewalk plan. The Plan Commission shall
review the request for a sidewalk modification and submit its recommendation to
the City Council along with its findings. Modification from the sidewalk
requirements may be granted only in the following cases:
         (a)   Where sidewalks are not deemed necessary for public safety or
where topographical or other conditions make sidewalk installation and use
impractical; and
         (b)   Where the subdivision designer/engineer has submitted for review
a proposed sidewalk plan that provides for more direct and safer movement of
pedestrian traffic.
      (4)   No certificate of compliance will be issued by the city or county
until such time that sidewalks have been installed or included as part of the
obligation of the builder/contractor or owner to complete.
      (5)   In the event that inclement weather prohibits sidewalk completion,
a letter of credit, cash bond or funds placed in escrow at the time of closing
would be provided to the city by the owner/purchaser.
      (6)   At such time that 90% of the lots (street frontage requiring
sidewalks) have been developed with improvements (i.e., homes constructed)
completed or sold, the developer will be required to complete the installation
of the remaining sidewalks as required per the improvement plans as approved by
the city.
      (7)   At such time that lots have been sold or conveyed by the developer,
the owner will be required to complete the sidewalks within 24 months of the
lot being conveyed or sooner if a building permit is secured.
   (D)   Right-of-way widths. Minimum right-of-way widths shall be as follows:
      (1)   Arterial thoroughfares, boulevards, and parkways, as indicated by
the city, county or regional plan: not less than 80 feet;
      (2)   Secondary thoroughfares: 60 feet;
      (3)   Minor streets: 50 feet;
      (4)   Dead end streets: 50 feet. All dead end streets shall not be more
than 500 feet long. All dead end streets shall terminate in a circular open
space having a minimum radius at the outside of the pavement of at least 45
feet and a diameter at the outside of the right-of-way of at least 110 feet;
and
      (5)   Alleys: 20 feet.
   (E)   Roadway width. Minimum roadway widths, back of curb to back of curb,
shall be as follows:
      (1)   Thoroughfares, boulevards, parkways, secondary thoroughfares and
minor streets: 30 feet;
      (2)   Dead end streets shall not be more than 500 feet long. All dead end
streets shall terminate in a circular open space having a minimum radius at the
outside of the pavement of at least 45 feet and a diameter at the outside of
the right-of-way of at least 110 feet; and
      (3)   Alleys: 16 feet.
   (F)   Grades. Grades of streets and walks shall be as follows:
      (1)   Thoroughfares, boulevards, parkways and secondary thoroughfares:
not greater than 7%;
      (2)   Minor streets and alleys: not greater than 10%; and
      (3)   Pedestrian ways or crosswalks: not greater than 10%, unless steps
of an acceptable design are to be constructed.
   (G)   Alignment and visibility. Clear visibility, measured along the
centerline, shall be provided for at least 300 feet on thoroughfares,
boulevards and parkways; 200 feet on secondary thoroughfares; and at least 100
feet on minor streets.
   (H)   Curves. Minimum radii of curvature on the centerline shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Thoroughfares, boulevards and parkways: 300 feet; (Note: Radii of
considerably greater dimension should be used in most instances in the interest
of public safety.)
      (2)   Secondary thoroughfares: 200 feet;
      (3)   Minor streets: 100 feet; and
      (4)   Between reversed curves, there shall always be a tangent at least
100 feet long.
   (I)   Intersections.
      (1)   At street and alley intersections, property line corners shall be
rounded by an arc, the minimum radii of which shall be 25 feet and ten feet,
respectively. In business districts, a chord may be substituted for such an
arc.
      (2)   Street curb intersections shall be rounded by radii of at least 25
feet or by using the same radius points as the property line.
   (J)   Lot areas. The preliminary plat shall contain the statement that any
lot transferred will have a minimum width and area substantially the same as
those of the platted lots, and that only one principal building will be
permitted on any such lot. Each lot created as part of a subdivision under the
terms and conditions of this chapter shall be minimum of 10,000 square feet in
area.
   (K)   Lots. The size, shape and orientation of lots shall be appropriate for
the location of the proposed subdivision and for the type of development
contemplated, and shall conform to the following.
      (1)   Lots for residential use shall meet all requirements set forth in
the zoning classification applicable to the lots.
      (2)   Every lot shall abut on a street or on an officially approved cul-
de-sac.
      (3)   Reversed frontage shall be avoided in blocks exclusively
residential.
      (4)   Side lot lines shall be approximately at right angles to the street
lines on which the lot faces.
      (5)   Flag lots shall not be allowed.
   (L)   Open spaces. Due consideration should be given to the allocation of
suitable areas for parks and open space. Area shall be dedicated to the city,
by means of recording of final plat, as follows.
      (1)   Ten percent of the gross area of a subdivision shall be dedicated
to the city for public use.
      (2)   The city shall have the authority to specify the general location
of open space within a subdivision so that said open space is in accordance
with the Park Master Plan. The location of open space shall be discussed at the
time the concept plan is submitted.
      (3)   Open space dedicated to the city must be of a quality that is
suitable for parks. Land that is located in a floodplain, wetland area or
located on a steep slope (35% or more) shall not be acceptable. Up to 50% of
the required area to be dedicated may include woodlands, lakes, ponds and
streams.
      (4)   If the dedication of land within a subdivision does not fit with
the needs of the Park Master Plan (as determined by the Planning Commission),
the developer shall be required to submit a payment in lieu of open space
dedication (commonly known as “open space fee”). Such payment shall be made to
the Park Improvement Fund and shall be equal to $15,000 per acre of open space
that would be required under division (L)(1) above.
      (5)   Any open space fee shall be noted on the preliminary plat and made
prior to the city approving the final plat of the subdivision.
      (6)   Creative interpretation of the requirements of this section
(division (B) above) will be considered and encouraged, and as such, a
combination of open space dedication and open space fee may be considered, only
if the open space to be dedicated is in accordance with the Park Master Plan.
In the case that the developer combines open space dedication and the open
space fee, not more than 50% of the land that is dedicated may include
wetlands, lakes, ponds and streams.
      (7)   The Planning Commission shall make a recommendation to the City
Council as to whether the creative use of open space proposed is in general
conformance with the Master Park Plan and whether the creative use of open
space proposed should be accepted.
      (8)   If a subdivision is approved in phases, the payment shall be made
before the final plat of each phase of the subdivision is approved by the City
Council. In the case of dedication, and in the case that the subdivision is
platted in phases, the developer shall post with the city a letter of credit
equal to $15,000 per acre of open space to be dedicated before the final plat
of each phase is approved by City Council, until all open space is dedicated.
In the case of combined dedication and open space fee, the developer meet the
requirement by following the procedures described previously in this division
(L)(8).
   (M)   Utility easements. Easements shall be provided as follows:
      (1)   Fifteen feet wide, adjacent to all streets;
      (2)   Not less than ten feet in width on each side of all rear lot lines,
and alongside lot lines where necessary for storm water drainage and/or
municipal and public utilities and/or telecommunication; and
      (3)   A 20-foot easement shall be provided along the perimeter of the
subdivision. Where a subdivision is adjacent to another subdivision or tract of
land that could be subdivided in the future, the subdivider may provide an
easement that is ten feet in width.
   (N)   Subdivision and street names. The proposed name of the subdivision and
proposed street names shall be submitted to postal authorities and to County 9-
1-1 Coordinator. Approval of said street names and subdivision name should be
had before preliminary plat is submitted to the Planning Commission, so that
said street names and subdivision name will not duplicate or too closely
approximate, phonetically, the name of ay other subdivision or street under the
jurisdiction of the city’s post office.
   (O)   Water lines. Where a public water main is reasonably accessible, the
subdivider shall make water available to each lot. Where a public water main is
not reasonably accessible, the subdivider shall place on file with the Plan
Commission, satisfactory evidence that proper arrangements have been made for
the future installation of necessary mains and connections for each lot. All
water lines shall conform to Illinois American Water Company standards.
   (P)   Fire hydrants. Fire hydrants shall be installed every 400 feet. In the
case of a dead end street, fire hydrants shall be located at the throat of a
cul-de-sac. Fire hydrants must be installed and operational prior to the
acceptance of infrastructure and the issuance of any building permits
(including building permits for display homes), as stated in Ord. 7076.
   (Q)   Sewers. Where a public sanitary sewer is reasonably accessible, the
subdivider shall connect with such sanitary sewer and provide a lateral for
each lot, to extend the property line. Where a public sanitary sewer is not
reasonably accessible, but where the plans for the sanitary sewer system of the
district in which the subdivision is located have been prepared by a registered
professional engineer, and approved by the state’s Sanitary Water Board, the
subdivider shall install sewers in conformity with such plans, although a
connection with an existing main may not be immediately practicable. In such
cases, and until such connection is made with the sewer system of the district,
the subdivider shall provide for the disposal of sanitary sewage by a type of
treatment to be approved by the Board. See §
161.037 of this chapter for detailed sanitary sewer requirements.
   (R)   Utilities. All new utilities must be installed underground. A note
addressing this shall be shown on the preliminary plat. If utilities cannot,
within reason, be installed underground (i.e., cost prohibitive), the Planning
Commission may approve a preliminary plat where utilities will be otherwise
installed.
   (S)   Improvements. All improvements required under these rules shall be
constructed according to the specifications of the Plan Commission and under
the supervision of the City Engineer and to his or her satisfaction.
   (T)   Off-site improvements. All costs associated with off-site improvements
shall be borne solely by the developer. All off-site improvements shall be
planned and installed by the developer as part of the improvement plans for the
subdivision. Off-site improvements must be accepted by the City Engineer and
will be included in the performance bond and maintenance bond. If more than one
subdivision in an area requires similar off-site improvements, a cost sharing
agreement may be in the best interest of all parties involved. In this case,
the agreement will be forwarded to the Planning Commission and the City Council
for approval with the improvement plans.
   (U)   Emergency notification system fee. Every subdivision will be assessed
a fee for the purchase and installation of emergency systems (items such as
tornado sirens) for the city. The fee shall be equal to $50 per gross acre in
the proposed subdivision. The fee shall be due before the final plat is
approved by City Council. If a subdivision is approved in phases, the fee shall
be broken down as such and will be due before the final plat of each phase is
approved by City Council.
   (V)   Third party inspection. The developer, before the improvement plans
are approved by City Council, shall provide to the city, 3% of the total
estimated cost of infrastructure, as approved by the City Engineer and Planning
Commission in the form of a cost estimate prepared by the project engineer, for
the express purpose of the city retaining a recognized inspection firm and/or
inspector to monitor and ensure proper installation of all public improvements.
   (W)   Facade treatment regulations. The Planning Commission and City Council
shall have the ability to require specific facade treatments in order for the
subdivision to be compatible with nearby subdivisions.
(1960 Code, § 41-2-8) (Ord. 7128, passed 4-28-2008)
§ 161.023 APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Tentative approval. The Plan Commission shall review and consider all
preliminary plats that are submitted for approval, only if the said preliminary
plat has been filed with all required supplemental material as described in
this chapter. A recommendation of the Plan Commission to the City Council shall
be made regarding accepting, rejecting or modifications that may be required to
approve the preliminary plat. Tentative approval by the City Council is
revocable and does not constitute acceptance of the plat of the proposed
subdivision.
   (B)   Action by the City Council. If the Plan Commission recommends approval
of a preliminary plat, the City Council shall either accept or reject said plat
within 45 days after its next regularly scheduled meeting following the Plan
Commission’s action.
   (C)   Disapproval of plat. In the event that the City Council denies
approval of the preliminary plat, the subdivider shall be notified in writing
of the reasons for said denial. The plat shall not be resubmitted for approval
until such time that the recommended changes or issues for said denial are
addressed.
   (D)   Time limit for preliminary plat. Tentative approval will be effective
for one year, unless upon a request filed with the Plan Commission with such
recommendations presented to and approved by the City Council. If both
improvement plans are not submitted within this time limit, the preliminary
plat shall be null and void, and the applicant must resubmit the plat for
tentative approval as a new subdivision, beginning with the sketch plat
process.
(1960 Code, § 41-2-9) (Ord. 7128, passed 4-28-2008)
§ 161.024 VARIATION IN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Where it can be shown that there are extraordinary hardships in the
way of complete compliance with these regulations, the Plan Commission and City
Council shall have the power to vary the regulations so that substantial
justice may be done and public interest secured. No such variation shall have
the effect of reducing the traffic capacity of any thoroughfare or secondary
thoroughfare below that shown on the city, county or regional plan.
   (B)   The foregoing regulations concerning minor and local street widths,
sizes of lots, block lengths and widths, and dead end streets may be modified
by the Plan Commission in the case of a subdivision of a tract large enough to
be developed as a community of not less than 40 acres in accordance with a well
studied plan, properly safeguarded by restrictions, which, in the judgment of
the Commission, adequately provides for circulation, light and air needs and
recreational requirements of the maximum anticipated population.
(1960 Code, § 41-2-10) (Ord. 7128, passed 4-28-2008)
IMPROVEMENT PLANS
§ 161.035 FORM AND NUMBER OF COPIES.
   (A)   An application for approval of improvement plans available from the
city’s Economic Development and Planning Department, together with four 24-inch
by 36-inch sets of plans and 14 11- inch by 17-inch sets of plans to the
Economic Development and Planning Department no later than five working days
prior to the first Thursday of each month, at which time staff will review the
submitted improvement plans. The Development Review Committee, on the second
Thursday of each month, shall review the submitted plans with the developer and
consulting engineer and shall act upon the preliminary plat. The Development
Review Committee shall act in one of three ways:
      (1)   Recommend approval of plat and forward to Planning Commission;
      (2)   Recommend revisions be made and forward with revisions to the
Planning Commission; or
      (3)   Recommend revisions be made and be submitted to the Development
Review Committee for a second review.
   (B)   The developer shall submit four 24-inch by 36-inch sets of plans and
26 11-inch by 17-inch sets of plans to the Economic Development and Planning
Department for review by the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission will
review the plans, and if it sees fit, forward a recommendation to the City
Council.
   (C)   The developer shall submit two 24-inch by 36-inch sets of plans and 40
11-inch by 17-inch sets of plans to the Economic Development and Planning
Department for review by the City Council.
(1960 Code, § 41-3-1) (Ord. 7128, passed 4-28-2008)
§ 161.036 PERMIT TO BEGIN GRADING AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Permit approval. The City Engineer must approve a permit to begin
grading and construction. Such application for permit shall be made by the
developer to the Engineering Department on the application to install
improvements, available in the City Engineer’s office. Such application may be
approved by the City Engineer only after the improvement plans are approved by
City Council. Further, the application will be approved only after the proper
form of assurance is accepted by the city. (See §§
161.066 and
161.067 of this chapter.)
   (B)   Permit display. The approved application to install improvements must
be prominently displayed at the entrance to the subdivision until all
improvements are accepted by the city. In the case that a subdivision has
multiple entrances, copies of the application must be prominently displayed at
each entrance.
(1960 Code, § 41-3-2) (Ord. 7128, passed 4-28-2008)
§ 161.037 DETAIL OF PLANS.
   Improvement plans shall include the following information:
   (A)   Approved preliminary plat;
   (B)   Grading, excavation and embankment.
      (1)   All excavation and construction of embankments shall be in
accordance with the specifications. The embankment or fills shall be placed in
six-inch layers and thoroughly compacted.
      (2)   The grades of all streets shall not be greater than 10%. Vertical
curves shall be designed for a minimum 30 mph speed limit with a minimum
stopping sight distance of 200 feet. Where curvilinear horizontal alignment is
utilized, the minimum centerline radius shall be 100 feet.
   (C)   Erosion control. No building permit shall be issued unless the
application therefore, particularly the items of information specified in
division (C)(4) below demonstrates compliance with the principles and
demonstrates compliance with the principles and standards set forth in division
(C)(3) below.
      (1)   Purpose.
         (a)   The purpose of this division (C) is to safeguard persons,
protect property, prevent damage to the environment, and promote the public
welfare by guiding, regulating and controlling construction activities which
disturb or break the topsoil or otherwise result in the movement of earth on
land situated in the city.
         (b)   The soil erosion plan and sedimentation control plan, which must
be prepared by the developer, shall be approved by the County Soil and Water
Conservation District and submitted with final construction plans. The
developer will be responsible for implementing and maintaining the plan until
all improvements have been accepted by the city per applicable sections of this
chapter. Should the developer fail to properly implement and maintain the plan,
all inspections will be stopped, thereby effectively stopping all construction
activities, until the developer corrects the infractions or pays the fee
required by the city to have the situation corrected.
      (2)   Exceptions. The provisions of this division (C) shall not apply to
the following construction activities:
         (a)   Excavation of below final grade for the basement and footings of
a single-family residence and appurtenant structures on a site in excess of
three acres;
         (b)   Agricultural use of land, including the implementation of
conservation measures included in farm conservation plan approved by the Soil
and Water Conservation District, and including the construction of agricultural
structures; and
         (c)   Installation, renovation or replacement of a septic or aerobic
system to serve an existing dwelling or structure.
      (3)   Principles and standards. No proposed construction shall be
authorized unless the building permit application indicates that measures taken
to control erosion and sedimentation will be adequate to assure that sediment
or soil is not transported from the building site by any construction
activities or by a storm event of 100-year frequency or less, and that the
following principles will be applicable to all phases of any clearing,
stripping, excavating, filling, grading, construction or other activities
involving the disturbance of the natural terrain or vegetative ground cover.
         (a)   Development should be related to the topography and soils of the
site so as to create the least potential for erosion. Areas of steep slopes
where high cuts and fills may be required should be avoided wherever possible
and natural contours should be followed as closely as possible.
         (b)   Natural vegetation should be retained and protected wherever
possible. Areas immediately adjacent to natural watercourses should be left
undisturbed wherever possible.
         (c)   The smallest practical area of land should be exposed for the
shortest practical time during development.
         (d)   Sediment basins, debris basis, desilting basins or silt traps or
filters should be installed and maintained to remove sediment from run-off
waters from land undergoing development.
         (e)   The selection of erosion and sedimentation control measures
should be based on assessment of the probable frequency of climatic and other
events likely to contribute to erosion and on evaluation of the risks, costs
and benefits involved.
         (f)   In the design of the erosion control facilities and practices,
aesthetics and the requirements of continuing maintenance should be considered.
         (g)   Provisions should be made to accommodate the increased run-off
caused by changed solid and surface conditions during and after development.
Drainageways should be designed so that their final gradients and resultant
velocities of discharges will not create additional erosion.
         (h)   Permanent vegetation shall be installed (or planted) in the soil
covering an area of 25 feet back from the curb immediately (i.e., not more than
30 days) after construction of the street.
         (i)   Construction practices shall be such so that no sediment or soil
is transported from building or development site onto adjacent sidewalks,
curbs, streets or neighboring properties. Erosion control measures shall be
designed in accordance with the standards and requirements contained in
Procedures and Standards for Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control in
Illinois, adopted by the County Soil and Water Conservation District, and the
I.E.P.A. Standards and Specifications for Soil Erosion and Sediment Control,
which standards and requirements are hereby incorporated into this chapter by
reference.
      (4)   Information. Each building or parking lot permit application shall
be accompanied by a site plan as required in § 111.6 of the BOCA Building Code
and include a description of all soil and erosion and sedimentation control
measures to be taken to meet the objectives of this chapter throughout all
phases of construction including lot specific utility company work as well as
permanently after completion of construction on the site. Each permit issued
shall clearly state that the property owner has the ultimate responsibility for
compliance with the provisions of this division (C). The permit application
shall include the name and phone number of the person to be contacted by the
Building Official in case of a problem under this section. Should the person
fail to correct the problem satisfactorily to the Building Official within 12
hours, the official shall hire a contractor to perform the work. In such case,
the property owner shall be responsible for any and all expenses incurred by
the city. Should the Building Official deem the condition to be of such
severity that immediate mitigation is necessary, he or she shall so advise the
contact person and ensure that the hazard is removed. If immediate mitigation
requires the Building Official to hire a contractor to perform the work, the
property owner shall be responsible for any and all expenses incurred by the
city.
      (5)   Maintenance. The maintenance of drainage easements, drainage ways
and drainage systems shall be the responsibility of the lot owner or adjacent
lot owners. No tree or structure shall be placed or erected in any easement for
utility or drainage purposes and the proper authorities may have free access to
and use the easements at any time.
   (D)   Streets. All streets shall be graded as hereinafter provided. All
street construction shall follow guidelines outlined in the most recent edition
of the state’s Department of Transportation’s Standard Specifications for
Roadway and Bridge Construction.
      (1)   All new streets, which are created and dedicated for use within a
subdivision shall be graded, drained and surfaced in accordance with the
minimum requirements hereinbelow set forth, and in a manner which will provide
complete and adequate drainage of all streets, alleys and public grounds in the
entire subdivision; including any such work which may be necessary in order to
provide adequate and satisfactory drainage along the side of any existing
public road or street which lies adjacent to the subdivision.
      (2)   In general, all such new streets within the subdivision and all
work to be undertaken thereon shall be constructed according to the Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, adopted and amended by the
state’s Department of Transportation and the related highway standards, all of
which are in effect at the time the subdivision is being constructed, except as
provided herein.
         (a)   Roadway and side slopes. The roadway shall be considered to be
that part of the improvement which lies between the property lines, and which
roadway shall not be less than 50 feet in width and shall be constructed
substantially in accordance with the typical cross-sections shown on standards
attached to the ordinance codified herein; and turnarounds or cul-de-sacs at
the end of dead-end streets shall be laid out and constructed substantially in
accordance with Standard No. 5 attached to the ordinance codified herein. The
roadway shall be seeded in accordance with Standard Specifications. The
contractor and/or developer shall assume responsibility for maintaining the
roadway, including the seeding, the removal of earth, crushed stone or other
debris from the pavement, curb and gutter and other drainage facilities for a
period one year after acceptance by the city. The contractor or developer shall
take immediate action for compliance upon notification by either the city or
Engineer or the Superintendent of Streets or one of their representatives.
         (b)   Alleys. Alleys shall not be less than 20 feet in right-of-way
width, of which not less than 16 feet in width shall be paved in accordance
with standards and specifications herein provided; except that, such alleys
shall not be required to have concrete curb and gutter.
      (3)   Portland cement concrete pavement. All rigid pavement shall consist
of seven inches of unreinforced portland cement concrete on six inches of lime
modified subgrade. If approved by the City Engineer, four inches of aggregate
sub base may be used in lieu of six inches of lime modified subgrade.
         (a)   Longitudinal joints shall be constructed in accordance with the
Standard Specifications and the illustrations included herein.
         (b)   Transverse joint spacing shall not exceed 15 feet and shall be
constructed in accordance with the Standard Specifications and the
illustrations included therein.
         (c)   Transverse construction joints shall be tied with #4 bars spaced
at 12-inch centers 30 inches long and must be at least five feet from a
contraction or expansion joint.
         (d)   All construction joints shall be sawn or tooled to provide
sufficient reservoir for joint sealer.
         (e)   Pavement expansion joints shall have three-fourths inch diameter
by 18 inches long, smooth dowel bars greased or fitted with end cap providing
two-inch expansion placed 30 inches on center. Expansion joint material to be
equivalent to “Homex-Plus” with bond breaker. After removal of top filler,
joint to be sealed per (6).
         (f)   All joints shall be sealed with hot poured joint sealer, self-
leveling polyurethane sealer, black color or other sealer approved by the City
Engineer.
      (4)   Bituminous concrete pavement.
         (a)   All flexible pavement shall be constructed of two inches of
bituminous concrete surface course Class I - Type 2 on four inches of
bituminous base course on a six-inch lime modified subgrade, in accordance with
the applicable provisions of the standard specifications.
         (b)   Alleys where permitted shall have not less than three inches of
bituminous concrete surface, on eight inches of compacted base course and shall
be constructed in accordance with the standards provided herein.
      (5)   Combination concrete curb and gutter. Combination concrete curb and
gutter shall be built in accordance with the detail shown on Standard No. 2 and
in accordance with the standard specifications.
         (a)   Curb and/or gutter may be constructed monolithically or
separately in conjunction with the portland cement concrete pavement.
            1.   If constructed separately one-half inch round steel tie bars
spaced at 30-inch centers will be required to tie the gutter flag to the PCC
pavement.
            2.   Construction joint between curb and gutter and pavement shall
be sawn or tooled sufficiently to provide reservoir for joint sealer.
            3.   All construction joints to be sealed with hot poured joint
sealant, self-leveling polyurethane sealer black color or other sealer approved
by the City Engineer.
         (b)   Contraction joints and expansion joints shall be installed in
the curb and/or gutter, in prolongation with joints in adjacent PCC pavement.
            1.   Contraction joints, when sawed or template formed, shall be
sealed in accordance with the Standard Specifications.
            2.   Expansion joint filler shall be equal to “Homex-Plus” with
bond breaker. After removal of top filler, expansion joint shall be sealed as
per construction joints.
            3.   A one and one-fourth inch diameter, 18-inch long smooth coated
dowel bar, greased or fitted with end cap providing a minimum of two-inch
expansion shall be placed in the gutter section at each expansion joint. (See
Standard No. 6.)
         (c)   When curb and gutter is constructed adjacent to flexible
pavement, a one-inch expansion joint shall be installed at points of curvature
for short-radius curves and at construction joints.
            1.   Contraction joints shall be placed between expansion joints at
distances not to exceed 25 feet and sealed in accordance with the Standard
Specifications.
            2.   Expansion joints shall be per divisions (D)(5)(b)2. and (D)(5)
(b)3.
         (d)   The flow line of any combination curb and/or gutter section
shall have a fall of at least 0.3 of a foot per 100 lineal feet, except where
vertical curves in the grade line of the street make these provisions
inapplicable with respect to the curb and gutter.
      (6)   Drainage and storm sewers.
         (a)   In addition to the installation of curbs and gutters as required
by division (D)(5) above, the subdivider shall make adequate provisions for the
disposal of storm water throughout the entire subdivision.
         (b)   Facilities shall be provided to satisfactorily accommodate the
surface run-off incident to the ten-year design storm by utilization of the
“rational method” or the “SCS method” or both.
         (c)   Pipe culverts/storm sewer materials and construction shall
conform to the applicable sections of the standard specifications, and shall be
either reinforced concrete pipe meeting the requirements of AASHTOM 170, or
precoated galvanized corrugated steel pipe meeting the requirements of
AASHTOM245 and M246 sheet coated with polymer coating thickness of 0.010 in.
(0.25 mm) on both surfaces, or aluminized steel Type 2 corrugated culvert pipe
and aluminized steel Type 2 corrugated pipe arch meeting the requirements of
AASHTOM274. Bands shall be precoated, the same as pipe culverts, and no metal
pipe joints will be permitted under paved surfaces unless proposed lengths
exceed 40 linear feet and are approved by the City Engineer.
         (d)   The minimum diameter for across road culverts shall be 15
inches.
         (e)   The minimum diameter for storm sewers shall be 12 inches.
         (f)   Minimum gradient shall be 0.3.
      (7)   Inlets/catch basins.
         (a)   Inlets shall be placed at locations required to handle the run-
off within certain design controls and wherever necessary so that surface water
is not carried across any street or intersection.
         (b)   Inlets/catch basins shall be constructed in accordance with
Standard No. 3.
         (c)   Maximum permissible encroachment of water on the pavement shall
be ten feet.
      (8)   Improvements of a higher type. The requirement above set forth,
with respect to street drainage and surfacing, are to be considered as minimum
requirements and nothing contained herein shall be construed to mean that the
subdivider cannot construct or provide improvements of a higher type, if he or
she so desires.
   (E)   Storm water. Storm water management shall be required for all
developments. Any person, firm, corporation or other entity proposing to
construct buildings or develop land within the jurisdiction of the city shall
prepare, for approval by the City Engineer, a Storm Water Management Plan that
described the manner in which erosion, sediment and run-off resulting from the
development will be controlled and managed. No building or construction permits
or plat approval shall be issued by the City until the Storm Water Management
Plan has been approved by the City Engineer as meeting the requirements of this
chapter, or the requirement for such Storm Water Management Plan has been
waived by the City Engineer. Downstream property owners, watercourses, channels
or conduits shall not receive storm water run-off from proposed upstream
developments at a higher peak flow rate than would have resulted from the same
storm event occurring over the site of the proposed development with the land
in its natural, undeveloped conditions, nor shall storm water run-off exceed
the capacity of the natural drainage system.
      (1)   Storm water run-off resulting from a proposed development shall be
detained on-site:
         (a)   By wet or dry bottom reservoirs;
         (b)   By underground reservoirs;
         (c)   On flat roofs, parking lots or streets; or
         (d)   By other detention methods approved by the City Engineer.
      (2)   For purpose of designing adequate on-site detention facilities, the
Illinois State Water Survey rainfall data for this region shall be used.
      (3)   The following general design features shall apply for this chapter.
         (a)   Detention basins. Basins may be constructed to temporarily
detain the storm water run- off so that the rate at which it is released is the
same rate as before development. The following features shall be incorporated
into the design of any detention basin:
            1.   Storage volume:
               a.   The volume of storage provided shall be sufficient to store
flows both during and immediately after the maximum storm event which can be
expected to occur every ten and 100 years.
               b.   After the storage volume has been determined as required
above, a one-foot freeboard shall be added to the dam height.
            2.   Outlet control works:
               a.   Outlet works shall be designed to limit peak outflow rates
from detention storage areas to or below peak flow rates that would have
occurred prior to the proposed development.
               b.   Outlet works shall not include any mechanical components or
devices and shall function without requiring attendance or control during
operation.
            3.   Concrete swale;
            4.   Spillway. Emergency spillways shall be provided to permit the
safe passage of run- off generated from a 100-year storm.
            5.   Maximum depth. The maximum planned depth of storm water stored
shall not normally exceed four feet.
            6.   Side slopes. The maximum side slopes for grassed basins shall
not exceed one foot vertical for two feet horizontal (2:1 slope) for basins
less than equal to four feet deep; for basins greater than four feet deep the
maximum side slope shall not exceed 3:1.
            7.   Limits of ponding. In no case shall the limits of maximum
ponding be closer than 30 feet horizontally from any building and less than two
feet vertically below the lowest sill elevation.
            8.   Interior drainage. The basin bottom should be designed to
drain expeditiously. If the bottom is to be grass, it should have a minimum
slope of 1%.
            9.   Low flow channel. Small flows through the detention basin
should be handled by paved ditches from inflow structure to outflow structure
to minimize erosion.
            10.   Multi-purpose basins. If the detention basin is to have other
uses, the design of the basin bottom should include underdrains to expedite
drying of the bottom between run-off events.
            11.   Aesthetics. Designs should result in aesthetically pleasing
configurations which will enhance public acceptability.
         (b)   Retention ponds. Retention ponds may also be used to temporarily
detain the differential run-off from the development. In addition to the
general design features enumerated above for detention basins, the following
features should also be incorporated into the design of any retention pond.
            1.   Normal pool depth. In order to minimize weed growth, the
normal pool depth should be four feet.
            2.   Depth for fish. If fish are to be kept in the pond, at least
one-quarter of the area of the permanent pool should have a minimum depth of
ten feet.
            3.   Facilities for emptying. In order to ease cleaning of the pond
or shoreline maintenance, the pond design should include provisions for
emptying the pond.
            4.   Low flow bypass. The design of any pond may include a low flow
by-pass channel or pipeline to divert run-off that can be accommodated by
downstream drainageways.
            5.   Bank stabilization. In order to minimize the effects of waves
or ice, some type of bank stabilization such a rip-rap or concrete should be
placed along the normal pool shoreline.
            6.   Side slopes below normal pool. The side slopes below the
normal pool elevation may exceed the maximum side slope permitted above normal
pool. The design shall, however, include provisions for a safety ledge having a
depth of water not greater than three feet immediately adjacent to the
shoreline.
         (c)   Rooftop storage. Detention storage may be met in total or in
part by detention on roofs. Details of such design, which shall be included in
the building permit application, shall include the depth the volume of storage,
details of outlet devices and downdrains, elevations of overflow scuppers,
design loadings for the roof structure and emergency overflow provisions.
Direct connection of roof drains to sanitary sewers is prohibited.
         (d)   Parking lot storage. Paved parking lots may be designed to
provide temporary detention storage of storm water on all or a portion of their
surfaces. Outlets will be designed so as to slowly empty the stored waters and
depths of storage must be limited so as to prevent damage to parked vehicles.
         (e)   Other detention methods. All or a portion of the detention
storage may also be provided in underground or surface detention facilities, to
include basins, tanks or swales and the like.
      (4)   Designs of detention facilities shall incorporate safety features,
particularly at outlets, on steep slopes and at any attractive nuisances to
include, as necessary, fencing, hand rails, lighting, steps, grills, signs and
other protective or warning devices so as to restrict access during critical
periods and to afford some measure of safety to both authorized and
unauthorized persons.
      (5)   The provisions of this subchapter shall be applicable in the
following areas:
         (a)   Any residential development having a gross aggregate of five
acres or more;
         (b)   Any residential development of less than five acres with a 50%
impervious surface including roads, building, utility right-of-way and other
improvements; or
         (c)   Any commercial, industrial, institutional or utility development
having a gross aggregate area of one acre or more.
      (6)   The storm water detention facilities shall be built in conjunction
with the storm sewer installation and be fully operational after the cleaning
of vegetation.
         (a)   Silt and debris connected with early construction shall be
removed periodically from the detention area to maintain full storage capacity.
         (b)   The maintenance responsibility of the detention area shall
remain with the developer and/or contractor until final inspection and
applicable escrows are released.
         (c)   Before final plat approval, the developer shall submit his or
her commitment for future maintenance responsibility of the detention area.
      (7)   When applicable, the provisions of this division (E) shall be
reviewed by the City Engineer to assure compliance.
   (F)   Sanitary sewers.
      (1)   General requirements. In order to promote unified development of
sanitary sewers, faster and more efficient plan review and subsequent
acceptance of sewers, the following guidelines shall be established and
included on plans.
         (a)   Sewer line installation shall not commence until a water
pollution control permit and complete set of plans have been approved by the
Environmental Protection Agency of the state and the city and are on file in
the office of the Director of Wastewater Plant and Sewer Lines.
         (b)   The contractor is responsible for contracting the Wastewater
Division at least 48 hours prior to installing sanitary sewers, and before
performing any sanitary sewer testing.
         (c)   The contractor will be required to jet and clean all storm and
sanitary sewers that collect mud, debris, concrete, building supplies and the
like while the work is under the responsibility of the contractor.
         (d)   All laterals shall be furnished with an air tight cap to
facilitate air testing. The PVC lateral shall be extended four feet above the
finished grade ground surface to allow relocation of the lateral in the future.
The builder/developer is responsible for all capped service laterals throughout
build out of the development. Broken laterals will be promptly repaired.
         (e)   The builder/developer is responsible for all manhole elevations
throughout build out of the development. No manhole covers can be covered.
Location signs for manholes to be provided by contractor.
         (f)   Disclaimer that neither the city accepts responsibility for the
project design and/or construction of this project nor any other design
consideration or standard utilized in this project. The permittee and the
design engineer are responsible for meeting or exceeding all pertinent federal,
state or local codes or standards both on and off the site.
         (g)   All traffic control shall be the responsibility of the
contractor until the city accepts the project improvements. All warning signs,
traffic-control signs and regulatory signs shall conform to the state’s
Department of Transportation Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices.
         (h)   The contractor shall leave the site in a condition equal to pre-
construction conditions. The contractor shall not disturb property outside of
this area.
         (i)   All work and construction activities shall be confined to the
right-of-way and easement, if applicable. The contractor shall not disturb
property outside of this area. Should property outside the right-of-way be
disturbed or damaged, the contractor shall be responsible for restoring the
property to its original condition to the satisfaction of the property owner,
with no additional compensation.
         (j)   A 15-foot minimum sewer easement will be required. However,
wider easements may be required due to the depth of pipe and pipe diameters as
determined by the city.
         (k)   At creek crossings or near creek embankments, contractor shall
provide filter mat (as specified in IDOT standard specifications) and shall be
installed in accordance with manufacturer’s instructions. Rip rap shall also be
provided and installed in accordance with IDOT Standard Specifications.
         (l)   The contractor shall be responsible for repair of all
underground facilities, utilities and drain tile damaged during construction.
         (m)   The contractor shall supply submittals for all equipment and
appurtenances to the Wastewater Director and City Engineer for approvals, three
copies will be retained by the city.
         (n)   The contractor shall provide record drawings which shall be
submitted to the Wastewater Department and City Engineer’s office. Sewer
connections shall be recorded by measuring the number of feet from the
downstream manhole, and shall indicate the length of offset from the sanitary
sewer main and depth of lateral at its terminus point. All structures shall
have record elevations.
         (o)   Sewer tap permits will not be issued until after the underground
plumbing inspection has passed. All rough-in plumbing above grade will be
capped. Floor drains will be temporarily sealed with a screw-in type plug and
commercial grade duct tape. Tap-ins will be rejected due to non- conformance
with these requirements.
      (2)   Specifications.
         (a)   Sanitary sewer pipe material shall be ductile-iron or at a
minimum SDR 26 PVC pipe meeting the requirement of the latest edition of the
Illinois Standard Specifications for water and sewer main installation. Joint
material for PVC pipe shall meet the requirements of ASTM D3212. Ductile-iron
pipes shall have gray-iron or ductile-iron fittings as per the Standard
Specifications. Lubricant shall be suitable for lubricating the joint
components. It shall have no deteriorating effect on the gasket or pipe
material and no detrimental effect on the quality of wastewater to be carried
by the pipe.
         (b)   Sanitary sewer pipe bedding shall be Class A crushed gravel or
stone conforming to IDOT Graduation CA-7 and shall be installed per ASTM 2321-
83A.
         (c)   All sanitary sewer manholes shall be constructed of precast
concrete and conform to ASTM castings ASTM A48-83 Class 35B, or ASTM A536-80
Grade 65-45-12 for ductile-iron. Cones and sections shall be substantially free
from fractures, large or deep cracks and surface roughness. Joints shall be
sealed with Ran-neck pre-molded joint sealer or equivalent. Sanitary sewer
manhole lids shall have the word “Sanitary” cast in the face and be furnished
with a concealed “Pick Hole”. Sanitary sewer manhole frame and covers shall be
Neenah R-1772 or equivalent. In areas subject to flooding, sanitary sewer
manhole frame and covers shall be Neenah R-1915 bolt down lids. All sanitary
sewer manholes located in or adjacent to drainage ways shall have the frames
elevated to one foot above the 100-year water surface elevation.
         (d)   Manholes shall be constructed with a silica fume admixture
specifically to prevent hydrogen sulfide corrosion of the pre-cast concrete.
Submittals detailing the type of silica fume admixture and its suitability for
this application shall be submitted to the Wastewater Director for approval.
Rheomac SF-100TM and Rheobuild 1000TM or approved equals shall be used in the
manufacture of the manhole component sections.
         (e)   Sewer pipe connections shall be flexible water tight connections
conforming with ASTM C-923 “standard specifications for resilient connectors
between reinforced concrete manhole structures and pipe”. The pre-cast base
section shall be monolithically constructed with a pre-cast invert to align all
sewer pipes to the elevations as shown on the plans.
         (f)   If a gasketed connection does not exist, all connections to
existing manholes shall be made by means of a mechanical cutting device. The
device shall leave a round smooth hole, no larger than one-half inch greater
than the outside diameter of the sanitary sewer pipe to be inserted. The
cutting device shall also be capable of forming/cutting the necessary channel
within the interior of the manhole. No pneumatic jack hammers, hand held saws
or sledge hammers shall be allowed. The opening shall be sealed with a Link
Seal or other approved mechanical device.
         (g)   When connections are to be made to existing structures, the
contractor shall field verify the location and elevations of the structure
prior to making the connection. The contractor shall notify the owner and
engineer if the existing structures are found to be different than shown on the
drawings.
         (h)   Protection of the water main from sanitary sewer mains is
required and shall be made in accordance with latest edition of Title 25:
Environmental Protection, Subtitle F: Public Water Supplies, Ch. 11:
Environmental Protection Agency, § 653.119: Protection of Water Main and Water
Service Lines. The water and sewer main as delineated on the drawings shall be
constructed with a minimum of ten feet horizontal separation and one and one-
half foot vertical separation.
         (i)   Steel casing pipe shall meet or exceed ASTM A-139, Grade B. Pipe
joints shall be welded in accordance with AWWA C-206. The interior and exterior
of the bore casing shall be coated with a minimum of one mil of bituminous
asphaltic material.
         (j)   Casing spacers shall be Model CCS as manufactured by Cascade
Waterworks MFG of Yorkville, IL or prior approved equal. Carrier pipe shall be
inserted within a casings 30 inches in diameter or larger, with six-foot
spacing; also, a spacer shall be placed so at to support the carrier within two
feet of the end of the casing pipe.
         (k)   Rubber end seals shall be installed at ends of the casing.
Cascade Waterworks MFG of Yorkville, IL or approved equal shall manufacture
seals.
      (3)   Testing.
         (a)   A visual inspection, including lamping, shall be made of all
gravity flow lines; and all obstructions shall be removed. Any sewer showing
less than one-half the cross sectional area of the pipe between adjacent
manholes or other undue deviation from line and grade shall be considered as
unsatisfactory and shall be repaired by the contractor without additional
compensation.
         (b)   Testing of sanitary sewers for acceptability shall be conducted
by the exfiltration by air testing technique. The contractor shall be required
to test all gravity sewer mains. All testing shall be in conformance with the
air testing techniques as specified in the latest edition of the state’s
Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction. The city
requires that pressure “hold” in the pipe for double the time limit listed in
the Standard Specifications.
         (c)   The gravity sewer lines (excluding service laterals) shall be
tested for excess deflection by pulling a mandrel through the pipe from manhole
to manhole.
            1.   The outside diameter of the test mandrel shall be equal to 95%
of the original inside diameter of the pipe being used. The individual lines to
be tested shall be so tested no sooner than 30 days after they have been
installed. Wherever possible and practical, the testing shall initiate at the
downstream lines and proceed towards the upstream lines.
            2.   Where deflection is found to be in excess of 5% of the
original pipe diameter, the contractor shall excavate to the point of excess
deflection and carefully compact around the point where excess deflection was
found. The line shall be retested for deflection. However, should be deflected
pipe fail to return to the original size (inside diameter) after the corrective
measures, the line shall be replaced. The entire system shall be tested.
Deflection testing and possible repair and replacement, as stated above, shall
be incidental to the construction of sewer pipe; and no additional compensation
will be provided. Any repaired sections will require video inspection at
contractors cost.
         (d)   Upon request from the Wastewater Director, an approved company
shall televise all sanitary sewer mains. An electronic video copy denoting the
manhole number, distance between laterals and manholes shall be depicted on the
video. The manhole number on the video shall be the manhole number shown on the
plans for the development and the corresponding city designated manhole number.
A report in eight and one-half inch by 11-inch format shall be submitted
detailing the results of the video. The video and the report shall identify all
observed construction deficiencies, pipe material flaws and the like. The
report and a copy of the video shall be submitted to the office of the
Wastewater Director.
         (e)   Vacuum testing of manholes shall conform to ASTM C-1244-93
standard method for concrete sewer manholes by negative air pressure. All
sanitary sewer manholes shall be vacuum tested. Manholes that fail this test
will be excavated, cleaned and all joints shall be wrapped on the outside with
nine-inch RUB’R-NEK concrete joint wrap or equivalent.
         (f)   A copy of all testing results, showing a minimum of the initial
test pressure, final test pressure, the duration of the test, fail or pass, and
mandril results shall be submitted to the Wastewater Director prior to final
acceptance of the development. The test results shall be certified by a
licensed engineer.
         (g)   All tests shall be conducted in the presence of a representative
of the city. Twenty-four hours’ notice shall be given prior to commencing any
tests.
      (4)   Lift station/force main requirements.
         (a)   All subdivision developers will make every attempt to plan and
design sanitary sewage systems for gravity flow to the city’s existing sewage
system.
         (b)   If gravity flow is not possible, a sewage pumping station will
be required and must be built to the city’s sewage pump station specifications
on file at the Wastewater Division Office. Pump station design and
specifications will be strictly enforced.
         (c)   All work, installation, procedures, materials, testing and the
like for sanitary sewer shall conform to the Standard Specifications (water,
storm and sanitary). Sanitary sewer force mains shall be polyvinyl chloride
(PVC) sewer pipe conforming to ASTM D-2241 with an SDR-26 and joints conforming
to ASTM 3132. Tracer wire will be buried with all force main pipe.
         (d)   Ductile-Iron flanged pipe shall conform to ANSI/AWWA A21.10/C151
Class 52. The coating shall be applied to the outside of all pipes, unless
otherwise noted. The inside coating shall be lined with 40 mil nominal dry film
of “Protecto 401” or “Polybond Plus”. The weight, class or nominal thickness,
and casting period shall be shown on each pipe. Joints shall be in conformance
with ANSI/AWWA B16.1/C110.
         (e)   Sanitary sewer force main pipe bedding shall be Class A crushed
gravel or stone, conforming to IDOT Graduation CA-7, and shall be installed per
ASTM 2321-89.
         (f)   The contractor shall keep existing sewer facilities in operation
during construction of the proposed facilities.
         (g)   When connections are to be made to existing structures, the
contractor shall field verify the location and elevations of the structure
prior to making the connection. The contractor shall notify the owner and
engineer if the existing structures are found to be different than shown on the
drawings.
         (h)   Protection of the water main from sanitary sewer is required and
shall be made in accordance with the latest edition of Title 35: Environmental
Protection, Subtitle F Public Water Supplies, Ch. 11: Environmental Protection
Agency, § 653.119: Protection of Water Main and Water Service Lines. The water
and sewer main as delineated on the drawings shall be constructed with a
minimum of ten feet horizontal separation and one and one-half foot vertical
separation.
         (i)   The force main shall be hydrostatic pressure tested at a
pressure of 50 PSI and a leakage test shall be performed both in accordance §
41-2.13, Pressure Testing of Water Mains, of the state’s Standard Specification
for Water and Sewer Main Construction.
         (j)   Tracer wire shall be THWN Soft Drawn No. 12 Copper and shall be
connected to all valves and brought up, looped and fastened at the top for
accessibility. Tracer wire shall be extended up all valve pits and boxes and
fastened to the side of the pit or box to insure that the tracer wire will not
become tangled around the valve wrench and broken.
         (k)   Splicing kits will be used for all splices in the tracer wire.
For splices that will be buried or exposed to water 3M DBY/DBR Direct Bury
Splice Kits shall be used. #M Scotchlok R splicing kits will be installed at
dry locations.
         (l)   Contractor shall perform a conductivity test on the tracer wire
after installation by the direction of the city. All testing is to be observed
by the city.
         (m)   Should the tracer wire not pass testing, the contractor shall
make the necessary repairs without additional compensation for the tracer wire
to pass the test.
      (5)   Submittals. The following are additional requirements:
         (a)   Construction plans. The above shall contain complete information
on connection to the existing sewer system, sizes, slopes, proposed rim and
invert elevations, topography, right-of-way, existing easements, proposed
easements and a visual representation of the 100-year flood elevation;
         (b)   Two additional sets, above the number you wish returned, of the
EPA permit application. Applications must be signed by permittee, and signed
and sealed by the design engineer; and
         (c)   Two CD-ROMs containing drawing files of the following in the
latest Auto CAD and PDF formats (to be verified with city prior to submission):
            1.   Boundary, lot lines, sewers, rights-of-way and easements;
            2.   Sewer plan and profiles; and
            3.   Provide state plane coordinates of two points on the
development.
      (6)   Construction.
         (a)   The permittee shall notify the City Wastewater Division of the
date and schedule of construction.
         (b)   Proper dewatering of the sewer trench is the responsibility of
the contractor. Dewatering into the city’s sewer system is strictly forbidden.
Connection(s) to the city’s existing sewer system will be plugged and set over
manholes will not be broken open until all sewers have been installed,
inspected and approved.
         (c)   The city requires that the permittee retain a qualified licensed
professional engineer to observe the sewer construction periodically, to
determine conformance with plans and specifications.
      (7)   Acceptance. Prior to accepting the sanitary sewers, the following
items shall be completed/submitted.
         (a)   All, air, mandrel, video inspection and manhole tests completed
and results submitted. These must be sealed by a professional engineer. All
lines must be jet cleaned prior to tests.
         (b)   If applicable, sewer pumping stations must be operational. All
testing and start up reports must have passed, be certified by the pump
manufacturer and design engineer, and on file at the office of the Wastewater
Director.
         (c)   A notarized certification, to be delivered to the office of the
Director of Wastewater Plant and Sewer Lines, by the installing contractor that
he or she has installed all the sewers and treatment facilities in accordance
with the permits, plans as stated in Section 1 of this code.
         (d)   Upon completion of the project as shown on the approved plans,
submission of two 25-inch by 36-inch and three 11-inch by 17-inch record
drawings (as-builts) showing constructed manhole invert elevations and exact
locations of manholes, service laterals and tee/wye locations referenced to
downstream manhole. Size and type of pipe shall also be on the drawings. All
data provided shall be geographically referenced to the Illinois State Plane
West (US Feet) coordinate system. Furthermore, all data shall be provided in a
format compatible with the city’s GIS system. Acceptable formats include
.DWG’s, shape files and geo-databases. If possible, multiple formats shall be
provided to the city.
         (e)   Upon completion of the project after all required testing has
been done, a final inspection will be made by city personnel. The final
inspection will not be conducted until “Record” plans are submitted. Final
inspection will be made at the requests of the owner. Defects noted must be
corrected and a reinspection made before acceptance. Improvements found not as
depicted on the submitted “Record” plans shall be rejected.
         (f)   After all defects, if any were noted during final inspection,
have been corrected and prior to any sewer permits being issued, a maintenance
bond in an amount equal to 50% of the construction cost shall be filed with the
City Clerk. The bond shall be for a period of three years, commencing on the
date of final inspection or reinspection if necessary, and shall cover all
defects in materials and workmanship. The bond shall be binding on the
developer or the contractor.
         (g)   All easements gathered by the permittee(s), across private
property that is not contained within their development, shall be assigned/
conveyed to the city by the permittee(s) free and clear of any and all liens
and encumbrances without cost to the city.
         (h)   At the time of acceptance of the sewer extension, title to it
shall be transferred and conveyed to the city, by the permittee(s) free and
clear of any and all liens and encumbrances, without cost the city. Upon
expiration of the permittee’s maintenance bond (three years after acceptance of
the sewers), the city shall assume all costs of maintenance and repair of such
extension.
         (i)   No sewer tap permits will be allowed until all applicable
requirements have been completed and a letter of acceptance has been received
from the Director of Sewer Plants and Sewer Lines.
   (G)   Monument sign. The developer shall be required to submit with the
improvement plans, detailed construction plans for ay and all signs for the
subdivision. Said plans shall include location map, sign construction plan,
landscaping and lighting details.
   (H)   Street lights. The developer shall submit with improvement plans a
play detailing photometrics of the streetlights proposed. The plan should
include location of street lights and detail showing the type of light and pole
to be installed, as well as a photometrics plan.
   (I)   Street signs. Aluminum street signs must be installed by and at the
expense of developers of subdivisions in accordance with the size and standards
of street signs now in use or hereafter used in the city or ornamental street
signs only as approved by City Council.
   (J)   Traffic control. All traffic-control devices, including stop lights,
stop signs and the like, shall be installed at the expense of the developer, in
accordance with the size and standards now in use or hereafter used in the city
or ornamental street signs only as approved by City Council.
   (K)   Street entrance. Permission must be first obtained from the City
Engineer for the entrance or connection of a new street or public way to any
existing street or public way.
   (L)   Culverts. The size, location and grade of culverts, where necessary,
shall be determined by the City Engineer; provided, however, that, nothing less
than a 12-inch culvert shall be installed.
   (M)   Drainage easements.
      (1)   Easements for the purpose of draining surface water from public
streets and across shall be provided. Drainage through these easements shall be
over paved or tiled surface ways or in culvert/storm sewer systems, place at
the proper grade to facilitate the flow of water; provided, development of a
site cannot begin until a soil erosion and sedimentation control plan has been
prepared by the developer and approved by the County Soil and Water
Conservation District. This shall be a condition of improvement plan approval.
The developer will be responsible for implementing and maintaining the plan
until all improvements have been accepted by the city per applicable sections
of this chapter.
      (2)   The provisions of the section shall not apply to the following
construction activities:
         (a)   Excavation of below final grade for the basement and footings of
a single-family residence and appurtenant structures on a site in excess of
three acres; and
         (b)   Agricultural use of land, including the implementation of
conservation measures included in farm conservation plan approved by the Soil
and Water Conservation District, and including the construction of agricultural
structures.
   (N)   Electronic copy. The developer shall provide to the City Engineer as-
built drawings (mylar and electronic) for all sanitary sewer systems, storm
sewer systems, and water distribution systems. Said as-built drawings will be
required to be submitted before the City Council approves the final plat. If
the developer files a performance bond in order to approve the final plat prior
to acceptance and dedication of improvements, the drawings shall be submitted
prior to the city’s acceptance of improvements.
   (O)   Maintenance during construction. During construction of the
improvements, the developer and his or her contractors will not be allowed to
let mud accumulate on street or let grass or weeds grow taller than eight
inches. (See §
93.021 of this code of ordinances.)
   (P)   Construction entrance staging area. For each phase of construction,
the improvement plans must show the area of the subdivision on which
construction equipment will be stored. The improvement plans must also show, or
describe, the ingress/egress plan for construction equipment. Construction
entrances that have the least impact on neighboring properties should be used
whenever possible.
(1960 Code, § 41-3-3) (Ord. 7128, passed 4-28-2008)
FINAL PLAT
§ 161.050 FORM AND NUMBER OF COPIES.
   (A)   An application for approval of the final plat, available from the
city’s Economic Development and Planning Department, together with 14 11-inch
by 17-inch copies and four 24-inch by 36-inch sets of the final plat to the
Economic Development and Planning Department no later than five working days
before the meeting of the first Thursday of each month, at which time staff
will review the submitted preliminary plat. The Development Review Committee,
on the second Thursday of each month, shall review the submitted plat with the
developer and consulting engineer and shall act upon the final plat. The
Development Review Committee shall review the submitted final plat and act in
one of three ways:
      (1)   Recommend approval of plat and forward to Planning Commission;
      (2)   Recommend revisions be made and forward to Planning Commission; or
      (3)   Recommend revisions be made and be submitted to the Development
Review Committee for a second review.
   (B)   (1)   The developer shall submit 24 11-inch by 17-inch copies of the
final plat and four 24-inch by 36-inch copies of the final plat to the Economic
Development to the Economic Development and Planning Department at least two
weeks prior to the Planning Commission meeting at which the plat will be
considered.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall review the plat and recommend it be
considered by City Council if it sees fit.
   (C)   The developer shall submit 40 11-inch by 17-inch copies and two full
size copies of the final plat to the Economic Development and Planning
Department for review by the City Council.
(1960 Code, § 41-4-1) (Ord. 7128, passed 4-28-2008)
§ 161.051 SCALE AND DETAIL OF PLAT.
   The final plat shall be drawn to the scale of one inch equal to 100 feet or
less and shall show:
   (A)   The boundary lines with accurate distances and bearings, the exact
location and width of all existing or recorded streets intersecting the
boundary of the tract;
   (B)   Bearings and distances to the nearest established street lines or
official monuments, which shall be accurately described on the plat; municipal,
township, county or section lines accurately tied to the lines of the
subdivision by distances and bearings;
   (C)   An accurate location of the subdivision in reference to the real
estate records of the county;
   (D)   Street and alley names;
   (E)   The length of all arcs, radii, internal angles, points of curvature,
length and bearing of the tangents;
   (F)   All easements for rights-of-way provided for public services or
utilities and any limitations of the easements;
   (G)   All lot numbers and lines with accurate dimensions in feet and
hundredths and with bearings and angles to street and alley lines;
   (H)   The accurate location, material and approximate size of all monuments;
   (I)   The accurate outline of all property which is offered for dedication
for public use with the purpose indicated thereon;
   (J)   Setback building lines;
   (K)   Private restrictions;
   (L)   Boundaries of each type of use restriction;
   (M)   Other private restrictions for each definitely restricted section of
the subdivision;
   (N)   Proposed name of the subdivision;
   (O)   Name and address of the subdivider;
   (P)   North point, scale and date;
   (Q)   Certification of any application filed with the City Council for
sewers and water extensions required under these rules, signed by the City
Clerk;
   (R)   Certification by a registered professional civil surveyor to the
effect that the plan represents a survey to the effect that the plan represents
a survey made by him or her and that all the monuments shown thereon actually
exist, and that their location, size and material are correctly shown;
   (S)   Each plat shall provide for easements as indicated in §
161.022(M) of this chapter to service all the lots of said subdivision with
utilities and any other municipal services. Easements of greater width may be
required before final approval of a plat will be given when said easements are
necessary; and
   (T)   All final plats shall provide adequate easements for storm water
drainage along any natural drainage channel and in such other location as may
be necessary to provide satisfactory disposal of storm water from streets,
alleys and all other portions of the subdivisions.
      (1)   Locations and minimum widths of such easements shall be determined
by the City Engineer.
      (2)   The maintenance of these drainage easements and their drainage
systems shall be the responsibility of the lot owner or adjacent lot owners and
shall be so stated in all types of conveyances.
      (3)   No tree or structure shall be placed or erected in any easement for
utility or drainage purposes and the proper authorities may have fee access to
and use the easements at any time.
(1960 Code, § 41-4-3) (Ord. 7128, passed 4-28-2008)
§ 161.052 STREET DEDICATION.
   The approval of the final plat by the Plan Commission shall not be deemed to
constitute or effect an acceptance by the public of the dedication of any
street, or other proposed public way or space shown on the plat.
(1960 Code, § 41-4-4) (Ord. 7128, passed 4-28-2008)
§ 161.053 RECORDING PLAT.
   Approval of the final plat by the Plan Commission shall be null and void if
the plat is not recorded within 30 days after the date of City Council
approval, unless application for an extension of time is made in writing to the
Commission during the 30-day period and granted.
(1960 Code, § 41-4-5) (Ord. 7128, passed 4-28-2008)
ASSURANCE OF COMPLETION
§ 161.065 FINAL PLAT APPROVAL.
   The City Council shall not approve any final plat of a subdivision within
the city limits (and, hence, said final plat shall not be entitled to
recording) until:
   (A)   All improvements required in the approved preliminary plat and
improvement plans have been completed by the subdivider/developer, and
inspected and accepted by the City Engineer; or
   (B)   Street addresses have been assigned to the lots on the plat by the
County 9-1-1 Office and said plat has been signed off by the Coordinator of the
County 9-1-1 Office approving said street addresses.
(1960 Code, § 41-5-1) (Ord. 7128, passed 4-28-2008)
§ 161.066 FORMS OF ASSURANCE.
   The required legal assurance for the installation of infrastructure shall be
a performance bond. Every performance bond may be reviewed by the City
Attorney. Each performance bond shall be posted with the City Clerk.
(1960 Code, § 41-5-2) (Ord. 7128, passed 4-28-2008)
§ 161.067 AMOUNT OF BOND.
   The amount of the performance bond shall be equal to 110% of the estimated
cost of the infrastructure that remains to be installed. The amount shall be
estimated by the developer or his or her engineer and submitted with the
improvement plans to the City Engineer and the Planning Commission for review
and approval.
(1960 Code, § 41-5-3) (Ord. 7128, passed 4-28-2008)
§ 161.068 ELIGIBLE SURETIES.
   (A)   No person shall be eligible to act as a surety unless he or she has
been approved by the City Treasurer.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall conduct spot audits of all sureties.
   (C)   Any surety who fails to perform shall be ineligible to act as a surety
for any subdivision improvements within the city’s jurisdiction for a period of
two years.
(1960 Code, § 41-5-4) (Ord. 7128, passed 4-28-2008)
§ 161.069 TERM OF ASSURANCE, EXTENSION.
   (A)   The initial term of any performance bond or escrow agreement shall not
exceed two years.
   (B)   If all the required improvements have not been completed by the end of
the two-year period, the City Engineer may either extend said bond/escrow
agreement for one year or may proceed as provided in §
161.070 of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 41-5-5) (Ord. 7128, passed 4-28-2008)
§ 161.070 RELEASE OF BOND/ESCROW DEPOSIT.
   The performance bond/escrow deposit shall not be released until:
   (A)   The City Engineer has determined that all required improvements have
been satisfactorily completed; and
   (B)   Said improvements have been accepted by the City Engineer and any
other agency having jurisdiction.
(1960 Code, § 41-5-6) (Ord. 7128, passed 4-28-2008)
§ 161.071 FAILURE TO COMPLETE IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   If all the required improvements have not been completed by the end of
the two-year period or three-year period, in the case of an extension, the City
Engineer shall:
      (1)   Require the surety to perform on the bond and to pay to the city an
amount equal to the cost of completing the required improvements (as estimated
by the City Engineer) or the amount of the bond not heretofore released,
whichever is less;
      (2)   Order the City Treasurer to retain all escrowed funds needed to
complete all the required improvements, and to return the balance if any of
such funds to the subdivider/developer; or
      (3)   Require the subdivider/developer to submit a new performance bond/
escrow deposit in an amount sufficient to cover any increase in the cost of
constructing the required improvements.
   (B)   If the surety fails to perform on the bond or the escrow agent fails
to remit within 30 days after written request, the City Engineer shall direct
the City Attorney to take immediate action to require performance.
(1960 Code, § 41-5-7) (Ord. 7128, passed 4-28-2008)
§ 161.072 MAINTENANCE GUARANTEE.
   (A)   Subsequent to completion and prior to final acceptance, the
subdivider/developer shall furnish the Planning Commission with a statement,
signed and sealed by a professional engineer, licensed in the state, stating
that all improvements have been done per city standards. The subdivider/
developer shall also post a maintenance bond or irrevocable letter of credit
with the City Clerk in a form approved by the City Attorney, prior to final
acceptance.
   (B)   The bond shall be in an amount determined by the City Engineer to be
sufficient to guarantee the satisfactory condition of the required improvements
for a period of three years.
   (C)   If, at any time during the guarantee period, the improvements are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the subdivider’s
expense.
   (D)   The subdivider’s/developer’s maintenance bond or irrevocable letter of
credit will only be released upon final inspection of any repairs deemed
necessary by the City Engineer.
   (E)   It shall be the subdivider’s/developer’s responsibility to request a
final inspection 60 days and not later than 30 days before the end of the
guarantee period. Maintenance bond or irrevocable letter of credit expirations
terms shall specifically state that assurances will be in effect until
officially released by the City Engineer in writing.
   (F)   (1)   Any acts of maintenance on street improvements by the city shall
not be construed as acceptance by the city.
      (2)   ACTS OF MAINTENANCE include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Snow removal;
         (b)   Payment of energy charges on street lights; and
         (c)   Installation and repair of street signs.
   (G)   (1)   Should the developer choose to purchase materials using the city
tax exemption number, the professional engineer, required under this section,
who certifies the improvements and the developer, shall certify that all
materials purchased using the city tax exemption number were either for roadway
and storm water systems incorporated into the right-of-way dedicated to the
city or for sanitary sewer systems lines and manholes which will be maintained
by the city.
      (2)   The developer shall also furnish the city with copies of all
material delivery tickets for which the tax exemption number was used.
(1960 Code, § 41-5-8) (Ord. 7128, passed 4-28-2008)
DOCUMENTATION REQUIRED
§ 161.085 ELECTRONIC COPY.
   The developer shall be required to submit electronic copies of work approved
during the subdivision process. The following sections describe what type of
information is required during which stage of the platting process.
(1960 Code, § 41-6-1) (Ord. 7128, passed 4-28-2008)
§ 161.086 FORMAT.
   All electronic documentation required to be submitted shall be submitted on
a CD or DVD in AutoCAD 2000i format. All layers shall be tied to the State
Plane Coordinate System NAD 1983.
(1960 Code, § 41-6-2) (Ord. 7128, passed 4-28-2008)
§ 161.087 PAPER COPIES.
   Paper copies of plats and plans are required as described below.
(1960 Code, § 41-6-3) (Ord. 7128, passed 4-28-2008)
§ 161.088 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The developer shall provide to the Economic Development and Planning
Department an electronic copy of the preliminary plat. Further, the developer
shall provide one 24-inch by 36-inch copy of the preliminary plat to the
Economic Development and Planning Department with the electronic copy. Such
information shall be submitted to the Economic Development and Planning
Department before the preliminary plat is approved by City Council.
(1960 Code, § 41-6-4) (Ord. 7128, passed 4-28-2008)
§ 161.089 AS-BUILTS.
   The developer shall provide to the Economic Development and Planning
Department an electronic copy of as builts for improvements such as storm
sewer, sanitary sewer and streets. Further, the developer shall provide the
Economic Development and Planning Department one paper copy of as builts. Such
information shall be provided after improvements are accepted by the city, but
before the City Council approves the final plat. Additionally, the developer
shall be required to provide sanitary sewer information to the Waste Water
Division as described in §
161.037(F)(5) of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 41-6-5) (Ord. 7128, passed 4-28-2008)
§ 161.090 FINAL PLAT.
   The developer shall provide a CD which contains an electronic copy of the
final plat. The developer shall also submit one 24-inch by 36-inch laminated
paper copy of the recorded final plat.
(1960 Code, § 41-6-6) (Ord. 7128, passed 4-28-2008)
CHAPTER 162: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
162.001   Purpose
   
162.002   Jurisdiction
   
162.003   Interpretation, conflict with other ordinances
   
162.004   Disclaimer of liability
   
162.005   Construction of terms
   
162.006   Definitions
General Zoning Regulations
   
162.020   Establishment of districts
   
162.021   Zoning map and district boundaries
   
162.022   Annual publication
   
162.023   Determining territory of districts with precision
   
162.024   Annexed territory
   
162.025   General prohibition
   
162.026   Unlisted uses prohibited
   
162.027   Emergency and temporary occupancy of structures
   
162.028   Meeting minimum requirements
   
162.029   Access required
   
162.030   Front setbacks - corner/through lots
   
162.031   Front setbacks in certain built-up areas
   
162.032   Intrusions into yards
   
162.033   Exceptions to height limits
   
162.034   Accessory uses
   
162.035   Permitted accessory uses
   
162.036   Accessory use restrictions
   
162.037   Degree of restrictiveness
Planned Unit Development
   
162.050   Planned unit developments
   
162.051   Compliance with ordinances generally required
   
162.052   Districts where allowed
   
162.053   Permissible deviations from code requirements
   
162.054   PUD procedures
   
162.055   Changes in approved plans
   
162.056   Failure to begin development
   
162.057   Municipal exemption
Industrial Parks
   
162.070   Term
   
162.071   Purpose
   
162.072   Compliance with codes generally required
   
162.073   Districts where allowed
   
162.074   Additional requirements
   
162.075   Industrial park procedures
   
162.076   Changes in approved plans
   
162.077   Failure to begin development
“A-1" Single-Family Residence District
   
162.090   Purpose
   
162.091   One principal building on one lot
   
162.092   Lot and building requirements
   
162.093   Permitted uses
   
162.094   Special uses
“A-1A” Single-Family Residence District
   
162.105   Purpose
   
162.106   One principal building on one lot
   
162.107   Lot and building requirements
   
162.108   Permitted uses
   
162.109   Special uses
“A-1(H)” Single-Family Residence District
   
162.120   Purpose
   
162.121   One principal building on one lot
   
162.122   Lot and building requirements
   
162.123   Permitted uses
   
162.124   Special uses
“A-1(M)” Single-Family Residence District
   
162.135   Purpose
   
162.136   One principal building on one lot
   
162.137   Lot and building requirements
   
162.138   Permitted uses
   
162.139   Special uses
“A-1(L)” Single-Family Residence District
   
162.150   Purpose
   
162.151   One principal building on one lot
   
162.152   Lot and building requirements
   
162.153   Permitted uses
   
162.154   Special uses
“A-2” Two-Family Residence District
   
162.165   Purpose
   
162.166   One principal building on one lot
   
162.167   Lot and building requirements
   
162.168   Permitted uses
   
162.169   Special uses
“B-1” Multi-Family Residence District
   
162.180   Purpose
   
162.181   Lot and building requirements
   
162.182   Permitted uses
   
162.183   Special uses
“MH-1” Mobile Home Residence District
   
162.195   Purpose
   
162.196   Lot and building requirements
   
162.197   Permitted uses
   
162.198   Special uses
“MH-2” Mobile Home Park District
   
162.210   Purpose
   
162.211   Lot and building requirements
   
162.212   Permitted uses
   
162.213   Immobilization prohibited
   
162.214   Special uses
   
162.215   Supplementary restrictions
   
162.216   Mobile home sites and spacing
“C-1” Light Commercial District
   
162.230   Purpose
   
162.231   Lot and building requirements
   
162.232   Permitted uses
   
162.233   Special uses
“C-2” Heavy Commercial District
   
162.245   Purpose
   
162.246   Lot and building requirements
   
162.247   Permitted uses
   
162.248   Special uses
“C-3” Commercial District
   
162.260   Purpose
   
162.261   Lot and building requirements
   
162.262   Permitted uses
   
162.263   Special uses
“C-4” Commercial District
   
162.275   Purpose
   
162.276   Lot and building requirements
   
162.277   Permitted uses
   
162.278   Special uses
“C-5” Planned Commercial District
   
162.290   Purpose
   
162.291   Lot and building requirements
   
162.292   Permitted uses
   
162.293   Review procedures
Light Industry District
   
162.305   Purpose
   
162.306   Lot and building requirements
   
162.307   Permitted uses
   
162.308   Special uses
Heavy Industry District
   
162.320   Purpose
   
162.321   Lot and building requirements
   
162.322   Permitted uses
   
162.323   Special uses
Floodplain District
   
162.335   “FP” Floodplain Overlay District
   
162.336   Permitted uses, special uses
   
162.337   Additional restrictions
Historic District
   
162.350   “HP” Historic Preservation Overlay District
   
162.351   Permitted uses, special uses
   
162.352   Additional restrictions
   
162.353   Purpose
   
162.354   Relationship to zoning districts
   
162.355   Boundaries
   
162.356   Designation
   
162.357   Acts prohibited
   
162.358   Design review request required
   
162.359   Application for design review request
   
162.360   Action on application
   
162.361   Matters to be considered
“AGR” Agricultural/Rural District
   
162.375   Purpose
   
162.376   Lot and building requirements
   
162.377   Permitted uses
   
162.378   Special uses
Supplementary Regulations for Specific Uses
   
162.390   Applicability of subchapter
   
162.391   Drive-in theaters
   
162.392   Fences, walls
   
162.393   Greenhouses, nurseries
   
162.394   Home occupations
   
162.395   Hospitals, nursing homes
   
162.396   Junk yards
   
162.397   Kennels
   
162.398   Swimming pools
   
162.399   Storm water management requirements
   
162.400   Outdoor restaurants and dining establishments
   
162.401   Event centers
   
162.402   Short-term rentals
Telecommunications Facilities
   
162.415   Purpose
   
162.416   Technical consultation
   
162.417   Definitions
   
162.418   Uses allowed
   
162.419   Registration and permits
   
162.420   Co-location and abandonment
   
162.421   Site selection and protocols
   
162.422   Design criteria
   
162.423   Fire prevention
   
162.424   Exemptions
Solar Energy Systems
   
162.430   Purpose and intent
   
162.431   Definitions
   
162.432   Personal solar energy systems (PSESs)
   
162.433   Solar farm energy systems (SFESs)
Off-Street Parking and Loading
   
162.435   Applicability
   
162.436   Existing parking/loading facilities
   
162.437   Parking area design standards
   
162.438   Spaces
   
162.439   Interior aisles
   
162.440   Access ways
   
162.441   Surfacing
   
162.442   Lighting
   
162.443   Landscaping
   
162.444   Parking lots and driveways abutting residence district
   
162.445   Exception: county public parking garage
   
162.446   Location of parking
   
162.447   Residential districts
   
162.448   Commercial and industrial districts
   
162.449   Design and location of off-street loading facilities
   
162.450   Size of space
   
162.451   Access way
   
162.452   Surfacing
   
162.453   Buffer strips
   
162.454   Location
   
162.455   Computation of required parking/loading spaces
   
162.456   Number of parking and loading spaces required
Non-Conformities
   
162.470   Purpose
   
162.471   Non-conforming lots
   
162.472   Two or more lots in common ownership
   
162.473   Non-conforming structures
   
162.474   Non-conforming uses occupying a structure
   
162.475   Non-conforming uses of land
   
162.476   Non-conformities under permit authority
Administration and Enforcement
   
162.490   Zoning Administrator
   
162.491   Duties
   
162.492   Initial certificates of zoning compliance
   
162.493   Application
   
162.494   Duration of certificate
   
162.495   Relationship to building permits
   
162.496   Final certificates of zoning compliance
   
162.497   Corrective action orders
   
162.498   Contents of order
   
162.499   Service of order
   
162.500   Stop orders
   
162.501   Emergency measures
   
162.502   Complaints
   
162.503   Schedule of fees
   
162.504   Site plan requirements
Special Use Permits
   
162.515   Special use permits
   
162.516   Application
   
162.517   Public hearing, notice
   
162.518   Advisory report, factors considered
   
162.519   Action by Council
   
162.520   Applications
Board of Appeals
   
162.535   Board of Appeals established
   
162.536   Membership, appointment, compensation
   
162.537   Term of office, vacancies
   
162.538   Meetings, quorum
   
162.539   Records
Appeals
   
162.550   Appeals
   
162.551   Filing, record transmittal
   
162.552   Stay of further proceedings
   
162.553   Public hearing, notice
   
162.554   Advisory report, findings of fact
   
162.555   Action by Council
Variances
   
162.570   Variances
   
162.571   Application
   
162.572   Public hearing, notice
   
162.573   Advisory report, findings of fact
   
162.574   Action by Council
   
162.575   Applications
Amendments
   
162.590   Amendment procedure
   
162.591   Filing
   
162.592   Public hearing, notice
   
162.593   Advisory report, findings of fact
   
162.594   Action by Council
   
162.595   Applications
 
   
162.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 162.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   In accordance with state law (65 ILCS 5/11-13-1 et seq.), this chapter
regulates structures and land uses in order to preserve, protect and promote
the public health, safety and welfare through implementation of the city’s
Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   More specifically, this chapter is intended to assist in achieving the
following objectives:
      (1)   To encourage the development of buildings and uses on appropriate
sites in order to maximize community-wide social and economic benefits while
accommodating the particular needs of all residents, and to discourage
development on inappropriate sites;
      (2)   To protect and enhance the character and stability of sound
existing residential, commercial and industrial areas, and to gradually
eliminate non-conforming uses and structures;
      (3)   To conserve and increase the value of taxable property throughout
the city;
      (4)   To ensure the provision of adequate light, air and privacy for the
occupants of all buildings;
      (5)   To protect property from damage caused by fire, flooding, poorly-
controlled storm water run-off and adverse soil and topographical conditions;
      (6)   To provide adequate and well-designed parking and loading space for
all buildings and uses, and to reduce vehicular congestion on the public
streets and highways;
      (7)   To guide the provision of water mains, sanitary sewers, storm water
sewers and other utilities and services, and to reduce the initial costs and
future maintenance expenses thereof;
      (8)   To provide for the efficient administration and fair enforcement of
all the regulations set forth herein; and
      (9)   To clearly and concisely explain the procedures for obtaining
variances, special use permits, amendments and the like.
(1960 Code, § 60-1-1)
§ 162.002 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall be applicable within the corporate limits of the city.
(1960 Code, § 60-1-2)
§ 162.003 INTERPRETATION, CONFLICT WITH OTHER ORDINANCES.
   Every provision of this chapter shall be construed liberally in favor of the
city, and every requirement imposed herein shall be deemed minimal. Whenever
the requirements of this chapter differ from the requirements of any other
lawfully adopted ordinance, regulation, deed restriction or covenant, the more
stringent requirement shall prevail.
(1960 Code, § 60-1-3)
§ 162.004 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   Except as may be provided otherwise by statute or ordinance, no
officer, board member, agent or employee of the city shall render himself or
herself personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property
as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his or her
duties under this chapter.
   (B)   Any suit brought against any officer, board member, agent or employee
of the city, as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of
his or her duties under this chapter, shall be defended by the Municipal
Attorney until the final determination of the legal proceedings.
(1960 Code, § 60-1-4)
Statutory reference:
   Local Governmental and Governmental Employees Tort Immunity Act, see 745
ILCS 10/1-101
§ 162.005 CONSTRUCTION OF TERMS.
   In construing the intended meaning of terminology used in this chapter, the
following rules shall be observed.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to
them in §
162.006 of this chapter unless the context clearly indicates otherwise; terms
not defined in §
162.006 of this chapter shall have their standard English dictionary meanings.
   (B)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders.
   (C)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
   (D)   Words used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and
the plural the singular.
   (E)   The term “shall” is mandatory; the term “may” is discretionary.
   (F)   The term “the city” shall mean the City of Belleville, Illinois.
   (G)   The words “lot”, “parcel”, “tract” and “site” shall be synonymous.
(See definition of “plot”.)
   (H)   The words “extend”, “enlarge” and “expand” shall be synonymous. (See
definition of “enlarge”.)
   (I)   The words “abutting”, “adjacent” and “contiguous” shall be synonymous.
(See definition of “abutting”.)
   (J)    All distances shall be measured to the nearest integral foot.
   (K)   References to sections shall be deemed to include all divisions within
that section; but a reference to a particular division designates only that
division.
   (L)   A general term that follows or is followed by enumerations of specific
terms shall not be limited to the enumerated class unless expressly limited.
(1960 Code, § 60-2-1)
§ 162.006 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABUTS. Having a common lot line or district line (excluding streets, alleys
or public rights-of-way).
   ACCESS WAY. A curb cut, ramp, driveway or other means for providing
vehicular access to an off-street parking or loading area.
   ACCESSORY USE. Any structure or use that is:
      (1)   Subordinate in size or purpose to the principal structure or use
which it serves;
      (2)   Necessary or contributing to the comfort and convenience of the
occupants or the principal structure or use served; and
      (3)   Located on the same lot as the principal structure or use served.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The official appointed by the Mayor of the city with the
advice and consent of Council to administer this chapter or his or her
representative. (Synonymous with ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.)
   AGRICULTURE. Any one or any combination of the following: the growing of
farm or truck garden crops, dairying, pasturage, horticulture, floriculture,
viticulture or animal/poultry husbandry. The term AGRICULTURE encompasses the
farmhouse and accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to
agricultural activities.
   AISLE. A vehicular traffic way within an off-street parking area, used as a
means of access/egress from parking spaces.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords a secondary means of vehicular
access to abutting premises that front on a nearby street.
   ALTER. To change the size, shape or use of a structure.
   AMENDMENT. A change in the provisions of this chapter (including those
portions incorporated by reference), properly effected in accordance with state
law and the procedures set forth herein.
   ATTACHED. As applied to buildings, having a common wall and/or a common
roof.
   BAR/TAVERN. A premises used primarily for the sale or dispensing of
alcoholic beverages by the drink for on-site consumption and where food may be
available for consumption on the premises as accessory to the principal use.
   BASEMENT. A story having one-half or more of its height below average level
of the adjoining ground.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. An owner operator-occupied residence
providing accommodations for a charge to the public with no more than four
guest rooms for rent. The only "full service" meal the establishment shall
service is breakfast. Breakfast and light refreshments/snacks may be provided
to the guests only. BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS shall not include motels,
hotels, boarding houses or food service establishments.
   BLOCK. An area of land entirely bounded by streets, highways, barriers or
ways (except alleys, pedestrian ways or exterior boundaries of a subdivision
unless exterior boundary is a street, highway or way) or bounded by a
combination of streets, public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way,
waterways or corporate boundary lines.
   BOARD OF APPEALS. The Board of Zoning Appeals of the city.
   BUFFER STRIP. An area of land, undeveloped except for landscaping, fences
and the like, used to protect a use situated on one lot from the deleterious
effects of the use on the adjacent lot.
   BUILDING. Any covered structure permanently affixed to land and designed or
used to shelter persons or chattels.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the average grade at
the front wall of a building to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof
or to the deck line of mansard roof, or to the mean height level between eaves
and ridge for gable, hip or gambrel roofs. Chimneys, towers, cooling towers and
similar projections shall not be included in calculating BUILDING HEIGHT.
   BUILDING LINE. The line nearest the front of and across a lot, delineating
the minimum open space required between the front of a structure and the street
right-of-way.
   BULK. Any one or any combination of the following structural or site design
characteristics:
      (1)   Size or height of structure;
      (2)   Location of exterior walls at all levels in relation to lot lines,
streets or other structures;
      (3)   Lot area; and/or
      (4)   Yards or setbacks.
   CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE, INITIAL. A permit issued by the
Administrator indicating that proposed construction work is in conformity with
the requirements of this chapter and may, therefore, proceed.
   CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE, FINAL. A permit issued by the
Administrator indicating that a newly completed structure complies with all
pertinent requirements of this chapter and may, therefore, be occupied or used.
   CHILD DAY CARE CENTER, NURSERY SCHOOL, OR DAY CARE NURSERY. See DAY CARE
CENTER.
   CLINIC. An establishment wherein licensed physicians or dentists practice
medicine or dentistry, but where overnight lodging for sick or injured persons
is not provided.
   CLUB/LODGE. A building, or portion thereof, used by a group of people
organized for common purposes to pursue common goals, interests or activities
and typically characterized by certain membership qualifications, payment of
fees and dues, regular meetings and a constitution and bylaws.
   COMMERCIAL USE/ESTABLISHMENT. Any use or establishment wherein goods are
purchased or sold, whether to the consuming public (retail) or to other
businesses (wholesale).
   COMMUNITY RESIDENCE. A group home or specialized residential care home
serving unrelated persons with handicaps which is licensed, certified or
accredited by appropriate local, state or national bodies. COMMUNITY RESIDENCE
does not include a residence which serves persons as an alternative to
incarceration for a criminal offense, or persons whose primary reason for
placement is substance or alcohol abuse or for treatment of communicable
disease. (See definition of LARGE COMMUNITY RESIDENCE and SMALL COMMUNITY
RESIDENCE.)
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The plan or any portion thereof adopted by the city to
guide and coordinate the physical and economic development of the community.
The COMPREHENSIVE PLAN includes, but is not limited to, plans and programs
regarding the location, character and extent of highways; bridges; public
buildings or uses; utilities; schools; residential, commercial or industrial
land uses; parks; drainage facilities; and the like.
   CONFORMING. In compliance with the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   CONVENIENCE STORE, CONVENIENCE SHOP, or CORNER SHOP. A small retail business
that stocks a range of everyday items such as coffee, groceries, snack foods,
confectionary, soft drinks, tobacco products, over-the-counter drugs,
toiletries, newspapers, magazines, and other sundries primarily for home
consumption. Some stores may include food or beverage preparation and are
licensed to sell alcohol and/or the retail sale of motor vehicle fuels.
   CORRECTIVE ACTION ORDER. A legally binding order issued by the Administrator
in accordance with the procedures set forth herein to effect compliance with
this chapter.
   DAY CARE CENTER. An establishment for the part-time care and/or instruction
at any time of the day of four or more unrelated pre-elementary school and
school aged children.
   DETACHED. As applied to buildings, surrounded by yards on the same lot as
the building.
   DEVELOP. To erect any structure or to install any improvements on a tract of
land, or to undertake any activity (such as grading) in preparation therefor.
   DIMENSIONS. Refers to both lot depth and lot width.
   DISTRICT, ZONING. A portion of the territory of the city wherein certain
uniform requirements or various combinations thereof apply to structures, lots
and uses under the terms of this chapter.
   DORMITORY. A building owned by an accredited school, college or university
and devoted exclusively to living facilities in which each person residing in
each living unit is a duly-registered student in the accredited school, college
or university which the building owns. The living facilities for such building
shall be designed with sleeping rooms for use by 16 or more students; provided
that, there is at least 150 square feet of floor space for the first student-
occupant thereof and at least 100 additional square feet of floor space for
every additional student-occupant.
   DRIVEWAY. A minor way commonly providing vehicular access to a garage or
off-street parking area.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof designed or used primarily as living
quarters for one or more families, but not including hotels, motels or other
accommodations for the transient public.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof containing three or
more dwelling units built to comply with the adopted building codes of the
city.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached dwelling containing one dwelling unit
and intended for the occupancy of one family built to comply with the adopted
building codes of the city. Does not include a mobile home. (See definition of
MOBILE HOME.)
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A dwelling containing two dwelling units built to
comply with the adopted building codes of the city.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms designed or used as living quarters by one
family. A DWELLING UNIT always includes a bathroom and a kitchen.
   EASEMENT. A right to use another person’s real property for certain limited
purposes.
   ENCLOSED. As applied to a building, covered by a permanent roof and
separated on all sides from adjacent open space or other buildings by fixed
exterior walls or by common walls, with openings only for windows and doors.
   ENLARGE. To increase the size (floor area, height and the like) of an
existing principal structure or accessory use, or to devote more land to an
existing use.
   ERECT. To build, construct.
   ESTABLISHMENTS. Either of the following:
      (1)   An institutional, business, commercial or industrial activity that
is the sole occupant of one or more buildings; or
      (2)   An institutional, business, commercial or industrial activity that
occupies a portion of a building, such that:
         (a)   The activity is a logical and separate entity from the other
activities within the building and not a department of the whole; and
         (b)   The activity has either a separate entrance from the exterior of
the building, or a separate entrance from a common and clearly defined entryway
that has direct access to the exterior of the building.
   EVENT CENTER. A location for the hosting of weddings, conferences, galas,
and other similar events. Such uses may include non-accessory conference rooms,
banquet halls, or other primary structures utilized for ceremonial, business,
or organizational related events.
   EXISTING. Actually constructed or in operation on the effective date of this
chapter.
   FAMILY. Either:
      (1)   Two or more persons, each related to the other by blood, marriage
or adoption, together with usual domestic servants and not more than one bona
fide guest, all living together as a single housekeeping unit and using common
kitchen facilities (that is, a related family); or
      (2)   Three or fewer persons, all of whom are not necessarily related to
each of the others by blood, marriage or adoption, all living together as a
single housekeeping unit and using common kitchen facilities (that is, an
unrelated family). For purposes of this chapter, however, an UNRELATED FAMILY
shall not include persons living together in a community residence or nursing
home.
   FENCE. A hedge, structure or partition, erected for the purpose of enclosing
a piece of land, or to divide a piece of land into distinct portions, or to
separate two contiguous estates. An enclosure about a field or other space, or
about any object; especially an enclosing structure of wood, iron or other
materials, intended to prevent intrusion from without or straying from within.
   FLOOD ELEVATION, REGULATORY. The elevation of the most severe flood that, on
the basis of Corps of Engineer’s data, may be expected to occur once every 100
years.
   FLOODPLAIN AREA. The area adjacent to a watercourse and its tributaries
having an elevation equal to or lower than the regulatory flood elevation.
   FLOOD AREA, GROSS. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several
floors of a building, measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or
from the center of the common walls of attached buildings. GROSS FLOOR AREA
includes basement floors; attic floor space; halls, closets, stairwells; space
devoted to mechanical equipment; and enclosed porches.
   FRONTAGE. The lineal extent of the front (street-side) of a lot.
   GREENHOUSE. See NURSERY.
   HALFWAY HOUSE. A temporary residential living arrangement for persons who
are receiving therapy and counseling from support staff who are present at all
times residents are present for the following purposes:
      (1)   To help them recuperate from the effects of drugs or alcohol
addiction;
      (2)   To help them re-enter society while housed under supervision while
under the constraints of alternatives to imprisonment, including, but not
limited to, prerelease, workrelease and probationary programs;
      (3)   To help persons with family or school adjustment problems that
require specialized attention and care in order to achieve personal
independence; or
      (4)   To provide temporary shelter for persons who are victims of
domestic abuse.
   HANDICAP. A physical, mental or intellectual impairment or a combination
thereof which substantially limits one or more of such person’s major life
activities, which is likely to continue for a significant amount of time or
indefinitely and results in functional limitations in three or more of the
following areas of major life activities: self-care, receptive or expressive
language, learning, mobility, self-direction, capacity for independent living,
or economic self-sufficiency, but such term does not include past or current
use of or addiction to a controlled substance, alcohol or a person with
communicable diseases. Further, HANDICAP does not include a person who has
committed a criminal offense.
   HEREAFTER. Any time after the effective date of this chapter.
   HOME FOR THE AGED. A facility, however named, which is designed, staffed and
equipped for the care of elderly individuals who are not in need of hospital or
nursing care, but who are in need of assistance with everyday activities of
living in a protected environment.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any business, profession or occupation conducted for gain
entirely within a dwelling or on residential premises in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter.
   HOSPITAL. An institution devoted, on an around-the-clock basis, to the
maintenance and operation of facilities for the diagnosis, treatment or care of
members of the general public suffering from disease, injury or other abnormal
physical conditions.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. A building providing transient lodging accommodations to the
general public for compensation and which may include ancillary facilities and
services such as restaurants, meeting rooms, entertainment, personal services
and recreational facilities.
   INDUSTRIAL PARK. A tract of land which is planned as a whole for use by
businesses, who will own or control individual lots within the development
tract; and who, by virtue of such unified planning and development, may receive
greater amenities and/or lower individual development costs than would normally
be available through the development of individual separate lots. An INDUSTRIAL
PARK may contain one type of use or a variety of uses within its zoning class.
   INTENSIFY. To increase the level or degree of.
   INTERSECTION. The point at which two or more public rights-of-way
(generally, streets) meet.
   JUNK YARD. A tract of land, including any accessory structures thereon, that
is used for buying, selling, exchanging, storing, baling, packing,
disassembling or handling waste or scrap materials. Such scrap materials
include vehicles, machinery and equipment not in operable condition (or parts
thereof), and metals, glass, paper, plastics, rags and rubber tires. A lot on
which three or more inoperable vehicles are stored shall be deemed a JUNK YARD.
A JUNK YARD includes an automobile wrecking yard.
   KENNEL. Any premises wherein any person engages in the business of boarding,
breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee or selling animals,
which consist of more than three dogs, cats or other domestic animals over four
months of age are kept.
   LARGE COMMUNITY RESIDENCE. A community residence serving six to 15 persons
with handicaps. All LARGE COMMUNITY RESIDENCES shall comply with Use Group I-
1 of the BOCA Code.
   LOADING SPACE. An off-street space used for the temporary parking of a
commercial vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials.
   LOT. A tract of land intended as a unit for the purpose (whether immediate
or future) of transfer of ownership or development. A LOT may or may not
coincide with a “lot of record”.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot having at least two adjacent sides that abut for their
full length upon streets. Both such side lines shall be deemed front lot lines.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot having a pair of approximately parallel lot lines that
abut two approximately parallel streets. Both such lot lines shall be deemed
front lot lines.
   LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side and rear
lines of a lot.
   LOT COVERAGE. The portion of a lot that is occupied by buildings or
structures, including accessory buildings or structures.
   LOT DEPTH. The average horizontal distance between the front lot line and
the rear lot line of a lot.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The lot boundary abutting the street.
   LOT LINE, REAR. An interior lot line which is most distant from and most
nearly parallel to the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or a
rear lot line.
   LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS. Refers to the lot area, width and depth requirements
of the applicable district.
   LOT WIDTH. The mean horizontal width of a lot measured at right angles to
the side lot lines.
   MAINTENANCE. The routine upkeep of a structure, premises or equipment,
including the replacement or modification of structural components to the
extent necessary to keep said structure in sound condition.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
in traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width and 40 body feet or more
in length, or when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is
built on a permanent chassis in accordance with the National Manufactured Home
Construction and Safety Standards (HUD Code), and designed to be used as a
dwelling unit by one family with or without a permanent foundation when
connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-
conditioning and electrical systems contained therein.
   MATERIALLY. As applied to the impact of one thing on another, significantly
or substantially.
   METAL BUILDING. Any building in which any exterior wall surface is clad in
metal or steel (excluding roofs).
   MIXED USE RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENTS/USES. A property that incorporates both
residential units and commercial/office units. For the purposes of this defined
use, mixed use residential developments/uses shall mean the commercial/office
units are on the above grade ground floor and the residential units are located
on floors two or above.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure designed for habitation and so constructed as to
permit its transport on wheels, temporarily or permanently attached to its
frames, from the place of its construction to the location, or subsequent
locations, at which it is intended to be a permanent habitation and designed to
permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one or more persons; the
term MOBILE HOME shall also include manufactured houses constructed after 6-30-
1976, in accordance with the Federal National Manufactured Housing Construction
and Safety Standards Act of 1974. It is further provided that for the purpose
of this chapter, the definition of MOBILE HOME shall include any portable
structure used as an office; except that, it shall not include a temporary
portable structure at a construction site; provided further that, if a
temporary construction site structure remains at a construction site for over
one year, permission to remain thereafter must be obtained from the Building
and Zoning Commissioner. As defined in this chapter, a MOBILE HOME differs from
a modular home in that it does not meet the adopted building code for the city.
(See definition of MODULAR, PRECUT OR PREFAB HOME.)
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A tract of land or two or more contiguous tracts of land
upon which contains sites with the necessary utilities for five or more
independent mobile homes for permanent habitation either free of charge or for
revenue purposes, and shall include any building, structure, vehicle or
enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the equipment of such mobile
home park. Separate ownership of contiguous tracts of land shall not preclude
the tract of land from common licensure as a MOBILE HOME PARK if they are
maintained and operated jointly. As specified in this chapter, any newly
developed MOBILE HOME PARK shall contain a parcel of land not less than ten
acres in area in single ownership control.
   MODULAR HOME. A substantially constructed factory-fabricated home built in
one or more sections transported to a building site, mounted on a permanent
foundation and designed for residential use as a single-family dwelling unit.
At a minimum, a MODULAR HOME must meet the requirements of the state’s
Department of Public Health being distinguished by a yellow seal in the shape
of the state placed on the electrical panel box of the unit. For units
manufactured in Indiana under a reciprocal agreement, the Indiana seal
satisfies this requirement. (See PREFABRICATED/SECTIONAL HOME.)
   MULTIPLE OCCUPANCY NON-RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENTS/USES. A non-residential
development, on a single lot of record and located in multiple on-site
addresses/suites, that house more than one business, office, commercial or
industrial operation.
   NON-ACCESSORY STORAGE BUILDING. A standalone building that is not an
accessory use associated with a primary use and is used for personal or
business-related storage.
   NON-CONFORMING. As applied to a lot, structure or use:
      (1)   Lawfully existing on the effective date of this chapter; but
      (2)   Not in compliance with the applicable provisions thereof.
   NUISANCE. Any thing, condition or conduct that endangers health, or
unreasonably offends the senses, or obstructs the free use and comfortable
enjoyment of property, or essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment
of life.
   NURSERY. A tract of land on which trees, shrubs and other plants are raised
for transplanting and sale, and including any structure in which said
activities are conducted.
   NURSING HOME. A licensed public or private home or substitute which provides
maintenance, personal care and nursing for three or more persons who by reason
of physical illness or infirmity are incapable of maintaining a private,
independent residence.
   OFFICE. Any building or portion thereof in which the business (usually
clerical and administrative affairs) of a commercial/service enterprise or
professional person is transacted.
   OUTDOOR RESTAURANT/DINING ESTABLISHMENT. Any portion of a food establishment
or eating place located on a public sidewalk or public open-space that provides
waiter or waitress service and is unenclosed and open to the general public;
the facility being properly licensed as a food establishment in the county and
meet the requirements as set forth in §
162.400 of this chapter.
   OVERLAY DISTRICT. A zoning district superimposed over one or more standard
(primary) zoning districts or portions thereof for the purpose of controlling
developmental problems caused by such factors as flooding and the like.
   PARKING AREA/LOT, OFF-STREET. Land that is improved in accordance with this
chapter and used primarily for the storage of passenger motor vehicles, free of
charge or for compensation. An OFF-STREET PARKING AREA, depending on the
circumstances of its use, may be either a principal use or an accessory use.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. An area at least 19 feet long and nine feet wide
within an off-street parking area or garage, used for the storage of one
passenger motor vehicle.
   PERMITTED USE. Any use which is or may be lawfully established in a
particular district(s); provided, it conforms with all the requirements
applicable to said district(s).
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, organization or corporate body.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A tract of land which is planned as a whole for
development under single ownership or control in accordance with this chapter,
and which, by virtue of such unified planning and development, provides greater
amenities, convenience or other benefits (especially open space) than would
normally be had through the development of diverse smaller tracts under
multiple ownership. A PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT may contain one type of use or a
variety of uses.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the city.
   PLOT. A parcel of land consisting of one or more lots or portions thereof
which is described by reference to a recorded plat or by metes and bounds.
   PREFABRICATED/SECTIONAL HOME. A partially constructed factory fabricated
premanufactured home which will be substantially assembled on-site, utilizing
premanufactured component parts and when fully assembled meets or exceeds the
building codes of the city.
   PREMISES. A lot and all the structures and uses thereon.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING/STRUCTURE/USE. The main structure erected on or the main
use occupying a lot, as distinguished from an accessory (subordinate) structure
or use.
   PROPERTY LINE. See LOT LINE.
   RECONSTRUCT. As applied to non-conforming structures, to rebuild after
partial or total destruction.
   REFUSE. Garbage (food wastes) and trash, but not sewage or industrial
wastes.
   RELOCATE. To move to another portion of a lot or to a different lot.
   REPAIR. To restore to sound condition, but not to reconstruct.
   RESTAURANT/DINING ESTABLISHMENT. A public place kept, used, maintained,
advertised and held out to the public, where meals are served and where meals
actually are served and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations; such
space being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room
equipment and capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind
of employees to prepare, cook and serve suitable foods for its guests; it is
further provided that a restaurant as herein defined shall mean an
establishment which derives more than 50% of its gross sales from the sale of
food. Restaurants/dining establishments shall fall under the classification of
“eating places of all types” when determining allowed zoning district locations
in the city.
   RESTRICTIVE. Tending to keep within prescribed limits.
   RETAIL. Refers to the sale of goods or services directly to the consumer
rather than to another business.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY, PUBLIC. A strip of land which the owner/subdivider has
dedicated to the city or to another unit of government for streets and alleys.
   ROOMING HOUSE. A building in which sleeping quarters (but not meals or
cooking facilities) are provided by pre-arrangement for compensation on a
weekly or longer basis for three or more persons who are not members of the
keeper’s family. For the purpose of this chapter, the term ROOMING HOUSE shall
also mean boarding house and a ROOMING HOUSE shall not include a community
residence or nursing home.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. A tract of open land used for the permanent disposal of
refuse in accordance with the requirements of the state’s Environmental
Protection Agency. At a SANITARY LANDFILL, the refuse is periodically covered
with topsoil.
   SCREENING. Trees, shrubs, walls, solid fences and the like used as a means
of visual and noise control.
   SERVICE USE/ESTABLISHMENT. Any use or establishment wherein services are
provided for remuneration either to individuals or to other firms.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a lot line and the nearest
portion of a building.
   SETBACK LINE. See BUILDING LINE.
   SHORT TERM RENTALS. A non-owner occupied lodging use, other than a hotel,
motel or bed and breakfast establishment, in which a dwelling unit is provided
to guests by a short-term rental operator for a fee for fewer than 30
consecutive nights. A dwelling unit that is used by the same individual or
individuals for 30 or more consecutive nights is not a short-term rental.
   SMALL COMMUNITY RESIDENCE. A community residence serving five or fewer
persons with handicaps in a family-like atmosphere. All SMALL COMMUNITY
RESIDENCES shall comply with Use Group R-2 of the BOCA Code.
   SPECIAL USE. A use that has unusual operational, physical or other
characteristics which distinguish it from the permitted uses of a district, but
which can be made compatible with the intended overall development within a
district. SPECIAL USES commonly must meet special standards not necessarily
applicable to permitted uses in the district, and are allowed only by permit.
   SPECIAL USE PERMIT. A permit issued in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter to regulate development of a special use.
   STABLE. A structure situated on the same lot as a dwelling, and designed or
used for housing horses for the private use of occupants of the dwelling, but
not for hire.
   STOP ORDER. A type of corrective action order used by the Administrator to
halt work in progress that is in violation of this chapter.
   STREET. A public or private way for motor vehicle travel. The term STREET
includes a highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, pike, avenue,
boulevard, lane, place, drive, court and similar designations, but excludes an
alley or a way for pedestrian use only.
   STRINGENT. Binding, exacting.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, assembled or erected on the ground, or
attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. All buildings are
STRUCTURES, but not all STRUCTURES are buildings.
   STRUCTURE, TEMPORARY. Any structure that is not attached to a permanent
foundation.
   STUDENT. An individual who is enrolled or has been accepted to an
undergraduate or graduate degree program at an accredited university, college,
community college or technical college, and is enrolled in the upcoming or
current session, or was enrolled in the previous term, or is on a scheduled
term break or summer break from the institution.
   STUDENT DWELLING UNIT. A one-, two- or multi-family dwelling in which more
than three, but less than 16, unrelated students live. The maximum number of
students living in a STUDENT DWELLING UNIT shall be determined by the city’s
Housing Department and shall be based on the city’s current adopted codes.
   TEMPORARY USE PERMIT. A permit issued in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter and valid for not more than one year, which allows the occupation
of a temporary structure or the operation of a temporary enterprise.
   TOPOGRAPHY. The relief features or surface configuration of an area.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which land or a structure thereon is
designed, arranged, intended, occupied or maintained.
   USE-VARIANCE. A type of amendment (not variance) that allows a use in a
district where said use would not be allowed under existing provisions of this
chapter.
   USED CAR LOT. A lot where second-hand automobiles are purchased, displayed,
exchanged and sold.
   VARIANCE. A relaxation of the strict application of the lot size, setbacks
or other bulk requirements applicable to a particular lot or structure.
   VARIANCE, MAJOR. All non-use variances not classified as a minor variance,
and/or which will produce an increase or decrease in the degree of compliance
by more than 10% of the amount required for full compliance.
   VARIANCE, MINOR. A non-variance that will produce an increase or decrease in
the degree of compliance by no more than 10% of the amount required for full
compliance. For the minimum dwelling unit requirements of the Zoning
Administrator shall utilize the prevailing dwelling unit square footages of the
associated block.
   YARD. Open space that is unobstructed, except as specifically permitted in
this chapter and that is located on the same lot as the principal building.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard which is bounded by the side lot lines, front lot lines
and the building line.
   YARD, REAR. A yard which is bounded by side lot lines, rear lot lines and
the rear yard line.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard which is bounded by the rear yard line, front yard line,
side yard line and side lot line.
   YARD LINE. A line in a lot that is parallel to the lot line along which the
yard in question extends and which is not nearer to such lot line at any point
than the required depth or width of said yard.
   ZONING MAP. The map(s) and any amendments thereto designating zoning
districts and incorporated into this chapter by reference.
(1960 Code, § 60-2-2) (Ord. 4059, passed 4-16-1984; Ord. 4094, passed 9-4-1984;
Ord. 4674, passed 9-18-1989; Ord. 4770, passed 9-4-1990; Ord. 5256, passed 5-2-
1994; Ord. 5231, passed 3-7-1994; Ord. 5428, passed 5-15-1995; Ord. 5451,
passed 10-11-1995; Ord. 5548, passed 4-1-1996; Ord. 5786, passed 8-18-1997;
Ord. 7174, passed 8-18-2008; Ord. 7198, passed 12-1-2008; Ord. 7219, passed 1-
20-2009; Ord. 7634, passed 10-15-2012; Ord. 7817, passed 11-3-2014; Ord. 9097-
2022, passed 11-7-2022; Ord. 9175-2023, passed 7-3-2023; Ord. 9182-2023, passed
8-7-2023; Ord. 9239-2024, passed 1-2-2024; Ord. 9240-2024, passed 1-2-2024;
Ord. 9313-2024, 9-3-2024; Ord. 9322-2024, passed 10-7-2024)
GENERAL ZONING REGULATIONS
§ 162.020 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   In order to implement the regulatory scheme of this chapter so as to achieve
the objectives enumerated at §
162.001 of this chapter, this entire city is hereby divided into the following
zoning districts:
Designation District Minimum Area*
Designation District                      Minimum Area*
A-1         Single-Family Residence       5 acres
A-2         Two-Family Residence          5 acres
A-2A        Single-Family Residence       5 acres
AGR         Agricultural/Rural            10 acres
B-1         Multi-Family Residence        5 acres
C-1         Light Commercial              10 acres
C-2         Heavy Commercial              10 acres
C-3         Commercial                    10 acres
C-4         Commercial                    10 acres
C-5         Planned Commercial            10 acres
D-1         Light Industry                10 acres
D-2         Heavy Industry                10 acres
FP          Floodplain Overlay            None
HP          Historic Preservation Overlay None
MH-1        Mobile Home Residence         10 acres
MH-2        Mobile Home Park              10 acres
NOTES TO TABLE:
* The “minimum area” requirement (which is intended to prevent spot zoning)
refers to the smallest total area of contiguous parcels that can properly be
given the particular district classification. This requirement relates only to
the creation of new zone districts. Expansion of existing zone districts shall
be exempt from this provision provided the expansion area is contiguous to the
existing zone district.
 
(1960 Code, § 60-3-1) (Ord. 5314, passed 9-19-1994)
§ 162.021 ZONING MAP AND DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the listed zoning districts are hereby established as
shown on the official zoning map of the city. This official map, including all
notations and other information thereon, is hereby made a part of this chapter
by reference. The official zoning map shall be kept on file in the
Administrator’s office.
(1960 Code, § 60-3-2)
§ 162.022 ANNUAL PUBLICATION.
   (A)   In accordance with state law (65 ILCS 5/11-13-19), the Administrator
shall publish the zoning map of the city not later than March 31 of each year.
   (B)   However, no map shall be published for any calendar year during which
there have been no changes in zoning districts or regulations.
(1960 Code, § 60-3-3)
§ 162.023 DETERMINING TERRITORY OF DISTRICTS WITH PRECISION.
   In determining with precision what territory is actually included within any
zoning district, the Zoning Administrator shall apply the following rules.
   (A)   Where a district boundary, as indicated on the zoning map,
approximately follows any of the features listed below on the left, the
corresponding feature on the right shall be deemed the district boundary:
      (1)   Centerline of any street, alley or highway of such centerline;
      (2)   Lot line   such lot line;
      (3)   Railroad tracks right-of-way line of such tracks;
      (4)   Stream center of such stream; and
      (5)   Section lines, quarter section lines, quarter-quarter section
lines, survey lines such lines.
   (B)   Whenever any street, alley or other public way is legally vacated, the
zoning districts adjoining each side of such vacated public way shall
automatically extend to the center of such way, and all territory included in
the vacated way shall thereafter be subject to all regulations of the extended
districts.
   (C)   The regulatory flood elevation at any point in question shall
determine where the floodplain overlay district boundary is located on the
land.
(1960 Code, § 60-3-4)
§ 162.024 ANNEXED TERRITORY.
   (A)   Whenever any territory is annexed into the city, the City Council
shall determine its zone district classification. Before determining such
classification the Council shall fix a time for and hold a public hearing upon
the proposed annexation agreement or amendment, and shall give notice not more
than 30, nor less than 15, days before the date fixed for the hearing. This
notice shall be published at least once in one or more newspapers published in
the city. After such hearing, the agreement or amendment may be modified before
execution thereof. The annexation agreement or amendment shall be executed by
the Mayor and attested by the City Clerk only after such hearing and upon the
adoption of a resolution or ordinance directing such execution, which
resolution or ordinance must be passed by a vote of two-thirds of the corporate
authorities then holding office.
   (B)   Territory proposed to be annexed that is used exclusively for single-
family residential use shall automatically be reclassified to “A-1(L)” exempt
from the public hearing requirement. Furthermore, territory proposed to be
annexed that is used predominately for agricultural, horticultural and like
uses shall automatically be reclassified to “AG” exempt from the public hearing
requirement. Neither the provisions of §§
162.535 through
162.539,
162.550 through
162.555,
162.570 through
162.575 and
162.590 through
162.595 of this chapter, nor the public hearing or notice provisions of any
ordinance, shall apply when the City Council classifies the land with the
annexation or consolidation ordinances provided for above.
(1960 Code, § 60-3-5) (Ord. 6673, passed 8-2-2004)
§ 162.025 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   No structure or part thereof shall be erected, used, occupied, enlarged,
altered, relocated or reconstructed, except in conformity with the provisions
of this chapter. Similarly, no lot or part thereof shall be used, occupied or
developed, except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 60-3-6) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.026 UNLISTED USES PROHIBITED.
   Whenever any use is not specifically listed as permitted or special within a
particular zoning district, such use shall be deemed prohibited in that
district. However, if the Council finds that the unlisted use is similar to and
compatible with the listed uses, it may allow such use by amending this chapter
in accordance with §
162.590 of this chapter. The Council’s decision shall become a permanent public
record and any unlisted use that they approve shall thereafter have the same
status as listed uses.
(1960 Code, § 60-3-7) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.027 EMERGENCY AND TEMPORARY OCCUPANCY OF STRUCTURES.
   No temporary structure (including travel-trailers or mobile homes) shall be
used or occupied for any residential, commercial or industrial use except as
specifically permitted or required by this chapter. However, the City Council
may, upon application therefor, permit the use of such temporary structure for
such reasonable time, for such use, and subject to such conditions as the
Council deems to be compatible with the character of the area in which the
structure is located, and in compliance with reasonable consideration of the
general health, safety and welfare.
(1960 Code, § 60-3-8) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.028 MEETING MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as specifically provided otherwise elsewhere in this chapter,
every lot must meet the minimum area, minimum dimensions and minimum setbacks
requirements of the district in which it is located independently; that is,
without counting any portion of an abutting lot.
   (B)   The minimum floor area of a dwelling unit shall be as follows:
      (1)   Single-family dwelling: 1,000 square feet per dwelling unit; and
      (2)   Two-family and multi-family dwelling: 800 square feet per dwelling
unit.
(1960 Code, § 60-3-9; Ord. 9301-2024, passed 7-15-2024) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.029 ACCESS REQUIRED.
   No building shall be erected on any lot unless such lot abuts, or has
permanent easement of access to, a public street or a private street that
conforms to the standards set forth in
Ch. 161 of this code of ordinances.
(1960 Code, § 60-3-10) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.030 FRONT SETBACKS - CORNER/THROUGH LOTS.
   Every lot with multiple frontages (such as corner or through lots) shall
meet the front setback requirements. The side yard shall be equal to one-half
of the front setback on corner and/or through lots.
(1960 Code, § 60-3-11) (Ord. 3758, passed 12-29-1980) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.031 FRONT SETBACKS IN CERTAIN BUILT-UP AREAS.
   Except as specifically provided otherwise, in all residential and commercial
zoning districts, where over 50% of the lots on one side of a street between
intersections (that is, in one block) are developed with buildings that do not
meet the minimum front yard setback area, then a front yard setback that
conforms with the established building line in that block may be permitted.
(1960 Code, § 60-3-12)
§ 162.032 INTRUSIONS INTO YARDS.
   To the extent indicated below, the following feature of principal buildings
may intrude into required yards without thereby violating the minimum setback
requirements:
 
Feature                                               Maximum Intrusion
Cornices, chimneys, planters or similar architectural 2 feet
features
Fire escapes                                          4 feet
 
(1960 Code, § 60-3-14)
§ 162.033 EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   Necessary appurtenances. Chimneys, church spires, parapet walls,
cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers, antennas or other necessary
appurtenances commonly constructed above the roof line shall be permitted to
exceed the maximum height limitations of the district in which they are located
if they comply with all other pertinent ordinances of the city.
   (B)   Intersections. On corner lots, in the triangular portion of land
bounded by the street lines of such corner lots and a line joining the two
points, each of which is on one street line and 30 feet from the point of
intersection, no obstruction, whether natural or human-made, shall intrude into
the air space that is between two feet and ten feet above the level of the
adjacent street.
(1960 Code, § 60-3-15) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.034 ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   ACCESSORY USE means any structure or use which if:
      (1)   Subordinate in size or purpose to the principal structure or use
which it serves;
      (2)   Necessary or contributing to the comfort and convenience of the
occupants (whether individuals or a commercial enterprise) of the principal
structure or use served; and
      (3)   Located on the same lot as the principal structure or use served.
   (B)   A building permit is needed for all detached accessory buildings with
a floor plan area that exceeds 100 square foot. A building permit is also
required to install more than one detached accessory structure for a floor plan
area that does not exceed 100 square foot.
(1960 Code, § 60-3-16) (Ord. 6789, passed 11-7-2005) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.035 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   Any accessory use shall be deemed permitted in a particular zoning district
if such accessory use is:
   (A)   Accessory to the principal structure or use that is allowed in that
zoning district as of right (permitted use) or by virtue of the fact that a
special use permit has been granted; and
   (B)   In compliance with the restrictions set forth in §
162.036 of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 60-3-17)
§ 162.036 ACCESSORY USE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Height. No accessory use shall be higher than:
      (1)   Fifteen feet in any residential district; or
      (2)   Twenty-five feet in any other zoning district.
   (B)   Setbacks. No accessory use in any zoning district shall be located in
any part of any front yard, nor closer than five feet to any side or rear yard.
   (C)   Percentage of lot coverage. In any residential district, all buildings
including accessory buildings shall not cover more than 40% of the lot area.
   (D)   Use as dwelling. Use of any accessory structure as a dwelling is
strictly prohibited throughout the zoning jurisdiction of the city.
   (E)   Garages and carports. Unattached garages, carports or storage sheds
may come within two feet of side or rear property lines. The roof line shall
govern the two-foot set back.
   (F)   Number of storage sheds. Number of storage sheds permitted on a
residential property shall be limited to no more than two such structures of 64
square feet or larger.
(1960 Code, §60-3-18) (Ord. 3973, passed 8-1-1983; Ord. 8253-2018, passed 10-1-
2018) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.037 DEGREE OF RESTRICTIVENESS.
   MORE RESTRICTIVENESS USES as employed in this chapter means the following:
   (A)   Those uses first permitted in the “A-1” District are the most
restrictive; and
   (B)   All other uses are less restrictive in the order of restrictiveness,
beginning with the most restrictive as follows: “A-1A”, “A-2”, “B-1”, “MH-1”,
“MH-2”, “C-1”, “C-2”, “C-3”, “C-4”, “C-5”, “D-1” and “D-2”.
(1960 Code, § 60-3-19)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
§ 162.050 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   As used in this chapter, the term PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD) means
a development wherein, in accordance with an approved development plan:
      (1)   Common open space is reserved;
      (2)   Various housing types and other structures and uses may be mixed;
and/or
      (3)   Overall average density does not exceed the usual zoning district
limit.
   (B)   This chapter authorizes development of PUDs and establishes PUD
procedures in order to achieve the objectives enumerated in §
162.001 of this chapter and the following additional objectives:
      (1)   To provide a regulatory mechanism whereby the city can be assured
that upon completion, approved development projects will substantially conform
to the plans or models which constituted the basis for the city’s issuance of
the necessary zoning, subdivision and/or building permits;
      (2)   To permit development of a wide variety of housing types and other
structures and uses in a single comprehensively planned project;
      (3)   To preserve the natural topography, scenic features, mature trees
and historic structures existing on sites proposed for development;
      (4)   To encourage innovative site layouts and coordinated architectural
treatment of different housing types and other structures;
      (5)   To ensure the provision of usable common open space in planned
developments and to spur installation of various amenities therein; and
      (6)   To facilitate the economical installation of standard streets,
sewers, utilities and other improvements.
(1960 Code, § 60-4-1)
§ 162.051 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDINANCES GENERALLY REQUIRED.
   Important: except as specifically provided otherwise in this section,
planned unit developments, including all structures and uses therein, shall, at
a minimum be built in conformity with all applicable codes and ordinances,
including this chapter and
Ch. 150,
151,
152,
155 and
161 of this code of ordinances.
(1960 Code, § 60-4-2)
§ 162.052 DISTRICTS WHERE ALLOWED.
   Planned unit developments may be built in any zoning district, but only upon
the issuance of a special use permit.
(1960 Code, § 60-4-3)
§ 162.053 PERMISSIBLE DEVIATIONS FROM CODE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General. The planned unit development concept is intended to afford
both the developer and the city considerable flexibility in formulating
development proposals. Consequently, to the extent indicated in this section,
PUDs may deviate from generally applicable ordinance requirements without a
variance. Any proposed deviation not listed below, however, shall require a
variance.
   (B)   Mixed uses. PUDs may include all types of residential structures and
any other uses approved by the Council; provided that, in approving such mixed
uses, the Council may attach any conditions necessary to protect the public
welfare.
   (C)   Lot and structure requirements. In PUDs, the Council may approve any
reasonable deviation from the lot and structure requirements of the particular
zoning district so long as the different uses within the PUD are appropriately
interrelated and property abutting the PUD is adequately protected from any
potential adverse impacts of the development. LOT AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS
means minimum individual lot area, width and depth; minimum setbacks; and
maximum structure height.
   (D)   Accessory uses. In PUDs, the Council may allow the developer to
disregard the usual restrictions on accessory uses other than the prohibition
against using an accessory structure as a dwelling.
   (E)   Location of parking/loading spaces. By permission of the Council, off-
street parking and loading spaces in PUDs need not be located in accordance
with generally applicable requirements. The minimum number of such spaces,
however, shall not be less than the number required as per §§
162.435 through
162.456 of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 60-4-4)
§ 162.054 PUD PROCEDURES.
   (A)   General. Every applicant for PUD approval shall comply with the
procedural requirements of this subsection. The required procedures are as
follows:
      (1)   Filing development plan with the Administrator;
      (2)   Provision by the developer of adequate assurance for the completion
of required improvements as per the development plan;
      (3)   Review of the development plan by the Zoning Board of Appeals;
      (4)   Public hearing by the Board of Appeals as per the requirement of §§
162.515 through
162.520 of this chapter;
      (5)   Recommendation by the Zoning Board of Appeals to the City Council
regarding approval/rejection of the development plan; and
      (6)   Action by City Council on the development plan.
   (B)   Application, information required. Every applicant for approval of a
PUD development plan shall submit to the Administrator, in narrative and/or
graphic form, the items of information listed below.
      (1)   Written documents.
         (a)   Legal description of the total site proposed for development;
         (b)   Names and addresses of all owners of property within or adjacent
to the proposed PUD;
         (c)   Statement of the planning objectives to be achieved by the PUD
through the particular approach proposed by the applicant, including a
description of the character of the proposed development and the rationale
behind the assumptions and choices made by the applicant;
         (d)   Development schedule indicating the approximate date when
construction of the PUD or stages of the PUD can be expected to begin and be
completed;
         (e)   Statement of the applicant’s intentions with regard to the
future selling or leasing of all or portions of the PUD, such as land areas,
dwelling units and the like;
         (f)   Data indicating:
            1.   Total number and type of proposed dwelling units;
            2.   Gross and net acreage of parcel;
            3.   Acreage of gross and usable open space; and
            4.   Area of any commercial uses.
      (2)   Graphic materials.
         (a)   Existing site conditions, including contours at ten-foot
intervals and locations of watercourses, floodplains, unique natural features
and wooded areas;
         (b)   Proposed lot lines and plot designs;
         (c)   Proposed location, size in square feet and general appearance of
all existing and proposed buildings (both residential and non-residential) and
other structures and facilities;
         (d)   Location and size in acres or square feet of all areas to be
conveyed, dedicated or reserved as common open spaces, public parks,
recreational areas, school sites and similar public and semi-public uses;
         (e)   Existing and proposed vehicular circulation system, including
off-street parking and loading areas and major points of ingress and egress to
the development (notations of proposed ownership, public or private, should be
included where appropriate);
         (f)   Existing and proposed pedestrian circulation system, including
its relationship to the vehicular circulation system and proposed treatments of
points of conflict;
         (g)   Existing and proposed utility systems, including sanitary
sewers, storm sewers and water, electric, gas and telephone lines;
         (h)   General landscape plan indicating the treatment of both private
and common open spaces and the location of required buffer strips;
         (i)   Enough information on land areas adjacent to the proposed PUD to
indicate the relationships between the proposed development and existing and
proposed adjacent areas; and
         (j)   Any additional information required by the city to evaluate the
character and impact of the proposed PUD.
   (C)   Advisory report, criteria considered. The Zoning Board of Appeals
shall submit to the Council a written advisory report concerning acceptance/
rejection of the development plan. In deciding what its advice should be, the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall consider the following criteria:
      (1)   The extent to which the proposed development is consistent with the
city’s Comprehensive Plan and with the purposes of this chapter and of all
other applicable codes and ordinances;
      (2)   The extent to which the proposed development deviates from the
regulations that are generally applicable to the property (including, but not
limited to, the use and lot and building regulations of the district), and the
apparent merits (if any) of said deviations;
      (3)   Whether the proposed design of the PUD makes adequate provisions
for vehicular and pedestrian circulation, off-street parking and loading,
separation of residential and commercial uses, open space, recreational
facilities, preservation of natural features and so forth;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed PUD with adjacent properties and
surrounding area; and
      (5)   Any other reasonable criteria that the Zoning Board of Appeals may
devise.
   (D)   Decision by Council. After the Zoning Board of Appeals has submitted
its advisory report, the Council, by resolution, either approve or disapprove
the PUD development plan. The Council shall not approve any PUD development
unless:
      (1)   The developer has posted a performance bond or deposited funds in
escrow in the amount of the City Engineer deems sufficient to guarantee the
satisfactory completion of all required improvements; and
      (2)   The City Attorney has stated that all legal instruments
(particularly the restrictive covenants) are satisfactory; and
      (3)   The proposed PUD, as evidenced by the development plan, complies
with all applicable codes and ordinances. (Deviations to the extent permitted
under §
162.053 of this chapter shall not be deemed non-compliance.)
(1960 Code, § 60-4-5)
§ 162.055 CHANGES IN APPROVED PLANS.
   No changes shall be made to any approved PUD development plan, except as
follows.
   (A)   Minor changes if required by engineering or other circumstances not
foreseen at the time the final development plan was approved.
   (B)   All other changes shall require a public hearing before the Zoning
Board of Appeals and a resolution by the Council.
   (C)   No approved change shall have any effect until it is recorded with the
County Recorder of Deeds as an amendment to the recorded copy of the
development plan.
(1960 Code, § 60-4-6) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.056 FAILURE TO BEGIN DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   (1)   If a substantial amount of construction has not begun within the
time stated in the approved construction schedule, the development plan shall
lapse upon the written notice to the applicant from the Council and shall be of
no further effect.
      (2)   However, in its discretion and for good cause, the Council may
extend for a reasonable time the period for the beginning of construction.
   (B)   If a final development plan lapses, as per this section:
      (1)   The special use permit shall be automatically revoked;
      (2)   Any building permits shall automatically become null and void; and
      (3)   All regulations applicable before the PUD was approved shall
automatically be in full effect.
(1960 Code, § 60-4-7)
§ 162.057 MUNICIPAL EXEMPTION.
   The city, in conjunction with any existing or proposed city development,
shall be exempt from all of the provisions of this chapter. (This is applicable
to §
162.056 of this chapter.)
(1960 Code, § 60-4-8)
INDUSTRIAL PARKS
§ 162.070 TERM.
   As used in this chapter, the term INDUSTRIAL PARK means a development
wherein, in accordance with an approved development plan, various individual
businesses, both industrial and commercial, will coexist and share in the costs
of providing utilities and services to the development.
(1960 Code, § 60-5-1) (Ord. 4674, passed 9-18-1989)
§ 162.071 PURPOSE.
   This chapter authorizes the development of industrial parks and establishes
procedures in order to achieve the objectives enumerated in §
162.001 of this chapter and the following additional objectives:
   (A)   To provide a regulatory mechanism whereby the city can be assured that
upon completion, approved development projects will substantially conform to
the plans which constitute the basis for the city’s issuance of necessary
zoning, subdivision and/or building permits;
   (B)   To permit development of a wide variety of structures and uses in a
single comprehensive planned project;
   (C)   To encourage innovative site layouts and coordinated architectural
treatment of different structures;
   (D)   To ensure the provision of various amenities serving all residents
within the industrial park;
   (E)   To facilitate the economical installation of standard streets, sewers,
utilities and other improvements; and
   (F)   To assure that common standards of appearance, landscaping, loading
and storage, signage and waste management will be followed by all residents
within the industrial park.
(1960 Code, § 60-5-2) (Ord. 4674, passed 9-18-1989)
§ 162.072 COMPLIANCE WITH CODES GENERALLY REQUIRED.
   Important: except as specifically provided otherwise in this section,
industrial parks, including all structures and uses therein, shall, at a
minimum, be built in conformity with all applicable codes and ordinances
including, but not limited to, this chapter,
Ch. 150,
151,
152,
155 and
161 of this code of ordinances.
(1960 Code, § 60-5-3) (Ord. 4674, passed 9-18-1989) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.073 DISTRICTS WHERE ALLOWED.
   Industrial parks may be built in zoning districts C-1, C-2, C-3, C-4, C-5,
D-1 and D-2, but only upon the issuance of special use permit.
(1960 Code, § 60-5-4) (Ord. 4674, passed 9-18-1989)
§ 162.074 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Industrial parks constructed under special use permits under this chapter
shall comply with the following additional regulations which shall take
precedence if in conflict with other provisions of this chapter.
   (A)   Building lines. No building or structure shall be erected closer than
75 feet to the front lot line.
   (B)   Loading docks. Truck loading docks shall be constructed only on the
side or rear of any building or structure, and the traffic area shall be paved.
Truck loading docks shall be located so as to accommodate all trucks and
trailers without requiring maneuvering or protrusion into any public street
during the time of loading and unloading.
   (C)   Outdoor storage. All raw materials and finished goods must be stored
within the developer’s structure. Whenever temporary, open storage of any type
of material, goods, equipment or supplies is necessary, such open storage shall
be contained within a fenced area at least six feet in height, and so
constructed to prevent the storage items from being seen from any public road.
   (D)   Signage. No billboards or advertising signs other than those
identifying the name, business and primary product being produced on that land
shall be permitted. All signs shall comply with
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances.
   (E)   Waste and refuse. No waste material or refuse shall be dumped on or
permitted to remain on any part of the property outside of the buildings
constructed thereon.
   (F)   Landscaping and grounds maintenance. All unpaved land between the
front of the building and the front property line shall be landscaped. All
landscaped and grass areas shall be maintained at all times by the developer or
assignee in a clean, presentable and safe condition. The developer or assignee
of the property shall be fully responsible at all times for the removal of
undergrowth, debris, rubbish, trash, excessive dirt, industrial waste, garbage
or any other unsightly materials.
   (G)   Fencing and screening. All fencing and screening, for security or
other purposes, shall be attractive in appearance and shall be of an all metal,
industrial type of galvanized or non-ferrous material. No fence, masonry wall,
hedge or mass planting shall be permitted to extend beyond the building set
back lines set forth above.
(1960 Code, § 60-5-5) (Ord. 4674, passed 9-18-1989) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.075 INDUSTRIAL PARK PROCEDURES.
   (A)   General. Every applicant for Industrial Park approval shall comply
with the procedural requirements of this section. The required procedures are
as follows:
      (1)   Filing development plan with the Administrator;
      (2)   Provision by the developer of adequate assurance for the completion
of required improvements as per the development plan;
      (3)   Review of the development plan by the Zoning Board of Appeals;
      (4)   Public hearing by the Zoning Board of Appeals as per the
requirement of §§
162.515 through
162.520 of this chapter;
      (5)   Recommendation by the Zoning Board of Appeals to the City Council
regarding approval/rejection of the development plan; and
      (6)   Action by City Council on the development plan.
   (B)   Application, information required. Every applicant applying for
approval of an industrial park development plan shall submit to the
Administrator, in narrative and/or graphic form, the items of information
listed below.
      (1)   Written documents.
         (a)   Legal description of the total site proposed for development;
         (b)   Names and addresses of all owners of property within or adjacent
to the proposed industrial park;
         (c)   Statement of the planning objectives to be achieved by the
industrial park through the particular approach proposed by the applicant,
including a description of the character of the proposed development and the
rationale behind the assumptions and choices made by the applicant;
         (d)   Development schedule indicating the approximate date when
construction can be expected to begin and be completed; and
         (e)   Statement of the applicant’s intentions with regard to the
future selling or leasing of all or portions of the industrial park.
      (2)   Graphic materials.
         (a)   Existing site conditions including contours at ten-foot
intervals and locations of watercourses, floodplains, unique natural features
and wooded areas;
         (b)   Proposed lot lines and plot designs;
         (c)   Location and size in acres or square feet of all areas to be
conveyed, dedicated or reserved as common open spaces, public parks,
recreational areas, school sites and similar public and semi-public uses;
         (d)   Existing and proposed vehicular circulation system, including
off-street parking and loading areas and major points of ingress and egress to
the development (notations of proposed ownership, public or private, should be
included where appropriate);
         (e)   Existing and proposed pedestrian circulations system, including
its relationship to the vehicular circulation system and proposed treatments of
points of conflict;
         (f)   Existing and proposed utility systems including sanitary sewers,
storm sewer and water, electric, gas and telephone lines;
         (g)   General landscape plans indicating the treatment of both private
and common open spaces and the location of required buffer stipes;
         (h)   Enough information on land areas adjacent to the proposed
industrial park to indicate the relationships between the proposed development
and existing and proposed adjacent areas; and
         (i)   Any additional information required by the city to evaluate the
character and impact of the proposed industrial park.
   (C)   Advisory report, criteria considered. The Zoning Board of Appeals
shall submit to the Council a written advisory report concerning acceptance/
rejection of the development plan. In deciding what its advice should be, the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall consider the following criteria:
      (1)   The extent to which the proposed development is consistent with the
city’s Comprehensive Plan and with the purposes of this section and of all
other applicable codes and ordinances;
      (2)   The extent to which the proposed development deviates from the
regulations that are generally applicable to the property (including but not
limited to, the use and lot and building regulations of the district), and the
apparent merits (if any) of said deviations;
      (3)   Whether the proposed design of the industrial park makes adequate
provisions for vehicular and pedestrian circulation, off-street parking and
loading;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed industrial park with adjacent
properties and surrounding area; and
      (5)   Any other reasonable criteria that the Zoning Board of Appeals may
devise.
   (D)   Decision by Council. After the Zoning Board of Appeals has submitted
its advisory report, the Council, by resolution, either approves or disapproves
the industrial park development plan. The Council shall not approve any
development plan unless:
      (1)   The developer has posted a performance bond or deposited funds in
escrow in the amount the City Engineer deems sufficient to guarantee the
satisfactory completion of all required improvements; and
      (2)   The City Attorney has stated that all legal instruments
(particularly the restrictive covenants) are satisfactory; and
      (3)   The proposed industrial park, as evidenced by the development plan,
complies with all applicable codes and ordinances. (Deviations to the extent
permitted under §
162.399(D) shall not be deemed non-compliance.)
(1960 Code, § 60-5-6) (Ord. 4674, passed 9-18-1989)
§ 162.076 CHANGES IN APPROVED PLANS.
   (A)   No changes shall be made to any approved industrial park development
plan, except as follows:
      (1)   Minor changes if required by engineering or other circumstances not
foreseen at the time the final development plan was approved; and
      (2)   All other changes shall require a public hearing before the Zoning
Board of Appeals and a resolution by the Council.
   (B)   No approved change shall have any effect until it is recorded with the
County Recorder of Deeds as an amendment to the recorded copy of the
development plan.
(1960 Code, § 60-5-7) (Ord. 4674, passed 9-18-1989)
§ 162.077 FAILURE TO BEGIN DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   If a substantial amount of construction has not begun within the time
stated in the approved construction schedule, the development plan shall lapse
upon written notice to the applicant from the Council and shall be of no
further effect. However, in its discretion and for good cause, the Council may
extend for a reasonable time the period for the beginning of construction.
   (B)   If a final development plan lapses, as per this section:
      (1)   The special use permit shall be automatically revoked;
      (2)   Any building permits shall automatically become null and void; and
      (3)   All regulations applicable before the industrial park was approved
shall automatically be in full effect.
(1960 Code, § 60-5-8) (Ord. 4674, passed 9-18-1989)
“A-1” SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
§ 162.090 PURPOSE.
   The “A-1” Single-Family District is established to stabilize and conserve
existing neighborhoods that predominantly consist of single-family dwellings.
This district is also intended to promote the development of comparable new
areas in order to accommodate all persons desiring this type of residential
development.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-1)
§ 162.091 ONE PRINCIPAL BUILDING ON ONE LOT.
   In the “A-1” District, only one principal building shall be erected on any
lot.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-2)
§ 162.092 LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every principal building erected in any “A-1” District shall conform to the
applicable requirements indicated in tabular form below:
Maximum building height            35 ft.
Maximum percentage of lot building 30%
coverage
Minimum lot area                   10,000 sq. ft.
Minimum lot depth                  100 ft.
Minimum lot width                  48 ft. (at established building line)
Minimum setbacks
   From front lot line          25 ft.
   From side lot line           5 ft.
   From rear lot line           25 ft.
 
(1960 Code, § 60-6-3) (Ord. 7130, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 162.093 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Detached single-family dwellings;
   (B)   Home occupations as permitted in accordance with §
162.394 of this chapter; and
   (C)   Small community residence; provided:
      (1)   They are located not less than 660 feet from another community
residence, said distance shall be measured in a straight line from property
lines; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a certificate of zoning compliance is applied
for and received.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-4) (Ord. 5326, passed 10-3-1994; Ord. 5831, passed 1-5-1998)
§ 162.094 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Bed and breakfast establishments;
   (B)   Home occupations other than those specifically permitted in accordance
with § 162.394 of this chapter;
   (C)   Large community residences whether located more or less than 660 feet
from another community residence:
      (1)   The City Council finds that the cumulative effect of such use would
not alter the residential character of the neighborhood or, if not a
residential neighborhood, the general character of the neighborhood, would not
create an institutional setting, and its operation would not create an adverse
effect on surrounding properties; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a special use permit is applied for and
received.
   (D)   Metal buildings larger than 150 square feet in area;
   (E)   Planned unit developments;
   (F)   Modular homes;
   (G)   Small community residences located less than 660 feet from any other
community residence:
      (1)   The City Council finds that the cumulative effect of such use would
not alter the residential character of the neighborhood, would not create an
institutional setting, or its operation would not create an adverse effect on
surrounding properties; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a certificate of zoning compliance is applied
for and received;
   (H)   Personal solar energy system (PSES);
   (I)   Solar farm energy system (SFES); and
   (J)   Short-term rentals.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-5) (Ord. 5039, passed - -; Ord. 5326, passed 10-3-1994; Ord.
5831, passed 1-5-1998; Ord. 7174, passed 8-18-2008; Ord. 8283, passed 12-3-
2018; Ord. 9322-2024, passed 10-7-2024)
“A-1A” SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
§ 162.105 PURPOSE.
   The “A-1A” Single-Family District is established to stabilize and conserve
existing neighborhoods that predominantly consist of single-family dwellings.
This district is also intended to promote the development of comparable new
areas in order to accommodate all persons desiring this type of residential
development.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-8)
§ 162.106 ONE PRINCIPAL BUILDING ON ONE LOT.
   In the “A-1A” District, only one principal building shall be erected on any
lot.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-9)
§ 162.107 LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every principal building erected in any “A-1A” District shall conform to the
applicable requirements indicated in tabular form below:
Maximum building height            35 ft.
Maximum percentage of lot building 30%
coverage
Minimum lot area                   10,000 sq. ft.
Minimum lot depth                  100 ft.
Minimum lot width                  80 ft. (at established building line)
Minimum setbacks
   From front lot line          25 ft.
   From side lot line           10 ft.
   From rear lot line           25 ft.
 
(1960 Code, § 60-6-10)
§ 162.108 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Small community residence; provided:
      (1)   They are located not less than 660 feet from another community
residence, said distance shall be measured in a straight line from property
lines; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a certificate of zoning compliance is applied
for and received.
   (B)   Home occupations as permitted in accordance with §
162.394 of this chapter; and
   (C)   Detached single-family dwellings.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-11) (Ord. 5326, passed 10-3-1994; Ord. 5831, passed 1-5-
1998)
§ 162.109 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Home occupations other than those specifically permitted in accordance
with §
162.394 of this chapter;
   (B)   Planned unit developments;
   (C)   Metal buildings larger than 150 square feet in area;
   (D)   Modular homes;
   (E)   Small community residences located less than 660 feet from any other
community residence:
      (1)   The City Council finds that the cumulative effect of such use would
not alter the residential character of the neighborhood, would not create an
institutional setting or its operation would not create an adverse effect on
surrounding properties; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a certificate of zoning compliance is applied
for and received;
   (F)   Large community residences whether located more or less than 660 feet
from another community residence:
      (1)   The City Council finds that the cumulative effect of such use would
not alter the residential character of the neighborhood or, if not a
residential neighborhood, the general character of the neighborhood, would not
create an institutional setting and its operation would not create an adverse
effect on surrounding properties; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a special use permit is applied for and
received;
   (G)   Personal solar energy system (PSES); and
   (H)   Solar farm energy system (SFES).
(1960 Code, § 60-6-12) (Ord. 5326, passed 10-3-1994; Ord. 5831, passed 1-5-
1998; Ord. 7174, passed 8-18-2008; Ord. 8283-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
“A-1(H)” SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
§ 162.120 PURPOSE.
   The “A-1(H)” Single-Family District is established to stabilize and conserve
existing neighborhoods that predominantly consist of single-family dwellings.
This district is also intended to promote the development of comparable new
areas in order to accommodate all persons desiring this type of residential
development.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-13.1)
§ 162.121 ONE PRINCIPAL BUILDING ON ONE LOT.
   In the “A-1(H)” District, only one principal building shall be erected on
any lot.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-13.2)
§ 162.122 LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every principal building erected in any “A-1(H)” District shall conform to
the applicable requirements indicated in tabular form below:
Maximum building height            35 ft.
Maximum percentage of lot building 30%
coverage
Minimum lot area                   7,500 sq. ft.
Minimum lot depth                  100 ft.
Minimum lot width                  60 ft. (at established building line)
Minimum setbacks
   From front lot line          25 ft.
   From side lot line if one sto7.5 ft.
   From side lot line if two sto9 ft.
   From rear lot line           25 ft.
 
(1960 Code, § 60-6-13.3)
§ 162.123 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Small community residence; provided:
      (1)   They are located not less than 660 feet from another community
residence, said distance shall be measured in a straight line from property
lines; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a certificate of zoning compliance is applied
for and received.
   (B)   Home occupations as permitted in accordance with §
162.394 of this chapter; and
   (C)   Detached single-family dwellings.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-13.4)
§ 162.124 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Home occupations other than those specifically permitted in accordance
with §
162.394 of this chapter;
   (B)   Planned unit developments;
   (C)   Modular homes;
   (D)   Small community residences located less than 660 feet from any other
community residence:
      (1)   The City Council finds that the cumulative effect of such use would
not alter the residential character of the neighborhood, would not create an
institutional setting or its operation would not create an adverse effect on
surrounding properties; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a certificate of zoning compliance is applied
for and received;
   (E)   Large community residences whether located more or less than 660 feet
from another community residence:
      (1)   The City Council finds that the cumulative effect of such use would
not alter the residential character of the neighborhood or, if not a
residential neighborhood, the general character of the neighborhood, would not
create an institutional setting and its operation would not create an adverse
effect on surrounding properties; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a special use permit is applied for and
received;
   (F)   Personal solar energy system (PSES); and
   (G)   Solar farm energy system (SFES).
(1960 Code, § 60-6-13.5) (Ord. 8283-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
“A-1(M)” SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
§ 162.135 PURPOSE.
   The “A-1(M)” Single-Family District is established to stabilize and conserve
existing neighborhoods that predominantly consist of single-family dwellings.
This district is also intended to promote the development of comparable new
areas in order to accommodate all persons desiring this type of residential
development.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-13.6)
§ 162.136 ONE PRINCIPAL BUILDING ON ONE LOT.
   In the “A-1(M)” District, only one principal building shall be erected on
any lot.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-13.7)
§ 162.137 LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every principal building erected in any “A-1(M)” District shall conform to
the applicable requirements indicated in tabular form below:
Maximum building height            35 ft.
Maximum percentage of lot building 30%
coverage
Minimum lot area                   8,750 sq. ft.
Minimum lot depth                  100 ft.
Minimum lot width                  70 ft. (at established building line)
Minimum setbacks
   From front lot line          25 ft.
   From side lot line if one sto10 ft.
   From side lot line if two sto12.5 ft.
   From rear lot line           25 ft.
 
(1960 Code, § 60-6-13.8)
§ 162.138 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Small community residence; provided:
      (1)   They are located not less than 660 feet from another community
residence, said distance shall be measured in a straight line from property
lines; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a certificate of zoning compliance is applied
for and received.
   (B)   Home occupations as permitted in accordance with §
162.394 of this chapter; and
   (C)   Detached single-family dwellings.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-13.9)
§ 162.139 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Home occupations other than those specifically permitted in accordance
with §
162.394 of this chapter;
   (B)   Planned unit developments;
   (C)   Metal buildings larger than 150 square feet in area;
   (D)   Modular homes;
   (E)   Small community residences located less than 660 feet from any other
community residence:
      (1)   The City Council finds that the cumulative effect of such use would
not alter the residential character of the neighborhood, would not create an
institutional setting or its operation would not create an adverse effect on
surrounding properties; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a certificate of zoning compliance is applied
for and received;
   (F)   Large community residences whether located more or less than 660 feet
from another community residence:
      (1)   The City Council finds that the cumulative effect of such use would
not alter the residential character of the neighborhood or, if not a
residential neighborhood, the general character of the neighborhood, would not
create an institutional setting and its operation would not create an adverse
effect on surrounding properties; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a special use permit is applied for and
received;
   (G)   Personal solar energy system (PSES); and
   (H)   Solar farm energy system (SFES).
(1960 Code, § 60-6-13.10) (Ord. 7174, passed 8-18-2008; Ord. 8283-2018, passed
12-3-2018)
“A-1(L)” SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
§ 162.150 PURPOSE.
   The “A-1(L)” Single-Family District is established to stabilize and conserve
existing neighborhoods that predominantly consist of single-family dwellings.
This district is also intended to promote the development of comparable new
areas in order to accommodate all persons desiring this type of residential
development.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-13.11)
§ 162.151 ONE PRINCIPAL BUILDING ON ONE LOT.
   In the “A-1(L)” District, only one principal building shall be erected on
any lot.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-13.12)
§ 162.152 LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every principal building erected in any “A-1(L)” District shall conform to
the applicable requirements indicated in tabular form below:
Maximum building height            35 ft.
Maximum percentage of lot building 30%
coverage
Minimum lot area                   10,000 sq. ft.
Minimum lot depth                  100 ft.
Minimum lot width                  80 ft. (at established building line)
Minimum setbacks
   From front lot line          25 ft.
   From side lot line if one sto12 ft.
   From side lot line if two sto14 ft.
   From rear lot line           25 ft.
 
(1960 Code, § 60-6-13.13)
§ 162.153 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Small community residence; provided:
      (1)   They are located not less than 660 feet from another community
residence, said distance shall be measured in a straight line from property
lines; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a certificate of zoning compliance is applied
for and received.
   (B)   Home occupations as permitted in accordance with §
162.394 of this chapter; and
   (C)   Detached single-family dwellings.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-13.14)
§ 162.154 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Home occupations other than those specifically permitted in accordance
with §
162.394 of this chapter;
   (B)   Planned unit developments;
   (C)   Metal buildings larger than 150 square feet in area;
   (D)   Modular homes;
   (E)   Small community residences located less than 660 feet from any other
community residence:
      (1)   The City Council finds that the cumulative effect of such use would
not alter the residential character of the neighborhood, would not create an
institutional setting or its operation would not create an adverse effect on
surrounding properties; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a certificate of zoning compliance is applied
for and received;
   (F)   Large community residences whether located more or less than 660 feet
from another community residence:
      (1)   The City Council finds that the cumulative effect of such use would
not alter the residential character of the neighborhood or, if not a
residential neighborhood, the general character of the neighborhood, would not
create an institutional setting and its operation would not create an adverse
effect on surrounding properties; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a special use permit is applied for and
received;
   (G)   Personal solar energy system (PSES); and
   (H)   Solar farm energy system.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-13.15) (Ord. 7174, passed 8-18-2008; Ord. 8283-2018, passed
12-3-2018)
“A-2” TWO-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
§ 162.165 PURPOSE.
   The “A-2” Two-Family Residence is established to stabilize and conserve and
promote the development of areas suitable for two-family dwellings and other
similar uses.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-15)
§ 162.166 ONE PRINCIPAL BUILDING ON ONE LOT.
   In the “A-2” District, only one principal building shall be erected on any
lot.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-16)
§ 162.167 LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every principal building erected in any “A-2” District shall conform to the
applicable requirements indicated in tabular form below:
Maximum building height            35 ft.
Maximum percentage of lot building 30%
coverage
Minimum lot area                   12,000 sq. ft.
Minimum lot depth                  100 ft.
Minimum lot width                  48 ft. (at established building line)
Minimum setbacks
   From front lot line          25 ft.
   From side lot line           5 ft.
   From rear lot line           25 ft.
 
(1960 Code, § 60-6-17) (Ord. 7174, passed 8-18-2008)
§ 162.168 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Dwelling houses, each occupied by not more than two families;
   (B)   Playgrounds, parks;
   (C)   Cemeteries;
   (D)   Churches;
   (E)   Public libraries or museums;
   (F)   Public or private schools;
   (G)   Home occupations as permitted in accordance with §
162.394 of this chapter;
   (H)   Homes for the aged;
   (I)   Modular homes;
   (J)   Municipal buildings and swimming pools;
   (K)   Nursing homes;
   (L)   Prefabricated/sectional homes; and
   (M)   Small community residence; provided:
      (1)   They are located not less than 660 feet from another community
residence, said distance shall be measured in a straight line from property
lines; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a certificate of zoning compliance is applied
for and received.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-18) (Ord. 4059, passed - -; Ord. 4705, passed - -; Ord.
5256, passed 5-2-1994; Ord. 5326, passed 10-3-1994; Ord. 5831, passed 1-5-1998;
Ord. 9097-2022, passed 11-7-2022)
§ 162.169 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Bed and breakfast establishments;
   (B)   Dormitory;
   (C)   Halfway house provided that it is not less than 1,320 feet from
another halfway house or community residence, and said distance shall be
measured in a straight line from property lines;
   (D)   Home occupations other than those specifically permitted in accordance
with §
162.394 of this chapter;
   (E)   Metal buildings larger than 150 square feet in area;
   (F)   Planned unit developments;
   (G)   Small community residences located less than 660 feet from any other
community residence:
      (1)   The City Council finds that the cumulative effect of such use would
not alter the residential character of the neighborhood, would not create an
institutional setting or its operation would not create an adverse effect on
surrounding properties; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a certificate of zoning compliance is applied
for and received;
   (H)   Large community residences whether located more or less than 660 feet
from another community residence:
      (1)   The City Council finds that the cumulative effect of such use would
not alter the residential character of the neighborhood or, if not a
residential neighborhood, the general character of the neighborhood, would not
create an institutional setting and its operation would not create an adverse
effect on surrounding properties; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a special use permit is applied for and
received;
   (I)   Student dwelling unit;
   (J)   Personal solar energy system (PSES);
   (K)   Solar farm energy system (SFES); and
   (L)   Short-term rentals.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-19) (Ord. 5039, passed - -; Ord. 5326, passed 10-3-1994;
Ord. 5831, passed 1-5-1998; Ord. 7174, passed 8-18-2008; Ord. 7278, passed 6-
15-2009; Ord. 7634, passed 10-15-2012; Ord. 8283-2018, passed 12-3-2018; Ord.
9322-2024, passed 10-7-2024)
“B-1” MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
§ 162.180 PURPOSE.
   The “B-1” Multi-Family Residence District is established to stabilize,
conserve and promote the development of areas suitable for multi-family
dwelling and other similar uses.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-22)
§ 162.181 LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every principal building erected in any “B-1” District shall conform to the
applicable requirements indicated in tabular form below:
Maximum building height            35 ft.
Maximum percentage of lot building 40%
coverage
Minimum lot area                   16,000 sq. ft. or 4,000 sq. ft. per
                                   dwelling unit, whichever is greater
Minimum lot depth                  100 ft.
Minimum lot width                  50 ft. (at established building line)
Minimum setbacks
   From front lot line          25 ft.
   From side lot line           10 ft.
   From rear lot line           25 ft.
 
(1960 Code, § 60-6-23) (Ord. 7174, passed 8-18-2008)
§ 162.182 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Condominiums;
   (B)   Home occupations as permitted in accordance with §
162.394 of this chapter;
   (C)   Large community residences of up to 15 persons; provided:
      (1)   They are located not less than 660 feet from another community
residence, whether large or small, said distance shall be measured in a
straight line from property lines; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a certificate of zoning compliance is applied
for and received.
   (D)   Modular homes;
   (E)   Multi-family dwellings;
   (F)   Prefabricated/sectional homes;
   (G)   Row houses;
   (H)   Small community residence; provided:
      (1)   They are located not less than 660 feet from another community
residence, said distance shall be measured in a straight line from property
lines; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a certificate of zoning compliance is applied
for and received.
   (I)   Single-family dwellings and modular homes;
   (J)   Two-family dwellings; and
   (K)   All other uses permitted in the “A-2” District.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-24) (Ord. 5256, passed 5-2-1994; Ord. 5326, passed 10-3-
1994; Ord. 5831, passed 1-5-1998)
§ 162.183 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Bed and breakfast establishments;
   (B)   Dormitory;
   (C)   Metal buildings larger than 150 square feet in area;
   (D)   Modular homes;
   (E)   Planned unit developments;
   (F)   Home occupations other than those specifically permitted in accordance
with §
162.394 of this chapter;
   (G)   Small community residences located less than 660 feet from any other
community residence:
      (1)   The City Council finds that the cumulative effect of such use would
not alter the residential character of the neighborhood, would not create an
institutional setting or its operation would not create an adverse effect on
surrounding properties; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a certificate of zoning compliance is applied
for and received;
   (H)   Student dwelling unit;
   (I)   Large community residences whether located more or less than 660 feet
from another community residence:
      (1)   The City Council finds that the cumulative effect of such use would
not alter the residential character of the neighborhood or, if not a
residential neighborhood, the general character of the neighborhood, would not
create an institutional setting or its operation would not create an adverse
effect on surrounding properties; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a special use permit is applied for and
received;
   (J)   Personal solar energy system (PSES);
   (K)   Solar farm energy system (SFES); and
   (L)   Short-term rentals.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-25) (Ord. 5039, passed - -; Ord. 5326, passed 10-3-1994;
Ord. 5831, passed 1-5-1998; Ord. 7174, passed 8-18-2008; Ord. 7634, passed 10-
15-2012; Ord. 8283-2018, passed 12-3-2018; Ord. 9322-2024, passed 10-7-2024)
“MH-1” MOBILE HOME RESIDENCE DISTRICT
§ 162.195 PURPOSE.
   The “MH-1” Mobile Home Residence District is established to provide areas
where mobile homes can be permanently placed upon individual lots within the
city.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-28)
§ 162.196 LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every principal building erected in any “MH-1” District shall conform to the
applicable requirements indicated in tabular form below:
Maximum building height            35 ft.
Maximum percentage of lot building 30%
coverage
Minimum lot area                   6,000 sq. ft.
Minimum lot depth                  100 ft.
Minimum lot width                  50 ft. (at established building line)
Minimum setbacks
   From front lot line          25 ft.
   From side lot line           5 ft.
   From rear lot line           25 ft.
 
(1960 Code, § 60-6-29)
§ 162.197 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Mobile homes; provided, they are permanently fixed to the ground and
comply with the following regulations.
      (1)   The foundation shall extend into the ground below the frost line so
as to attach and become part of the real estate. Materials such as concrete,
mortared block or mortared brick extending into the ground below the frost line
shall satisfy the requirements for a permanent foundation.
      (2)   As an alternate to division (A)(1) above, piers may be used,
extending into the ground below the frost line, and sufficient in number to
properly support the mobile home. In either divisions (A)(1) above or this
division (B), the specifications for foundations found in §
156.26(L) of this code of ordinances.
      (3)   To complete the immobilization, wheels, tongue and hitch must be
permanently removed. Wheels must be removed in such a manner that they may not
be easily replaced. Therefore, either the axle would have to be removed or at
least the lug bolts holding the wheels to the axle removed. The tongue and
hitch must be removed by either removing the tongue and hitch from the frame or
removing the bolts holding the tongue and hitch to the frame.
      (4)   Each mobile home shall be skirted with fire-resistant material or
have a built up perimeter foundation of either concrete, mortared block or
mortared brick to the lower edge of the mobile home. Skirting shall be equipped
with an inspection door at least 24 inches wide to allow access to the
underside of the mobile home. Built up perimeter foundations shall provide an
access to the underside of the mobile home either by an inspection door of at
least 24 inches wide or a scuttle hole door through the floor of the mobile
home.
      (5)   Each mobile home shall be affixed to its foundation by means of an
anchor capable of withstanding a verticle tension force of 4,800 pounds without
failure at each corner of the mobile home or its components for double or
triple wides.
      (6)   Each mobile home shall further be affixed to its foundation by
means of one set of frame ties (attached to the frame beneath the home to
prevent its sliding downwind off its supports) for every ten feet of length of
the home; and, where the mobile home is 12 feet or less in width, at least two
sets of over-the-top ties positioned not more than five feet from each end of
the home to prevent overturning.
      (7)   For those homes which are so constructed to be placed upon a
perimeter foundation, they may be affixed by means of anchor bolts imbedded
into the foundation as specified in the city’s building codes.
   (B)   Home occupations as permitted in accordance with §
162.394 of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-3) (Ord. 5326, passed 10-3-1994)
§ 162.198 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Home occupations other than those specifically permitted in accordance
with §
162.394 of this chapter;
   (B)   Metal buildings larger than 150 square feet in area;
   (C)   Planned unit developments;
   (D)   Small community residences located less than 660 feet from any other
community residence:
      (1)   The City Council finds that the cumulative effect of such use would
not alter the residential character of the neighborhood, would not create an
institutional setting or its operation would not create an adverse effect on
surrounding properties; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a certificate of zoning compliance is applied
for and received;
   (E)   Large community residences whether located more or less than 660 feet
from another community residence:
      (1)   The City Council finds that the cumulative effect of such use would
not alter the residential character of the neighborhood or, if not a
residential neighborhood, the general character of the neighborhood, would not
create an institutional setting or its operation would not create an adverse
effect on surrounding properties; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a special use permit is applied for and
received;
   (F)   Personal solar energy system (PSES); and
   (G)   Solar farm energy system (SFES).
(1960 Code, § 60-6-31) (Ord. 5326, passed 10-3-1994; Ord. 5831, passed 1-5-
1998; Ord. 7174, passed 8-18-2008; Ord. 8283-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
“MH-2” MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT
§ 162.210 PURPOSE.
   The “MH-2” Mobile Home Park District is intended to provide areas where
mobile homes located within mobile home parks may be located within the city.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-34)
§ 162.211 LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every mobile home constructed in an “MH-2” Mobile Home District shall
conform to the applicable requirements of
Ch. 156 of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-35)
§ 162.212 PERMITTED USES.
   Mobile homes located within mobile home parks.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-36)
§ 162.213 IMMOBILIZATION PROHIBITED.
   Hereafter, it shall be unlawful to immobilize (i.e., to permanently remove
the wheels, tongue and hitch from a mobile home, and/or place any mobile home
on a permanent foundation) any mobile home in the city, except in the MH-1 and
MH-2 Districts.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-37) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.214 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Small community residences located less than 600 feet from another
community residence, or an unlicensed small community residence;
   (B)   Large community residences with over ten persons located within 600
feet from another community residence, or an unlicensed large community
residence;
   (C)   Metal accessory buildings larger than 150 square feet in area;
   (D)   Personal solar energy system (PSES); and
   (E)   Solar farm energy system (SFES).
(1960 Code, § 60-6-38) (Ord. 4770, passed - -; Ord. 7174, passed 8-18-2008;
Ord. 8283-2018, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 162.215 SUPPLEMENTARY RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No mobile home shall be placed on a lot in the city other than a
mobile home site in an approved mobile home park.
   (B)   No mobile home park shall be licensed, constructed or operated, except
in a “MH-2” Zone District.
   (C)   Mobile home parks shall be subject to the following requirements.
      (1)   The following regulations relative to the minimum lot size and
minimum yard dimensions shall apply to the entire tract of land on which the
mobile home park is situated.
         (a)   A mobile home park shall be located on a tract of land not less
than ten acres in area, with minimum width and depth dimensions of 200 feet.
         (b)   Any building structure or mobile home shall be located at least
25 feet from any front lot line or any side lot line adjacent to a street and
15 feet from any rear lot line and at least five feet from any other lot line.
      (2)   No building or structure within the mobile home park will exceed
the height of 35 feet.
      (3)   (a)   There shall be provided, within the boundaries of the mobile
home park site, not less than one and one-half off-street parking spaces for
each mobile home space.
         (b)   The mobile home park site shall have direct access to a public
street or highway by an access way of at least 30 feet in width.
         (c)   Each mobile home space shall abut on a driveway or access way,
at least 24 feet wide, with unobstructed access to a public street. Each mobile
home space shall be located within 100 feet of such driveway or access way.
Appropriate turn around space, sufficient in size to accommodate emergency
vehicles, shall be provided at the terminus of any dead-end access ways in the
mobile home park.
      (4)   (a)   The minimum individual area, width and depth requirements for
mobile home spaces shall be as follows:
 
                            Area          Width  Depth
Individual mobile home space 4,000 sq. ft. 40 ft. 80 ft.
 
         (b)   Spaces shall be arranged and mobile homes parked in such manner
that there is an open space of at least 15 feet by 30 feet at the rear of and
as a part of each mobile home space; except that: where a common recreation
area is provided that contains at least 100 square feet for each mobile home
space, with a minimum total area of 5,000 square feet and the minimum width and
depth dimension of 100 feet, the individual mobile home space may have the
following minimum area, width and depth dimensions:
 
                            Area          Width  Depth
Individual mobile home space 3,500 sq. ft. 40 ft. 70 ft.
 
      (5)   Only single-family residential uses and uses accessory thereto
shall be permitted in a mobile home park.
      (6)   The location for and development of any mobile home park shall have
a compatible relationship to the established street system and shall be such as
to oppose no greater traffic burden on streets than the streets can reasonably
bear.
      (7)   All access drives and parking areas shall be paved or otherwise
surfaced with an all-weather, dust-proof material and graded so as to drain off
all surface water to storm water inlets.
      (8)   A ten-foot landscaped buffer shall be provided for the side, rear
and front yards of the park. In lieu of the landscaped buffer, a five-foot high
wall or opaque wooden fence.
      (9)   No portion of any mobile home park may be located outside the
city’s limits.
   (D)   (1)   Mobile Home Park Districts shall be created by the City Council
upon application and only after public hearing before the Zoning Board of
Appeals which shall then issue a written advisory report to the City Council
recommending approval or denial of the application for a Mobile Home Park
District. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall apply the standards set forth in
this subchapter in rendering its said advisory report and shall include in its
advisory report findings and the reasons therefor.
      (2)   A Mobile Home Park District shall not be created unless it
substantially complies with the specific requirements herein set forth. In
determining whether a specific tract of land shall be designated as a Mobile
Home Park District, the City Council shall take into consideration, in addition
to the specific requirements herein set forth, the following factors:
         (a)   The existing uses and zoning of nearby property;
         (b)   The extent to which property values are diminished by the
particular zoning restrictions;
         (c)   The extent to which the destruction of property values by the
subject property promotes the health, safety, morals or general welfare of the
public;
         (d)   The relative gain to the public as compared to the hardship
imposed on the individual property owner;
         (e)   The suitability of the subject property for the zoned purposes;
         (f)   The length of time the property has been vacant as zoned,
considered in the context of land development in the area and vicinity of the
subject property;
         (g)   Compatibility with the city’s overall zoning plan; and
         (h)   Community need for the proposed mobile home park.
      (9)   In designating a tract of land as a Mobile Home Park District, the
City Council may impose conditions for the reasonable protection of the
immediate neighborhood or the city from any adverse affects of the mobile home
park.
   (E)   The temporary parking of an individual mobile home is permitted
subject to the following regulations.
      (1)   Emergency or temporary stopping of a mobile home shall be allowed
on any street, alley or highway for not longer than two hours, subject to any
further prohibitions, regulations or limitations imposed by the traffic
regulations or laws for such street, alley or highway.
      (2)   An individual mobile home may be parked outside the public right-
of-way, as not otherwise prohibited, for a period of 72 hours; provided that,
no such mobile home is parked nearer than 25 feet to any right-of-way line
abutting a public street.
   (F)   A mobile home may be parked for inspection and sale on any lawful
automobile or trailer or mobile home sales lot.
   (G)   Nowhere in the city shall any mobile home be permitted to be
permanently fixed to the ground in a manner that would prevent its removal;
provided, however, that, this section shall not apply to mobile homes so
situated or permanently fixed as of the date of the passage of this subchapter.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-39) (Ord. 3355, passed 4-19-1976)
§ 162.216 MOBILE HOME SITES AND SPACING.
   (A)   All existing mobile home parks constructed before 10-18-1993 shall not
be required to meet the specific zoning provisions and regulations as specified
in §
162.215 of this chapter with regard to minimum lot size, minimum yard
dimensions and minimum area for individual mobile home spaces.
   (B)   The following requirements however for such existing mobile home parks
shall be complied with.
      (1)   Each mobile home spaces shall have a minimum area of 2,100 square
feet.
      (2)   No mobile home shall be parked or permanently erected closer than
five feet to the side lot lines of a park, or closer than ten feet to a public
street, alley or building. Each individual site/space shall abut or face on a
private or public driveway or roadway. There shall be an open space of at least
ten feet adjacent to the sides of every mobile home and at least five feet
adjacent to the ends of every mobile home.
      (3)   All mobile home sites, irrespective of shape, shall have a minimum
frontage of 25 linear feet.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-40) (Ord. 5428, passed 5-15-1995) Penalty, see §
162.999
“C-1” LIGHT COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 162.230 PURPOSE.
   The “C-1” Light Commercial District is established to conserve and promote
the development of:
   (A)   Office related commercial areas; or
   (B)   Existing residential areas.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-41)
§ 162.231 LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every principal building erected in any “C-1” District shall conform to the
applicable requirements indicated in tabular form below:
Maximum building height            35 ft.
Maximum percentage of lot building 40%
coverage
Minimum lot area                   6,000 sq. ft.
Minimum lot depth                  100 ft.
Minimum lot width                  50 ft. (at established building line)
Minimum setbacks
   From front lot line          25 ft.
   From side lot line           10 ft.
   From rear lot line           25 ft.
 
(1960 Code, § 60-6-42)
§ 162.232 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Funeral home or mortuary;
   (B)   Offices as follows: that of doctor, dentist, insurance sales, real
estate sales, engineering, law, tax consultants, architects and accountants;
and
   (C)   Single-family dwellings; provided, they meet all the requirements of
the “A-1" District.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-43) (Ord. 5039, passed - -; Ord. 6739, passed 5-16-2005;
Ord. 9203-2023, passed 10-16-2023)
§ 162.233 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Dormitory;
   (B)   Industrial parks;
   (C)   Metal buildings larger than 150 square feet in area;
   (D)   Student dwelling unit;
   (E)   Large community residences whether located more or less than 660 feet
from another community residence:
      (1)   The City Council finds that the cumulative effect of such use would
not alter the residential character of the neighborhood or, if not a
residential neighborhood, the general character of the neighborhood, would not
create an institutional setting or its operation would not create an adverse
effect on surrounding properties; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a special use permit is applied for and
received;
   (F)   Nursing home;
   (G)   Planned unit developments;
   (H)   Small community residences located less than 660 feet from any other
community residence:
      (1)   The City Council finds that the cumulative effect of such use would
not alter the residential character of the neighborhood, would not create an
institutional setting or its operation would not create an adverse effect on
surrounding properties; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a certificate of zoning compliance is applied
for and received;
   (I)   Personal solar energy system (PSES);
   (J)   Solar farm energy system (SFES);
   (K)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organizations; provided, they meet all
the requirements of
Chapter 123 (Adult-use cannabis);
   (L)   Day care center;
   (M)   Bed and breakfast establishments;
   (N)   Mixed use residential developments/uses; and
   (O)   Short-term rentals.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-44) (Ord. 4674, passed - -; Ord. 5831, passed 1-5-1998; Ord.
7174, passed 8-18-2008; Ord. 7634, passed 10-15-2012; Ord. 8283-2018, passed
12-3-2018; Am. Ord. 8404-2019, passed 12-19- 2019; Ord. 9097-2022, passed 11-7-
2022; Ord. 9203-2023, passed 10-16-2023; Ord. 9239-2024, passed 1-2-2024; Ord.
9322-2024, passed 10-7-2024)
“C-2” HEAVY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 162.245 PURPOSE.
   The “C-2” Heavy Commercial District is established to promote the
development of a wide range of commercial and related uses.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-47)
§ 162.246 LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every principal building erected in any “C-2” District shall conform to the
applicable requirements indicated in tabular form below:
Maximum building height      100 ft.
Maximum percentage of lot    75%
building coverage
Minimum lot area             6,000 sq. ft.
Minimum lot depth            100 ft.
Minimum lot width            50 ft. (at established building line)
Minimum setbacks
   From front lot line    25 ft.
   From side and rear lot None (except when abutting an “A” District, a 5-foot setback shall be
line                         required)
 
(1960 Code, § 60-6-48)
§ 162.247 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Automotive services; public garages; service stations; service
garages; automobile laundry; provided, the premises are located not less than
50 feet from a residence district; parking lot; lot for the sale of new motor
vehicles or trailers;
   (B)   Reserved;
   (C)   Business offices of all types including office buildings, banks,
business colleges and private trade schools;
   (D)   Eating places of all types;
   (E)   Funeral home or mortuary;
   (F)   Hospitals;
   (G)   Motels and hotels;
   (H)   Reserved;
   (I)   Office as follows: that of doctor, dentist, insurance sales, real
estate sales, engineering, law, tax consultants, architects and accountants;
   (J)   Sale of apparel of all kinds;
   (K)   Sale of foods and beverages of all kinds, including sale for
consumption on the premises;
   (L)   Sale of furniture and household goods, including furniture and
accessory furniture storage;
   (M)   Sale of general merchandise, including sales in department stores;
   (N)   Sale of other goods and merchandise;
   (O)   Service establishments of all types;
   (P)   Single-family dwellings; provided, they meet all the requirements of
the “A-1" District;
   (Q)   Any other building, use or service similar to the uses herein listed
in the types of services or goods sold; and
   (R)   Day care center.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-49) (Ord. 5039, passed - -; Ord. 6739, passed 5-16-2005;
Ord. 9090-2022, passed 10-3- 2022; Ord. 9097-2022, passed 11-7-2022; Ord. 9182-
2023, passed 8-7-2023; Ord. 9203-2023, passed 10-16-2023)
§ 162.248 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Animal shelters, boarding and hospitals;
   (B)   Convenience store, convenience shop, or corner shop;
   (C)   Establishments that hold a Class A, B, C, D, or F liquor license;
   (D)   Exterior commercial amusement and recreational uses such as go-cart
tracks, batting cages, water slides, beer gardens and the like;
   (E)   Industrial park;
   (F)   Large community residences whether located more or less than 660 feet
from another community residence:
      (1)   The City Council finds that the cumulative effect of such use would
not alter the residential character of the neighborhood or, if not a
residential neighborhood, the general character of the neighborhood, would not
create an institutional setting or its operation would not create an adverse
effect on surrounding properties; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a special use permit is applied for and
received;
   (G)   Metal buildings larger than 150 square feet in area;
   (H)   Multi-family dwellings;
   (I)   Outdoor restaurants/dining establishments;
   (J)   Pawnbrokers;
   (K)   Small community residences located less than 660 feet from any other
community residence:
      (1)   The City Council finds that the cumulative effect of such use would
not alter the residential character of the neighborhood, would not create an
institutional setting or its operation would not create an adverse effect on
surrounding properties; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a certificate of zoning compliance is applied
for and received;
   (L)   Used motor vehicle sales;
   (M)   Wholesale businesses, storage buildings, storage sheds and warehouses;
   (N)   Personal solar energy system (PSES);
   (O)   Solar farm energy system (SFES);
   (P)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organizations; provided, they meet all
the requirements of
Chapter 123 (Adult-use cannabis); and
   (Q)   Amusement and recreation: armory, assembly hall, bowling alley, dance
hall, pool and billiards, theater, skating rink or other social, sport or
recreation center operated as a business; provided, the building in which it is
operated is sufficiently sound-insulated to effectively confine the noise to
the premises;
   (R)   Adult-use cannabis craft grower organizations; provided they meet all
the requirements of
Chapter 123 (Adult-use cannabis);
   (S)   Event center provided they meet the requirements of §
162.401;
   (T)   Bar/tavern;
   (U)   Club/lodge;
   (V)   Multiple occupancy non-residential developments/uses;
   (W)   Bed and breakfast establishments;
   (X)   Mixed use residential developments/uses;
   (Y)   Accessory onsite outdoor dining/seating, food sales and/or
entertainment; and
   (Z)   Short-term rentals.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-50) (Ord. 4674, passed - -; Ord. 5196, passed 1-3-1994; Ord.
5548, passed 4-1-1996; Ord. 5831, passed 1-5-1998; Ord. 6075, passed 1-3-2000;
Ord. 6131, passed 5-1-2000; Ord. 6264, passed 2-5-2000; Ord. 7174, passed 8-18-
2008; Ord. 7752, passed 3-3-2014; Ord. 8283-2018, passed 12-3-2018; Ord. 8404-
2019, passed 12-19-2019; Ord. 9055-2022, passed 5-16-2022; Ord. 9090-2022,
passed 10-3- 2022; Ord. 9173-2023, passed 7-3-2023; Ord. 9175-2023, passed 7-3-
2023; Ord. 9182-2023, passed 8-7-2023; Ord. 9203-2023, passed 10-16-2023; Ord.
9239-2024, passed 1-2-2024; Ord. 9322-2024, passed 10-7-2024)
“C-3” COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 162.260 PURPOSE.
   The “C-3” Commercial District is established to conserve and promote the
exclusive development of office related commercial areas.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-53)
§ 162.261 LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every principal building erected in any “C-3” District shall conform to the
applicable requirements indicated in tabular form below:
Maximum building height            35 ft.
Maximum percentage of lot building 40%
coverage
Minimum lot area                   10,000 sq. ft.
Minimum lot depth                  100 ft.
Minimum lot width                  75 ft. (at established building line)
Minimum setbacks
   From front lot line          25 ft.
   From side lot line           10 ft.
   From rear lot line           25 ft.
 
(1960 Code, § 60-6-54)
§ 162.262 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Accessory buildings, land uses, and activities, customarily associated
with any of the uses permitted in the “C-1" and “C-2" Zoning Districts;
   (B)   Business, professional and technical schools and universities;
   (C)   Business and professional offices;
   (D)   Financial institutions;
   (E)   Office buildings, public and private offices; and
   (F)   Professional and scientific laboratories and research facilities.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-55) (Ord. 7652, passed 12-10-2012; Ord. 9203-2023, passed
10-16-2023)
§ 162.263 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Establishments that hold a Class A, B or C liquor license;
   (B)   Large community residences whether located more or less than 660 feet
from another community residence:
      (1)   The City Council finds that the cumulative effect of such use would
not alter the residential character of the neighborhood or, if not a
residential neighborhood, the general character of the neighborhood, would not
create an institutional setting or its operation would not create an adverse
effect on surrounding properties; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a special use permit is applied for and
received;
   (C)   Metal buildings larger than 150 square feet in area;
   (D)   Planned unit developments;
   (E)   Small community residences located more or less than 660 feet from
another community residence:
      (1)   The City Council finds that the cumulative effect of such use would
not alter the residential character of the neighborhood, would not create an
institutional setting or its operation would not create an adverse effect on
surrounding properties; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a special use permit is applied for and
received;
   (F)   Personal solar energy system (PSES);
   (G)   Solar farm energy system (SFES);
   (H)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organizations; provided, they meet all
the requirements of
Chapter 123 (Adult-use cannabis);
   (I)   Day care center;
   (J)   Club/lodge;
   (K)   Multiple occupancy non-residential developments/uses;
   (L)   Bed and breakfast establishments;
   (M)   Mixed use residential developments/uses;
   (N)   Accessory onsite outdoor dining/seating, food sales and/or
entertainment; and
   (O)   Short-term rental.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-56) (Ord. 5831, passed 1-5-1998; Ord. 6264, passed 2-5-2000;
Ord. 7174, passed 8-18-2008; Ord. 8283-2018, passed 12-3-2018; Am. Ord. 8404-
2019, passed 12-19-2019; Ord. 9097-2022, passed 11-7-2022; Ord. 9182-2023,
passed 8-7-2023; Ord. 9203-2023, passed 10-16-2023; Ord. 9239-2024, passed 1-2-
2024; Ord. 9322-2024, passed 10-7-2024)
“C-4” COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 162.275 PURPOSE.
   The “C-4” Commercial District is established to promote the exclusive
development of a wide range of commercial related uses.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-60)
§ 162.276 LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every principal building erected in any “C-4” District shall conform to the
applicable requirements indicated in tabular form below:
Maximum building height      35 ft.
Maximum percentage of lot    50%
building coverage
Minimum lot area             10,000 sq. ft.
Minimum lot depth            100 ft.
Minimum lot width            75 ft. (at established building line)
Minimum setbacks
   From front lot line    25 ft.
   From side and rear lot None (except when abutting an “A” District, a 5-foot setback shall be
line                         required)
 
(1960 Code, § 60-6-61) (Ord. 4960, passed 9-15-1992)
§ 162.277 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Automotive services; public garages; service stations; service
garages; automobile laundry; provided, the premises are located not less than
50 feet from a residence district; parking lot; lot for the sale of new motor
vehicles or trailers;
   (B)   Reserved;
   (C)   Eating places of all types;
   (D)   Funeral homes and mortuaries;
   (E)   Motels and hotels;
   (F)   Reserved;
   (G)   Sale of apparel of all kinds;
   (H)   Sale of foods and beverages of all kinds, including sale for
consumption on the premises;
   (I)   Sale of furniture and household goods;
   (J)   Sale of general merchandise;
   (K)   Sale of other goods and merchandise;
   (L)   Service establishments of all types; and
   (M)   Day care center.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-62) (Ord. 4960, passed 6-15-1992; Ord. 5039, passed - -;
Ord. 9090-2022, passed 10-3- 2022; Ord. 9097-2022, passed 11-7-2022; Ord. 9182-
2023, passed 8-7-2023; Ord. 9203-2023, passed 10-16-2023)
§ 162.278 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Animal shelters, boarding and hospitals;
   (B)   Convenience store, convenience shop, or corner shop;
   (C)   Establishments that hold a Class A, B, C, D, or F liquor license;
   (D)   Exterior amusement and recreational uses such as go-cart tracks,
batting cages, water slides and the like;
   (E)   Home for the aged;
   (F)   Large community residences whether located more or less than 660 feet
from another community residence:
      (1)   The City Council finds that the cumulative effect of such use would
not alter the residential character of the neighborhood or, if not a
residential neighborhood, the general character of the neighborhood, would not
create an institutional setting or its operation would not create an adverse
effect on surrounding properties; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a special use permit is applied for and
received;
   (G)   Metal buildings subject to the following:
      (1)   Standalone primary structure metal buildings; and
      (2)   Accessory use metal buildings larger than 150 square feet on lots
less than three acres in size.
   (H)   Multi-family dwellings;
   (I)   Nursing homes;
   (J)   Outdoor restaurants/dining establishments;
   (K)   Planned unit developments;
   (L)   Small community residences located more or less than 660 feet from
another community residence:
      (1)   The City Council finds that the cumulative effect of such use would
not alter the residential character of the neighborhood, would not create an
institutional setting or its operation would not create an adverse effect on
surrounding properties; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a special use permit is applied for and
received;
   (M)   Used motor vehicle sales;
   (N)   Wholesale businesses, storage buildings, storage sheds and warehouses;
   (O)   Personal solar energy system (PSES);
   (P)   Solar farm energy system (SFES);
   (Q)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organizations; provided, they meet all
the requirements of
Chapter 123 (Adult-use cannabis); and
   (R)   Amusement and recreation: armory, assembly hall, bowling alley, dance
hall, pool and billiards, theater, skating rink or other social, sport or
recreation center operated as a business; provided, the building in which it is
operated is sufficiently sound-insulated to effectively confine the noise to
the premises;
   (S)   Event center provided they meet the requirements of §
162.401;
   (T)   Bar/tavern;
   (U)   Club/lodge;
   (V)   Multiple occupancy non-residential developments/uses;
   (W)   Bed and breakfast establishments;
   (X)   Mixed use residential developments/uses;
   (Y)   Accessory onsite outdoor dining/seating, food sales and/or
entertainment; and
   (Z)   Short-term rentals.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-63) (Ord. 4960, passed 6-15-1992; Ord. 5196, passed 1-3-
1994; Ord. 5548, passed 4-1-1996; Ord. 5831, passed 1-5-1998; Ord. 6075, passed
1-3-2000; Ord. 6131, passed 5-1-2000; Ord. 6264, passed 2-5-2000; Ord. 7174,
passed 8-18-2008; Ord. 8283-2018, passed 12-3-2018; Ord. 8404-2019, passed 12-
19-2019; Ord. 9055-2022, passed 5-16-2022; Ord. 9090-2022, passed 10-3-2022;
Ord. 9124- 2023, passed 2-6-2023; Ord. 9175-2023, passed 7-3-2023; Ord. 9182-
2023, passed 8-7-2023; Ord. 9203-2023, passed 10-16-2023; Ord. 9239-2024,
passed 1-2-2024; Ord. 9322-2024, passed 10-7-2024)
“C-5” PLANNED COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 162.290 PURPOSE.
   The “C-5” Planned Commercial District is established to:
   (A)   Facilitate the development of large tracts of land;
   (B)   Promote commercial development into comprehensively planned projects;
and
   (C)   Encourage innovative site layouts and coordinated architectural
treatment of commercial uses and structures.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-66)
§ 162.291 LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   The “C-5” Planned Commercial District is intended to afford both the
developer and the city considerable flexibility in formulating lot and building
requirements. All lot and building requirements must be reviewed and approved
as per §
162.293 of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-67)
§ 162.292 PERMITTED USES.
   All permitted uses identified in the “C-3” and “C-4” Zoning Districts.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-68)
§ 162.293 REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Every applicant for a Planned Commercial District approval shall
comply with the procedural requirements of this section.
   (B)   The required procedures are as follows:
      (1)   Filing development plan with the Administrator including the
specifying of permitted uses and required information as per §
162.292 of this chapter;
      (2)   Provision by the developer of adequate assurances for the
completion of required improvements as per the development plan;
      (3)   Review of the development plan by the City Plan Commission before
the public hearing;
      (4)   Public hearing by the Board of Appeals as per the requirement of §§
162.515 through 162.520 of this chapter;
      (5)   Recommendation by the Zoning Board of Appeals to the City Council
regarding approval/rejection of the development plan; and
      (6)   Action by City Council on the development plan.
   (C)   Upon approval by the City Council, the Development Plan shall be
recorded at the County Building. All development within the development area
shall be according to the Development Plan. Any changes in the development, as
determined by the Zoning Administrator, shall require review and approval by
the City Council.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-69)
LIGHT INDUSTRY DISTRICT
§ 162.305 PURPOSE.
   The Light Industry District is intended to provide for areas where light
industry and warehouses may locate without detriment to the remainder of the
community.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-71) (Ord. 7352, passed 2-16-2010)
§ 162.306 LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every principal building erected in a Light Industry District shall conform
to the applicable requirements indicated in tabular form below:
Maximum building height                     100 ft.
Maximum percentage of lot building coverage 75%
Minimum lot area                            None
Minimum lot depth                           None
Minimum lot width                           None
Minimum setbacks
   From front lot line                   25 ft.
   From side lot line                    25 ft.
   From rear lot line                    25 ft.
 
(1960 Code, § 60-6-72) (Ord. 7352, passed 2-16-2010)
§ 162.307 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Any building, use or service similar to the uses herein listed in the
type of services or goods sold, in the number of persons or cars to be
attracted to the premises or in the effect upon adjacent areas in more
restricted use districts;
   (B)   Commercial office;
   (C)   Call center;
   (D)   Foundry casting light-weight non-ferrous metal not causing noxious
fumes or odor;
   (E)   Machine shop, or other metal-working shop, excluding drop hammers and
other noise- producing machine-operated tools;
   (F)   Manufacture, compounding, assembly or treatment of articles or
merchandise from the following previously prepared materials: aluminum, bond,
cellophane, canvas, cloth, cork, feather, felt, fibre, fur, glass, hair, horn,
leather, paper, plastic, precious or semi-precious metals or stones, shell,
rubber, tin, tobacco, wood (excluding saw mill), tars and paint not involving a
boiling process;
   (G)   Manufacture, compounding, processing, packing or treatment of such
products as candy, cosmetics, drugs, perfumes, pharmaceuticals, toiletries and
food products, except the rendering or refining of fats and oils;
   (H)   Manufacture and maintenance of billboards and commercial advertising
structures;
   (I)   Manufacture of pottery and figurines or other similar ceramic
products, using only previously pulverized clay, kiln fired only by electricity
or gas;
   (J)   Planing mill;
   (K)   Stove or stove polish manufacturers;
   (L)   Wholesale business, non-accessory storage buildings, storage
buildings, warehouses and yards; and
   (M)   Any accessory use customarily incident to a use authorized by this
section.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-73) (Ord. 7787, passed 7-7-2014; Ord. 9240-2024, passed 1-2-
2024)
§ 162.308 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Convenience stores;
   (B)   Establishments that hold a Class A, B, C, D, or F liquor license;
   (C)   Industrial parks;
   (D)   Large community residences whether located more or less than 660 feet
from another community residence:
      (1)   The City Council finds that the cumulative effect of such use would
not alter the residential character of the neighborhood or, if not a
residential neighborhood, the general character of the neighborhood, would not
create an institutional setting or its operation would not create an adverse
effect on surrounding properties; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a special use permit is applied for and
received;
   (E)   Multi-family dwellings;
   (F)   Planned unit developments;
   (G)   Small community residences located more or less than 660 feet from
another community residence;
      (1)   The City Council finds that the cumulative effect of such use would
not alter the residential character of the neighborhood, would not create an
institutional setting or its operation would not create an adverse effect on
surrounding properties; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a special use permit is applied for and
received;
   (H)   Used car lots;
   (I)   Personal solar energy system (PSES);
   (J)   Solar farm energy system (SFES);
   (K)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organizations; provided, they meet all
the requirements of
Chapter 123 (Adult-use cannabis);
   (L)   Adult-use cannabis craft grower organizations; provided, they meet all
the requirements of
Chapter 123 (Adult-use cannabis);
   (M)   Adult-use cannabis infuser organizations; provided they meet all the
requirements of
Chapter 123 (Adult-use cannabis; and
   (N)   Multiple occupancy non-residential developments/uses.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-74) (Ord. 4094, passed - -; Ord. 4674, passed - -; Ord.
5831, passed 1-5-1998; Ord. 6075, passed 1-3-2000; Ord. 6131, passed 5-1-2000;
Ord. 6264, passed 2-5-2000; Ord. 8283-2018, passed 12-3-2018; Ord. 8404-2019,
passed 12-19-2019; Ord. 8405-2019, passed 12-19-2019; Ord. 8406-2019, passed
12-19-2019; Ord. 9055-2022, passed 5-16-2022; Ord. 9182-2023, passed 8-7-2023)
HEAVY INDUSTRY DISTRICT
§ 162.320 PURPOSE.
   The Heavy Industry District is the least restrictive zoning district in the
city. It is intended to provide for areas where heavy and other similar
industry may be located without detriment to the remainder of the community.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-80) (Ord. 7352, passed 2-16-2010)
§ 162.321 LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   All the requirements of the Heavy Industry District shall be the same as the
Light Industry District with the exception of permitted uses.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-81) (Ord. 7352, passed 2-16-2010)
§ 162.322 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Junk yards;
   (B)   All buildings and uses, except as limited and restricted in this
section and elsewhere in this chapter; provided that, such buildings and uses
conform to any other applicable statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations;
and
   (C)   Any use permitted in the Light Industry District.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-82) (Ord. 7352, passed 2-16-2010)
§ 162.323 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Convenience stores;
   (B)   Establishments that hold a Class A, B, C, D, or F liquor license;
   (C)   Industrial parks;
   (D)   Large community residences whether located more or less than 660 feet
from another community residence:
      (1)   The City Council finds that the cumulative effect of such use would
not alter the residential character of the neighborhood or, if not a
residential neighborhood, the general character of the neighborhood, would not
create an institutional setting, or its operation would not create an adverse
effect on surrounding properties; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a special permit is applied for and received;
   (E)   Multi-family dwellings;
   (F)   Planned unit developments;
   (G)   Small community residences located more or less than 660 feet from
another community residence;
      (1)   The City Council finds that the cumulative effect of such use would
not alter the residential character of the neighborhood, would not create an
institutional setting or its operation would not create an adverse effect on
surrounding properties; and
      (2)   Prior to occupancy, a special use permit is applied for and
received;
   (H)   Used car lots;
   (I)   Personal solar energy system (PSES);
   (J)   Solar farm energy system (SFES);
   (K)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organizations; provided, they meet all
the requirements of
Chapter 123 (Adult-use cannabis);
   (L)   Adult-use cannabis craft grower organizations; provided, they meet all
the requirements of
Chapter 123 (Adult-use cannabis);
   (M)   Adult-use cannabis infuser organizations; provided they meet all the
requirements of
Chapter 123 (Adult-use cannabis;
   (N)   Adult-use cannabis cultivation organizations; provided, they meet all
the requirements of
Chapter 123 (Adult-use cannabis); and
   (O)   Multiple occupancy non-residential developments/uses.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-83) (Ord. 4094, passed - -; Ord. 4674, passed - -; Ord.
5831, passed 1-5-1998; Ord. 6075, passed 1-3-2000; Ord. 6131, passed 5-1-2000;
Ord. 6264, passed 2-5-2000; Ord. 8283-2018, passed 12-3-2018; Ord. 8404-2019,
passed 12-19-2019; Ord. 8405-2019, passed 12-19-2019; Ord. 8406-2019, passed
12-19-2019; Ord. 8409-2019, passed 12-19-2019; Ord. 9055-2022, passed 5-16-
2022; Ord. 9182-2023, passed 8-7-2023)
FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT
§ 162.335 “FP” FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   The “FP” Floodplain Overlay District delineates areas subject to
periodic flooding in the city. In the absence of flood protection measures,
these areas are subject to periodic flooding which may result in injury to or
loss of life or property, disruption of private and governmental services,
impairment of the municipal tax base and the need for extraordinary relief
measures.
   (B)   The regulations of this section are intended to restrict permitted
development in floodplains to:
      (1)   Uses which inherently have low flood damage potential; and
      (2)   Other uses allowed in the primary zoning districts provided
appropriate protective measures have been taken.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-85)
§ 162.336 PERMITTED USES, SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   This overlay district has no effect on the classification, whether
permitted, special or prohibited, of uses in the primary zoning districts.
   (B)   Rather, this overlay district imposes additional restrictions on both
permitted and special uses.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-86)
§ 162.337 ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   All uses, whether permitted or special, that are located in the area
covered by the “FP” Overlay District shall not only meet all the applicable
requirements of the primary district, but shall also be adequately protected
against flood damage.
   (B)   To assure such protection, the Administrator, following consultation
with technically qualified persons, may require as necessary:
      (1)   Anchorage or addition of weight to structures to resist flotation;
      (2)   Installation of water-tight doors and bulkheads;
      (3)   Use of special paints, membranes or mortars so as to reduce seepage
through walls;
      (4)   Installation of pumps to lower water levels in structures or to
relieve external foundation wall flood pressure;
      (5)   Reinforcement of walls to resist rupture or collapse caused by
water pressure or floating debris;
      (6)   Installation of valves or controls on sanitary and storm drains so
that the drains can be closed to prevent backup of sewage or storm run-off into
structures;
      (7)   Location of electrical equipment and appliances above the level of
the regulatory flood elevation;
      (8)   Location of storage facilities for chemicals, explosives, flammable
liquids, toxic substances and the like above the regulatory flood elevation;
      (9)   Filling and earth-moving to raise the level of the proposed
building site above the regulatory flood elevation; and/or
      (10)   Any other reasonable flood protection measures.
   (C)   In no case shall the Administrator approve any proposed flood
protection measure which would result in an increase in the volume or velocity
of flood water leaving the lot in question.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-87)
HISTORIC DISTRICT
§ 162.350 “HP” HISTORIC PRESERVATION OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   The “HP” Historic Preservation Overlay District is intended to preserve and
protect the historically or architecturally worthy buildings, structures,
sites, monuments and neighborhoods.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-89)
§ 162.351 PERMITTED USES, SPECIAL USES.
   This overlay district has no effect on the classification, whether
permitted, special or prohibited, of uses in the primary zoning districts.
Rather, this overlay district imposes additional restrictions on both permitted
and special uses.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-90)
§ 162.352 ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS.
   All uses, whether permitted or special, that are located in the area covered
by the “HP” Overlay District shall not only meet all the applicable
requirements of the primary district, but shall also meet the requirements set
forth herein.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-91)
§ 162.353 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Historic District is to promote the educational,
cultural, economic and general welfare of the community by providing for
preservation and continued utilization of areas, places, buildings, structures
and other objects having special historical, community or aesthetic interest
value.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-92)
§ 162.354 RELATIONSHIP TO ZONING DISTRICTS.
   The Historic District regulations as provided herein for areas within said
districts are intended to preserve and protect the historically or
architecturally worthy buildings, structures, sites, monuments, streetscapes,
squares and neighborhoods of the areas designated. In all zoning districts
lying within the boundaries of a Historic District, the regulations for both
the zoning district and the Historic District shall apply.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-93) (Ord. 3256, passed 10-22-1974; Ord. 9102-2022, passed
12-5-2022)
§ 162.355 BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of a Historic District shall be established by the City
Council, and shall be indicated on the official zoning map of the city.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-94) (Ord. 9102-2022, passed 12-5-2022)
§ 162.356 DESIGNATION.
   (A)   No area shall be designated as part of the Historic District until
there shall have been due notice given to persons owning property therein, and
a public hearing held on the merits of such designation. The Historic
Preservation Commission may, on its own motion or upon petition, conduct a
preliminary and informal investigation of areas within the city considered to
have buildings, structures, areas, places or other objects having special
historical, community or aesthetic interest or value. The Economic Development,
Planning & Zoning Department, on behalf of the Commission, shall establish
preliminary boundaries for areas considered to have such interest or value, and
set a time and place for a public hearing on the merits of designating the
defined area as a Historic District. The Economic Development, Planning &
Zoning Department, on behalf of the Commission shall then cause notice to be
sent to all owners of record of property within the defined area not less than
15 days, nor more than 30 days, prior to the date of hearing. The notice shall
set forth the boundaries of the area under consideration, the reasons it is
being considered for designation as a Historic District, a statement that use
of the property will be restricted if it is included in the Historic District,
and the date, time and place of the public hearing. Notice of such hearing
shall also be given to the Director of Economic Development, Planning & Zoning
Department, the Building Commissioner, the Chairperson of the City Plan
Commission, the Chairperson of the Zoning Board of Appeals, the City Attorney,
the City Engineer, each of the Aldermen and the Mayor as well as to any
interested parties who shall file with the Secretary of the Historic
Preservation Commission a request to receive such notices. A copy of the notice
shall be mailed to each tenant of property within the proposed district in
cases where the Commission has reason to believe the occupant of property is
not the owner of record of the property.
   (B)   The hearings shall be conducted by the Historic Preservation
Commission, and all interested persons shall be given the opportunity to be
heard, in person, by counsel or by correspondence. The Commission shall make
such record or notes of the hearing as the Chairperson shall deem sufficient.
After hearing testimony, the Commission shall make its recommendations to the
City Council if it finds that all or any part of the area described in the
hearing notice meets the criteria of the Historic District. The City Council
shall, within 30 days of receiving the recommendations of the Historic
Preservation Commission, either accept or reject the recommendations. If the
recommendations are accepted, the Council shall, by ordinance, establish the
boundaries of the District and make it subject to the provisions of this
section.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-95) (Ord. 9102-2022, passed 12-5-2022)
§ 162.357 ACTS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to demolish, move or substantially change the exterior
appearance of any building within the Historic District without having first
obtained approval of a Design Review Request for such action, and said approval
is required in addition to the building permit required by
Ch. 150 of this code of ordinances. A Design Review Request shall not be
necessary if the demolition, move, or substantial change is necessary because
the building is structurally unsafe, damaged, dilapidated, dangerous to the
neighborhood and beyond reasonable repair as determined by the Building
Commissioner. Building Commissioner shall advise the Historic Preservation
Commission of said action prior to commencement of activity. Building
Commissioner must also determine that the condition of building is not
attributable to the owner.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-96) (Ord. 5370, passed 1-17-1995; Ord. 8370-2019, passed 9-
17-2019; Ord. 9102-2022, passed 12-5-2022) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.358 DESIGN REVIEW REQUEST REQUIRED.
   A Design Review Request issued after approval by the Historic Preservation
Commission. shall be required before a permit is issued for any of the
following:
   (A)   Demolition of a building or structure within the Historic District;
   (B)   Moving a building or structure out of, into or within the Historic
District;
   (C)   Material change in the exterior appearance of existing buildings or
structures within the Historic District by additions, reconstruction or
alteration, if subject to public view from a public street or sidewalk at any
time during the year;
   (D)   Any new construction within the Historic District subject to public
view from a public street or sidewalk at any time during the year;
   (E)   Demolition, construction or material change of any street, sidewalk,
fence, wall, sign or ornamentation within the Historic District, if subject to
public view from a public street or sidewalk at any time during the year; and
   (F)   A Design Review Request shall not be necessary if the demolition,
move, or substantial change is necessary because the building is structurally
unsafe, damaged, dilapidated, dangerous to the neighborhood and beyond
reasonable repair as determined by the Building Commissioner. Building
Commissioner shall advise the Historic Preservation Commission of said action
prior to commencement of activity. Building Commissioner must also determine
that the condition of building is not attributable to the owner.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-97) (Ord. 5370, passed 1-17-1995; Ord. 8370-2019, passed 9-
17-2019; Ord. 9102-2022, passed 12-5-2022)
§ 162.359 APPLICATION FOR DESIGN REVIEW REQUEST.
   (A)   All applications for a design review request shall be made to the
Economic Development, Planning & Zoning Department, on forms to be provided by
the department. Detailed drawings, plans or specifications shall not be
required, but each application shall be accompanied by such sketches, drawings,
photographs, descriptions or other information showing the proposed exterior
alterations, additions, changes or new construction as are reasonably required
by the Historic Preservation Commission to make a decision. No fee shall be
required for application for a Design Review Request.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner shall review all applications for building
permit, and if any building permit application is received for work to be done
on property within a Historic District and no application for Design Review
Request is submitted, the Building Commissioner shall defer any action on the
application for building permit, and notify the applicant that an application
for Design Review Request should be submitted. No building permit shall be
issued for work to be done within a Historic District unless a Design Review
Request has been approved for the same work.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-98) (Ord. 5370, passed 1-17-1995; Ord. 9102-2022, passed 12-
5-2022)
§ 162.360 ACTION ON APPLICATION.
   (A)   The Economic Development, Planning & Zoning Department shall transmit
all applications for Design Review Request to the members of the Historic
Preservation Commission prior to the next scheduled meeting of the Commission.
Notice of the meeting shall be given to the applicant, and the Aldermen
representing the ward in which the property is located and any interested
parties who shall file with the Secretary of the Historic Preservation
Commission a request to receive such notices. The Chairperson shall conduct the
meeting, and the Commission shall receive oral or written testimony from all
interested persons.
   (B)   The applicant or any other party may be represented by counsel. The
Secretary shall make such record or notes of the meeting as the Chairperson
shall deem sufficient. The Historic Preservation Commission shall, approve the
application as submitted, approve the application with conditions with respect
to the appropriateness of design, arrangement. texture, material, location or
other elements of appearance of the building or structure involved, request
that the applicant revise and resubmit the application with recommendations to
the applicant with respect to the appropriateness of design, arrangement,
texture, material, location or other elements of appearance of the building or
structure involved, or deny the application. In case of denial, the applicant
may, within 30 days after denial of the application, file a formal appeal with
City Council. The City Council shall then determine if the application shall be
approved as submitted, approved with conditions with respect to the
appropriateness of design, arrangement, texture, material, location or other
elements of appearance of the building or structure involved, request that the
applicant revise and resubmit the application with recommendations to the
applicant with respect to the appropriateness of design, arrangement, texture,
material, location or other elements of appearance of the building or structure
involved, or denied. If the appeal is denied, the Commission shall not again
hear the subject matter of any application which has been denied for a period
of one year, except in cases where an applicant appears within 90 days with
amended application, as provided above.
   (C)   The Economic Development, Planning & Zoning Department may
administratively approve a Design Review Request application if the proposed
materials match the existing materials and there are no alterations to design
of the property, excluding windows and tuckpointing.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-99) (Ord. 9102-2022, passed 12-5-2022)
§ 162.361 MATTERS TO BE CONSIDERED.
   (A)   The Historic Preservation Commission shall not consider interior
arrangement or features not subject to any public view from a public street or
sidewalk at any time during the year, and shall not make any requirements,
except for the purpose of preventing developments incongruous to the aesthetic
and historic aspects of the surroundings.
   (B)   The Commission shall consider the following in passing on the
appropriateness of exterior architectural features:
      (1)   All exterior architectural features, which are subject to public
view from a public street or sidewalk at any time during the year, including
any signs, fences, outbuildings, paving and substantial grading of soil levels;
      (2)   General design and arrangement;
      (3)   Texture and material;
      (4)   The relation of the factors in divisions (B)(1), (B)(2) and (B)(3)
above to similar features of buildings and structures in the immediate
surroundings;
      (5)   The extent to which the building or structure would be harmonious
with or incongruous to the aesthetic, cultural or historic nature of the
surroundings;
      (6)   The extent to which the building or structure will promote the
general welfare of the city and its citizens; and
      (7)   The Historic Preservation Design Guidelines/Policies & Procedures
Manual and amendment(s).
(1960 Code, § 60-6-100) (Ord. 5327, passed 10-3-1994; Ord. 5370, passed 1-17-
1995; Ord. 6445, passed 7-15-2002; Ord. 9102-2022, passed 12-5-2022; Ord. 9238-
2024, passed 1-2-2024)
“AGR” AGRICULTURAL/RURAL DISTRICT
§ 162.375 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The “AGR” Agricultural/Rural District is established to protect
predominately agricultural land from intense and disorderly development.
   (B)   Territory located on the periphery of the corporate limits is
generally agricultural/undeveloped or sparsely developed. As such areas are
annexed to the city, it is the intent of this district to preserve and maintain
the present land uses until such time that proper infrastructure can be
extended to adequately serve such property to accommodate orderly development.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-101)
§ 162.376 LOT AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   Every principal building erected in any “AGR” District shall conform to the
applicable requirements as outlined as follows:
Maximum building height 35 ft.*
Minimum lot area        10 acres
Minimum lot depth       500 ft.
Minimum lot width       400 ft. (at established building line)
Minimum setbacks
   From front lot lin25 ft.
   From side lot line25 ft.
   From rear lot line50 ft.
NOTES TO TABLE:
* Except silos, barns and farm-related structures
 
(1960 Code, § 60-6-102)
§ 162.377 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Accessory buildings, land uses and activities customarily associated
with any of the above uses;
   (B)   Agricultural and farming related uses, including the production of
crops and/or livestock; livestock shall not be penned within 200 feet of a
residential district;
   (C)   Cemeteries/mausoleums;
   (D)   Detached single-family residences; one by right, plus one for each
additional 40 acres;
   (E)   Essential governmental or public utility services;
   (F)   Farm implement dealers; however, not assembly type uses;
   (G)   Hunting and fishing and game preserves;
   (H)   Nurseries, commercial greenhouses and related uses;
   (I)   Open air non-commercial recreational uses including parks and
playgrounds;
   (J)   Radio and transmission towers; provided that, such facilities comply
with all applicable clear zones as established by FAA; and
   (K)   Sale of farm produce which is produced on the premises.
(1960 Code, § 60-6-103)
§ 162.378 SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Animal hospitals and veterinary offices;
   (B)   Bed and breakfast establishments;
   (C)   Churches and other places of worship;
   (D)   Commercial kennels and stables;
   (E)   Commercial recreational and amusement facilities;
   (F)   Country clubs and golf courses;
   (G)   Hospitals, nursing homes and the like;
   (H)   Livestock depots and sales yards;
   (I)   Schools and other educational facilities be it public or private;
   (J)   Personal solar energy system (PSES); and
   (K)   Solar farm energy system (SFES).
(1960 Code, § 60-6-104) (Ord. 5314, passed 9-19-1994; Ord. 8283-2018, passed
12-3-2018)
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS FOR SPECIFIC USES
§ 162.390 APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter establishes lot and structure requirements, design standards
and use limitations for specific, potentially troublesome structures and uses.
These regulations apply in every zoning district where the specific structure
or use is permitted or allowed by special use permit; but, if more stringent
regulations are applicable in any particular district, such regulations shall
prevail.
(1960 Code, § 60-7-1)
§ 162.391 DRIVE-IN THEATERS.
   (A)   The movie screen of every drive-in theater shall be located at least
100 feet from all street right-of-way lines and all lot lines, and at least 500
feet from the boundary of any residential district. The projection surface of
the movie screen shall not be visible from any major traffic street.
   (B)   Speakers shall be limited to the type designed to be heard by the
occupants of one car only.
   (C)   Entrances and exits shall connect only to major traffic streets and
shall not be located closer than 100 feet to any intersection of public
streets.
   (D)   Stacking (waiting) area for at least 25 automobiles shall be provided
near the main entrance to prevent traffic tie-ups on adjacent streets.
(1960 Code, § 60-7-2) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.392 FENCES, WALLS.
   (A)   No barbed wire or electrically-charged fence below eight feet in
height shall be erected or maintained anywhere in the city.
   (B)   No fence, wall or other obstruction shall be erected within any public
right-of-way, except by written permission of the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   No fence, wall or other obstruction shall be erected in violation of
the Illinois Drainage Code, (70 ILCS 605/2-1).
   (D)   Every fence, wall or other obstruction shall conform to the special
height restrictions applicable in areas near intersections. (See §
162.033 of this chapter.)
   (E)   Whenever the rear property line of any “C-2”, “C-3”, “C-4”, “C-5”, “D-
1” and “D-2” (commercial or industrial) use abuts a residentially zoned
district, a six-foot high privacy fence along the abutting property shall be
required.
   (F)   Notwithstanding any provision in this section, no fence in the city
shall be more than six feet in height. In the event that one wishes to erect a
fence greater than six feet in height, such person shall present an application
for a variance with the city.
(1960 Code, § 60-7-3) (Ord. 5625, passed 9-16-1996) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.393 GREENHOUSES, NURSERIES.
   (A)   No fertilizer, compost, manure or other odor-or-dust-producing
substance shall be stored closer than 100 feet to any lot line.
   (B)   Greenhouse heating plants shall be situated in an enclosed structure,
and shall not be closer than 50 feet to any lot line.
(1960 Code, § 60-7-4) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.394 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The conduct of certain types of business activity
in residential units may be permitted under provisions of this section. It is,
therefore, the intent of this section to:
      (1)   Ensure the compatibility of home occupations with other uses
permitted in the residential districts;
      (2)   Maintain and preserve the character of residential neighborhoods;
and
      (3)   Promote the efficient use of public services and facilities by
assuring these services are provided to the residential population for which
they were planned and constructed, rather than commercial uses.
   (B)   Definition. A HOME OCCUPATION means an accessory use of a dwelling
unit for gainful employment which is:
      (1)   Clearly incidental and subordinate to the use of the dwelling unit
as a residence;
      (2)   Carried on solely within the main dwelling and does not alter or
change the exterior character or appearances of the dwelling;
      (3)   Located in a residential zoned district;
      (4)   Is conducted clearly as a secondary use of the premises with no
exterior evidence of a business being conducted from the premises; and
      (5)   Is conducted solely by the occupants of the dwelling unit.
   (C)   Permitted home occupations. The following uses shall generally be
considered as allowable home occupations; provided, the requirements as set
forth are in compliance:
      (1)   Dressmakers, seamstresses, tailors;
      (2)   Teachers/tutoring; provided that, instructions shall be limited to
five students at a time;
      (3)   Artists, sculptors, authors and composers;
      (4)   Home crafts for sale off premises;
      (5)   Office facilities for architects, engineers, lawyers, realtors,
insurance agents, brokers and members of similar professions;
      (6)   Office facility for a salesperson, sales representative or
manufacturer’s representative provided that no transactions are made in person
on the premises;
      (7)   Telephone solicitation and answering service;
      (8)   Computer programming, typing and word processing services;
      (9)   Radio, television, phonograph and small appliance repair;
      (10)   Day care for up to three children; and
      (11)   Mail order business; provided, no merchandise shall be displayed
on the premises.
   (D)   Prohibited home occupations.
      (1)   The following uses shall be generally prohibited as home
occupations:
         (a)   Barber shops and beauty parlors;
         (b)   Animal hospitals and veterinary uses (including care, grooming
or boarding);
         (c)   Funeral homes and mortuaries;
         (d)   Restaurants and cafés;
         (e)   Stables or kennels;
         (f)   Vehicle repair or maintenance for other than the personal
convenience of and any vehicles owned or leased by the occupants;
         (g)   Antique stores and furniture sales;
         (h)   General contracting, carpentry, masonry, plumbing, painting or
other related work;
         (i)   Medical or dental office and laboratory; and
         (j)   Retail sales of any type directly from the premises.
      (2)   Those uses that are generally considered as prohibited as home
occupations may be permitted only as a variance authorized in accordance with
provisions of §
162.026 of this chapter.
   (E)   General provisions/performance criteria. Any business use within a
dwelling unit in a residential zoned district shall be permitted by right;
provided, the following criteria are fully complied with.
      (1)   The use shall be conducted entirely within a dwelling and shall be
clearly incidental to the use of the structure as a dwelling.
      (2)   The home occupation is to be conducted only by members of the
immediate family residing in the dwelling unit, and no others may be employed.
      (3)   There shall be no storage of equipment, vehicles or supplied
associated with the home occupation outside the dwelling or accessory building
on the premises.
      (4)   There shall be no display of products visible in any manner from
outside of the dwelling unit.
      (5)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the dwelling
or premises or any visible evidence of the conduct of a home occupation.
      (6)   The total area used for a home occupation shall not exceed 25% of
the gross floor area of the dwelling or 300 square feet whichever is less.
      (7)   A home occupation shall not create greater vehicle or pedestrian
traffic than normal for the district in which it is located.
      (8)   A home occupation shall have adequate parking spaces available to
compensate for additional parking needs generated.
      (9)   No equipment or process shall be used in a home occupation which
creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes or odor detectable to the normal senses
off the property.
      (10)   There shall be no advertising, display or other indications of a
home occupation on the premises besides one flush-mounted sign, not over two
square feet in area. The sign may only show the name of occupant and type of
occupation. The sign shall not be illuminated.
      (11)   There shall not be conducted on the premises the business of
selling stocks of merchandise, supplied or products, provided that orders
previously made by telephone or at a sales party may be filled on the premises.
That is, direct sales of products off display shelves or racks is not allowed,
but a person may pick up an order placed earlier as described above.
   (F)   Application requirements. An application for a home occupation permit
shall be made to the Building and Zoning Office on forms provided by the
Department which shall be completed and accompanied by appropriate fee as
established by resolution of the City Council. The Department will render a
decision and notify the applicant in writing within 15 calendar days of the
date the application was received. In cases where the Department considers the
application not within the scope of the home occupation criteria, the
application shall be denied.
   (G)   Appeals. The decision of the Department concerning approval or
revocation shall be final unless a written appeal is filed with the Zoning
Board of Appeals in accordance with provisions of §§
162.550 through 162.555 of this chapter.
   (H)   Inspections. Home occupation applicants shall permit a reasonable
inspection of the premises by the Department to determine compliance with this
chapter. Any home occupation that is found to be in non-compliance with
provisions of this chapter shall be advised and permit be revoked.
(1960 Code, § 60-7-5) (Ord. 5326, passed 10-3-1994) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.395 HOSPITALS, NURSING HOMES.
   (A)   The lot on which any hospital or sanitarium is situated shall have a
minimum width and depth of 200 feet and a minimum area of five acres.
   (B)   The lot on which any nursing home is situated shall have a minimum
width and depth of 200 feet, and a minimum area of two acres.
   (C)   The principal building of any hospital, sanitarium or nursing home
shall be located at least 25 feet from all lot lines.
(1960 Code, § 60-7-6) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.396 JUNK YARDS.
   (A)   No part of any junk yard, which includes any lot on which three or
more inoperable vehicles are stored, shall be located closer than 500 feet to
the boundary of any residential district.
   (B)   All vehicles, parts and equipment shall be stored within a completely
enclosed structure or within an area screened by a wall, solid fence or
closely-planted shrubbery at least ten feet high and of sufficient density to
block the view from adjacent property.
(1960 Code, § 60-7-7) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.397 KENNELS.
   (A)   The lot on which any kennel is situated shall have a minimum area of
three acres.
   (B)   Every kennel shall be located at least 200 feet from the nearest
dwelling, and at least 100 feet from any lot line.
(1960 Code, § 60-7-8) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.398 SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   No swimming pool, whether public or private, shall be located in any
front yard.
   (B)   Every swimming pool that is more than two feet deep shall be enclosed
by a wall or fence at least four feet in height. The passage through such wall
or fence shall be equipped with a gate.
(1960 Code, § 60-7-9) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.399 STORM WATER MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation or other entity proposing to construct
buildings or develop land within the jurisdiction of the city shall prepare,
for approval by the City Engineer, a Storm Water Management Plan that described
the manner in which erosion, sediment and run-off resulting from the
development will be controlled and managed. No building or construction permits
or plat approval shall be issued by the city until the Storm Water Management
Plan has been approved by the City Engineer as meeting the requirements of this
section, or the requirement for such Storm Water Management Plan has been
waived by the City Engineer. Downstream property owners, watercourses, channels
or conduits shall not receive storm water run-off from proposed upstream
developments at a higher peak flow rate than would have resulted from the same
storm event occurring over the site of the proposed development with the land
in its natural, undeveloped conditions, nor shall storm water run-off exceed
the capacity of the natural drainage system.
   (B)   Storm water run-off resulting from a proposed development shall be
detained on-site:
      (1)   By wet or dry bottom reservoirs;
      (2)   By underground reservoirs;
      (3)   On flat roofs, parking lots or streets; or
      (4)   By other detention methods approved by the City Engineer.
   (C)   For purposes of designing adequate on-site detention facilities, the
Illinois State Water Survey rainfall data for this region shall be used.
   (D)   (1)   Detention basins. Basins may be constructed to temporarily
detain the storm water run-off so that the rate at which it is released is the
same rate as before development. The following features shall be incorporated
into the design of any detention basin.
         (a)   Storage volume. The volume of storage provided shall be
sufficient to store flows both during and immediately after the maximum storm
event which can be expected to occur once every ten and 100 years.
         (b)   Outlet control works.
            1.   Outlet works shall be designed to limit peak outflow rates
from detention storage areas to or below peak flow rates that would have
occurred prior to the proposed development.
            2.   Outlet works shall not include any mechanical components or
devices and shall function without requiring attendance or control during
operation.
         (c)   Spillway. Emergency spillways shall be provided to permit the
safe passage of run-off generated from a 100-year storm.
         (d)   Maximum depth. The maximum planned depth of storm waters stored
shall not normally exceed four feet.
         (e)   Side slopes. The maximum side slopes for grassed basins shall
not exceed one foot vertical for two feet horizontal (2:1 slope) for basins
less than or equal to four feet deep; for basins greater than four feet deep
the maximum side slope shall not exceed 3:1.
         (f)   Limits of ponding. In no case shall the limits of maximum
ponding be closer than 30 feet horizontally from any building and less than two
feet vertically below the lowest sill elevation.
         (g)   Interior drainage. The basin bottom should be designed to drain
expeditiously. If the bottom is to be grass, it should have a minimum slope of
1%.
         (h)   Low flow channel. Small flows through the detention basin should
be handled by paved ditches from inflow structure to outflow structure to
minimize erosion.
         (i)   Multipurpose basins. If the detention basin is to have other
uses, the design of the basin bottom should include underdrains to expedite
drying of the bottom between run-off events.
         (j)   Aesthetics. Designs should result in aesthetically pleasing
configurations which will enhance public acceptability.
      (2)   Detention ponds. Detention ponds may also be used to temporarily
detain the differential run-off from the development. In addition to the
general design features enumerated above for detention basins, the following
features should also be incorporated into the design of any detention pond.
         (a)   Normal pool depth. In order to minimize weed growth, the normal
pool depth should be four feet minimum.
         (b)   Depth for fish. If fish are to be kept in the pond, at least
one-quarter of the area of the permanent pool should have a minimum depth of
ten feet.
         (c)   Facilities for emptying. In order to ease cleaning of the pond
or shoreline maintenance, the pond design should include provisions for
emptying the pond.
         (d)   Low flow by pass. The design of any pond may include a low flow
by-pass channel or pipeline to divert run-off that can be accommodated by
downstream drainageways.
         (e)   Bank stabilization. In order to minimize the effects of waves or
ice, some type of bank stabilization such as rip-rap or concrete should be
placed along the normal pool shoreline.
         (f)   Side slopes below normal pool. The side slopes below the normal
pool elevation may exceed the maximum side slope permitted above normal pool.
The design shall, however, include provisions for a safety ledge having a depth
of water not greater than three feet immediately adjacent to the shoreline.
      (3)   Rooftop storage. Detention storage may be met in total or in part
by detention on roofs. Details of such design, which shall be included in the
building permit application, shall include the depth and volume of storage,
details of outlet devices and downdrains, elevations of overflow scuppers,
design loadings for the roof structure and emergency overflow provisions.
Direct connection of roof drains to sanitary sewers is prohibited.
      (4)   Parking lot storage. Paved parking lots may be designed to provide
temporary detention storage of storm water on all or a portion of their
surfaces. Outlets will be designed so as to slowly empty the stored waters and
depths of storage must be limited so as to prevent damage to parked vehicles.
      (5)   Other detention methods. All or a portion of the detention storage
may also be provided in underground or surface detention facilities, to include
basins, tanks or swales and the like.
   (E)   Designs of detention facilities shall incorporate safety features,
particularly at outlets, on steep slopes and at any attractive nuisances to
include, as necessary, fencing, hand rails, lighting, steps, grills, signs and
other protective or warning devices so as to restrict access during critical
periods and to afford some measure of safety to both authorized and
unauthorized persons.
   (F)   The provisions of this section shall be applicable in the following
areas:
      (1)   Any residential development having a gross aggregate of five acres
or more;
      (2)   Any residential development of less than five acres with a 50%
impervious surface including roads, building, utility right-of-way and other
improvements; or
      (3)   Any commercial, industrial, institutional or utility development
having a gross aggregate area of one acre or more.
   (G)   The storm water detention facilities must be built in conjunction with
the storm water installation and be fully operational after the clearing of
vegetation.
      (1)   Silt and debris connected with early construction shall be removed
periodically from the detention area to maintain full storage capacity.
      (2)   The maintenance responsibility of the detention area shall remain
with the developer and/or contractor until final inspection and applicable
escrows are released.
      (3)   Before a certificate of occupancy is issued, the developer shall
submit his or her commitment for future maintenance responsibility of the
detention area.
   (H)   When applicable, the provisions of this section shall be reviewed by
the City Engineer to assure compliance.
(1960 Code, § 60-7-10) (Ord. 4632, passed 6-5-1989) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.400 OUTDOOR RESTAURANTS AND DINING ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Outdoor restaurants and dining establishments as defined shall be
permitted as a special use in the zoning districts as specified.
   (B)   The following regulations and requirements must be complied with
before a business license as required by the city can be issued.
      (1)   Tables and seating shall be portable and must be secured at the end
of each business day. The outdoor seating area shall be permitted only during
the normal hours of operation of the restaurant.
      (2)   Placement of tables, seating and equipment shall be restricted to
the front of the business and contiguous property and shall not obstruct or
impede pedestrian traffic. An unobstructed walkway in conformance with the U.S.
Access Board’s Public Right-of-Way Accessibility Guidelines shall be maintained
at all times.
      (3)   No signs or other graphics shall be displayed other than what is
permitted under the
Ch. 155 of this code of ordinances; provided, however, this division (B)(3)
shall not apply to table umbrellas containing graphics.
      (4)   The outside installation and use of a television and/or other video
equipment shall be permitted only with the prior written approval of the Zoning
Administrator.
      (5)   The outside installation and use of floral or other temporary
decorative pieces on city property shall be permitted only with the prior
written approval of the Zoning Administrator.
      (6)   Provisions shall be made for adequate litter and trash control
including providing for and maintaining of trash receptacles. The outdoor
seating area shall be kept clean and free of debris at all times.
      (7)   The seating shall not obstruct any entryway or exit of the building
or adjacent building(s).
      (8)   Alcoholic beverages shall only be permitted to be served or
consumed in the designated outdoor seating area in accordance with the outdoor
areas provisions in §
121.12(B) of this code of ordinances.
      (9)   The business shall maintain liability insurance in the required
amounts naming the city as co-insured.
      (10)   All pertinent permits and licenses as required by the city, county
and state have been secured for the operation.
(1960 Code, § 60-7-11) (Ord. 7697, passed 7-15-2013; Ord. 7967-2016, passed 7-
5-2016) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.401 EVENT CENTERS.
   (A)   Facility shall not be located within one mile from the property line
of a pre-existing event space. (Distances shall be measured linearly and shall
be the shortest distance between the closest points of the property lines.)
   (B)   Space. The facility must be a freestanding standalone building without
any other uses.
   (C)   No more than 12 event centers shall be allowed to operate within the
city at any given time.
(Ord. 9175-2023, passed 7-3-2023)
§ 162.402 SHORT-TERM RENTALS.
   (A)   The dwelling must be licensed with the city as a short-term rental,
with inspection of the property by the city prior to license approval and
annual renewal.
   (B)   The maximum length of stay per registered party shall be less than 30
consecutive days.
   (C)   The entire dwelling shall be rented in the name of one individual, who
represents the entire family or group renting the dwelling during the reserved
time period.
   (D)   No exterior or interior sign intended to be seen by the public shall
be permitted.
(Ord. 9322-2024, passed 10-7-2024)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
§ 162.415 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide specific regulations for
the placement, construction and modification of telecommunications facilities.
The provisions of this subchapter are not intended and shall not be interpreted
to prohibit or to have the affect of prohibiting the provision of personal
wireless services, nor shall the provisions of this subchapter be applied in
such a manner to unreasonably discriminate between providers of functionally
equivalent personal wireless services.
   (B)   The goals of this subchapter are:
      (1)   To enhance the ability to provide telecommunications services to
the city;
      (2)   To encourage the location of towers in non-residential areas;
      (3)   Minimize the total number of towers in the city;
      (4)   Encourage the joint use of new and existing tower sites; and
      (5)   Encourage users of towers to locate and configure them in a way
that minimizes adverse visual impact.
   (C)   Accordingly, the City Council finds that the promulgation of this
subchapter is warranted and necessary:
      (1)   To accommodate the growing need for communications facilities;
      (2)   To manage the location of communications facilities in the city;
      (3)   To promote and encourage shared use co-location of existing and new
communications towers as a primary option rather than construction of
additional single-use towers, and to reduce the number of such structures
needed in the future;
      (4)   To protect residential areas and land uses from potential adverse
impacts of communications towers, including support structure failure and
falling ice; and
      (5)   To minimize adverse visual impacts of communications facilities
through careful design, siting, landscape screening, and innovative
camouflaging techniques.
(1960 Code, § 60-7-31) (Ord. 6132, passed 5-1-2000)
§ 162.416 TECHNICAL CONSULTATION.
   Should the need arise where professional technical consultation is
necessary, the Planning Director is authorized, at his or her discretion, to
employ on behalf of the city an independent technical expert to review any
technical materials submitted including, but not limited to, those required
under this subchapter and in those cases where a technical demonstration of
unavoidable need or unavailability of alternatives is required. The applicant
shall pay all the costs of said review, including any administrative costs
incurred by the city. To protect the applicant, any proprietary information
disclosed to the city, or to the expert hired, shall remain confidential and
shall not be disclosed to any third party.
(1960 Code, § 60-7-32) (Ord. 6132, passed 5-1-2000)
§ 162.417 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTENNA. Any exterior apparatus designed for telephonic, radio or television
communications through the sending and/or receiving of electromagnetic waves;
an antenna attached to a principal building for the purpose of providing
wireless telecommunications waves; an antenna attached to a principal building
for the purpose of providing wireless telecommunications services, utilizing
frequencies authorized by the Federal Communications Commission for “cellular”,
“enhanced special mobile radio” and “personal communications systems”
telecommunications services, and its attendant base station.
   ANTENNA HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the base of the antenna
support structure at grade to the highest point of the structure even if said
highest point is an antenna. Measurement of communications tower height shall
include antenna, base pad and other appurtenances and shall be measured from
finish grade to the top of the antenna. If the support structure is on a sloped
grade, then the average between the highest and lowest grades shall be used in
calculating the antenna height.
   ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Any pole, telescoping mast, tower, tripod,
building or other structure which supports a device used in the transmitting or
receiving of radio frequency energy.
   FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   GOVERNING AUTHORITY. The Mayor and City Council of the City of Belleville,
Illinois.
   PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE and PERSONAL WIRELESS FACILITIES. Defined in the
same manner as in 47 U.S.C. § 332(c)(7)(C), as amended now or in the future.
   SATELLITE RECEIVING DISH. A generally dish-shaped signal-receiving device,
the purpose of which is to receive communications or other signals from
satellites in earth orbit and other extra- terrestrial sources.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. A facility that transmits and/or receives
electromagnetic signals. It includes antennas, microwave dishes, horns and
other types of equipment for the transmission and receipt of such signals,
telecommunication towers or similar structures supporting said equipment,
equipment buildings, parking area and other accessory development.
   TOWER.
      (1)   Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the
purpose of supporting one or more antennas, including self-supporting lattice
towers, guy towers or monopole towers.
      (2)   The term includes radio and television transmission towers,
microwave towers, common-carrier towers, cellular telephone towers, alternative
towers structures and the like.
(1960 Code, § 60-7-33) (Ord. 6132, passed 5-1-2000)
§ 162.418 USES ALLOWED.
   (A)   Compliance. All new telecommunications facilities shall comply with
this chapter upon the date of passage. All telecommunications facilities
existing on the date of passage of this chapter shall be allowed to continue
their usage as they presently exist and in accordance with continuance of non-
conformity regulations. New construction, other than routine maintenance, on
existing telecommunications facilities shall comply with the requirements of
this subchapter, although the governing authority may waive or reduce the
burden on the applicant of one or more of the requirements, if in the sole
discretion of the governing authority, the goals of this chapter are better
served thereby.
   (B)   Authorization. In all districts communication facilities shall be
permitted only if specifically authorized with a special use permit by the
Mayor and City Council, upon recommendations by the Zoning Board of Appeals. In
granting a special use permit, the governing authority may impose zoning
conditions to the extent the governing authority concludes such conditions are
necessary to buffer or otherwise minimize any adverse effect of the proposed
telecommunications facility on adjoining properties.
   (C)   Agreement. No approval granted hereunder shall be effective until the
applicant and the city have executed a written agreement setting forth the
particular terms and provisions under which the approval to occupy and use
public ways of the city will be granted. Such agreement shall provide for
complete indemnification for the city and also provide for such liability
insurance as the city may require.
   (D)   Non-exclusive grant. No approval granted under this chapter shall
confer any exclusive right, privilege, license or franchise to occupy or use
the public ways of the city for delivery of telecommunications services or any
other purposes.
   (E)   Rights granted. No approval granted under this subchapter shall convey
any right, title or interest in the public ways, but shall be deemed approval
only to use and occupy the public ways for the limited purpose and term stated
in the approval. Further, no approval shall be construed as any warranty of
title.
(1960 Code, § 60-7-34) (Ord. 6132, passed 5-1-2000)
§ 162.419 REGISTRATION AND PERMITS.
   (A)   Registration and fee.
      (1)   All telecommunications carriers and providers that offer or provide
any telecommunications services for a fee directly to the public within the
city or outside the corporate limits from telecommunications facilities within
the city, shall register with the city pursuant to this subchapter on forms
provided by the city, which shall include:
         (a)   The identity and legal status of the registrant, including any
affiliates;
         (b)   The name, address and telephone number of the officer, agent or
employee responsible for the accuracy of the registration statement; and
         (c)   All of the information listed below for a permit.
      (2)   Each application for registration as a telecommunications carrier
or provider shall be accompanied by a fee of $500.
   (B)   Permit.
      (1)   A proper building permit must be obtained for any
telecommunications facility installation. Applications for special use permit,
planned unit development approval and building permit shall include any
combination of site plans, surveys, maps technical reports or written
narratives necessary to convey the following information:
         (a)   A scaled site plan clearly indicating the location, type and
height of any proposed communications facility, on site land uses and zoning,
adjacent land uses and zoning, adjacent roadways, proposed means of access,
setbacks from property lines, elevation drawings of the proposed facilities and
any other structures;
         (b)   Map and/or aerial photograph showing the proposed facility
location and surrounding areas within 1,500 feet;
         (c)   Legal description of the property proposed for
telecommunications facility;
         (d)   Exact distances, locations and identifications of surrounding
residential properties and other telecommunications facilities;
         (e)   A landscape plan in compliance with the city code;
         (f)   Method of fencing, color of facilities and where applicable, the
method of camouflage and illumination;
         (g)   Plans must be completed and sealed by a professional engineer
registered with the state and must include a statement that the facilities will
comply with the Electronic Industries Associations standards and all city
building and construction codes;
         (h)   A statement by the applicant on the ability of the construction
of the facility to accommodate the co-location of additional antenna
installations; and
         (i)   Any telecommunications company must demonstrate that it is
licensed by the FCC.
      (2)   The applicant must demonstrate how the proposed site fits into its
overall network within the city and plans must include any expected future
facilities desired to be constructed within the city.
(1960 Code, § 60-7-35) (Ord. 6132, passed 5-1-2000)
§ 162.420 CO-LOCATION AND ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Co-location.
      (1)   Co-location of communications antennas is desired to minimize
adverse visual impacts associated with the proliferation and clustering of
communications facilities. Co-location of communications facilities by more
than one carrier on existing or new antenna support structures shall take
precedence over the construction of new single use communication facilities. An
applicant for a new antenna support structure shall demonstrate that a diligent
effort has been made to locate the proposed communications facilities in
accordance with the site selection and protocol requirements of this subchapter
and that, due to valid considerations including physical restraints and
economic or technological feasibility, no more appropriate location is
available. The telecommunications company is required to demonstrate that it
contacted, in writing, the owners of tall structures within a 1,500-foot radius
of the site proposed, asked for permission to install the antenna on those
structures, and was denied in writing, for reasons other than economic ones.
The city may deny the application to construct a new facility if the applicant
has not made a diligent effort, described in writing, to mount the antenna on
an existing structure.
      (2)   In order to reduce the number of antenna support structures needed
in the city in the future, any new proposed support structure shall be designed
to accommodate antennas for more than one user, unless the applicant
demonstrates in writing why such design is unfeasible for technical or physical
reasons. Unless co-location has been demonstrated to be unfeasible, the site
plan shall delineate an area near the base of the tower to be used for the
placement of additional equipment/buildings for other users.
   (B)   Abandonment. In the event the use of any communications facility has
been discontinued for a period of 180 consecutive days, the facility shall be
deemed to be abandoned. Determination of the date of abandonment shall be made
by the City Planning Director, who shall have the right to request
documentation and/or affidavits from the communications facility owner/operator
regarding the issue of facility usage. Upon such abandonment the owner/operator
of the facility shall have 90 days to reactivate the use of the facility,
transfer the tower to another owner/operator who makes actual use of the
facility, or dismantle and remove the facility. If there are two or more users
of a single facility, then this provision shall not become effective until all
users cease using the facility. When a facility has been abandoned and removed
the City Council will take necessary action to vacate any previous special use
or planned unit development approval for the particular abandoned facility.
(1960 Code, § 60-7-36) (Ord. 6132, passed 5-1-2000)
§ 162.421 SITE SELECTION AND PROTOCOLS.
   (A)   Site selection.
      (1)   As a fundamental element of this subchapter, the telecommunications
company proposing to construct an antenna support structure or mount an antenna
on an existing structure is required to demonstrate, using technological
evidence, that the antenna must go where it is proposed in order to satisfy its
function in the company’s grid system. Further, the company must demonstrate by
technological evidence that the height required is the minimum height necessary
to fulfill the communications facilities function in the grid system.
      (2)   Given the unquestioned visual impact of communications towers on
their surrounding environment, no antenna support structure may be constructed
on a speculative basis. Applications for necessary permits will only be
processed when the applicant has in place agreements with an FCC licensed
telecommunications provider for lease/utilization of the support structure
space, written proof of which must be offered by the applicant.
      (3)   Telecommunications facilities must be located and designed to
minimize any adverse effect they may have on residential property values. Sites
shall be placed in locations where the existing topography, vegetation,
buildings or other structures provide the greatest amount of screening.
Location and design of all sites shall consider the impact of the site on the
surrounding neighborhood. In residential districts and residential land use
areas, the minimum lot size for commercial communications tower shall be three
acres, except for government owned properties.
   (B)   Criteria. Specific locations will be evaluated using the following
criteria which are not listed in order of priority:
      (1)   Topography as it relates to line of sight transmissions for optimum
efficiency in service;
      (2)   Availability of road access;
      (3)   Availability of electrical power;
      (4)   Availability of land based telephone lines or microwave link
capability;
      (5)   Leasable lands and landlords who want facilities to be located on
their property;
      (6)   Screening of potential and existing vegetation, structures and
topographic features;
      (7)   Compatibility with adjacent land uses;
      (8)   The least number of sites to cover the desired area;
      (9)   The greatest amount of coverage, consistent with physical
requirements;
      (10)   Opportunities to mitigate possible visual impact; and
      (11)   Availability of suitable existing structures for antenna mounting.
   (C)   Protocols.
      (1)   The following establishes the planning order of priorities for
locating new communications facilities:
         (a)   Place towers and antennas on commercial or government property;
         (b)   Place towers and antennas on other non-residential property;
         (c)   Place antennas on other appropriate existing structures such as
buildings, communication towers, water towers and smoke stacks; and
         (d)   Place new communication towers in residential districts only if
locations for which a need has been demonstrated are not available on existing
structures or in non-residential districts.
      (2)   The telecommunications company is required to demonstrate that it
contacted, in writing, the owners of other more appropriate properties and was
denied, in writing, for reasons other than economic ones.
(1960 Code, § 60-7-37) (Ord. 6132, passed 5-1-2000)
§ 162.422 DESIGN CRITERIA.
   The following is a list of design criteria.
   (A)   New communications facilities shall be located in accordance with the
site selection and protocol requirements of this subchapter and shall be
designed to accommodate antennas for more than one user. All facilities must be
architecturally compatible with surrounding buildings and land uses or
otherwise integrated, through location and design, to blend in with the
existing characteristics of the site to the extent practical. All facilities
must meet or exceed current standards and regulations of the FAA, the FCC, and
any other agency of the federal government with the authority to regulate such
facilities. If such standards and regulations are changed then the owners of
the communications facilities shall bring those facilities into compliance with
the revised standards and regulations within three months of the effective date
of such standards and regulations unless a more stringent schedule is mandated
by the controlling federal agency. Failure to bring facilities into compliance
with such revised standards and regulations shall constitute grounds for the
removal of the facility.
   (B)   All telecommunications facilities must be located on properties that
comply with the lot area requirements of this chapter. Additionally any
telecommunications facility located in a residential zoning district must be
located on a lot with a minimum size of three acres.
   (C)   All communications facilities must be separated from communications
facilities on other properties by at least 1,500 feet.
   (D)   The maximum height for any antenna support structure shall be 150 feet
upon property zoned heavy commercial, 120 feet on property zoned light
commercial and 100 feet on all other properties, unless additional height is
approved by variation by the Mayor and City Council after a proper public
hearing and recommendation of the Zoning Board of Appeals or Planning
Commission in the event of a planned unit development amendment.
   (E)   All antenna support structures must be set back a distance equal to
their height from any property line. At a minimum, any such antenna tower shall
provide a lot line setback at least equal to one-half its height from the
antenna to all adjoining residential property lines.
   (F)   Communications towers shall have a non-contrasting blue, grey or black
finish, or a similar color that minimizes their visibility, unless a different
color is required by the FCC or FAA.
   (G)   All telecommunications facilities shall be lighted only if required by
the FCC or the FAA. Where tower lighting is required, it shall be shielded or
directed to the greatest extent possible in such a manner as to minimize the
amount of light that falls onto nearby properties, particularly residences. A
manually-operated or motion detection light above the equipment shed door is
permitted but shall be kept off except when personnel are actually present at
night.
   (H)   Communications towers shall be constructed in accordance with
standards of the Electronic Industries Association and all applicable
construction and building codes, as may be amended from time to time.
Surrounding areas shall not be negatively affected by support structure
failure, falling ice or other debris or interference. All support structures
shall be fitted with anti-climbing devices as approved by the manufacturers.
   (I)   Building mounted facilities must be architecturally compatible with
the building on which they are mounted and designed and located so as to
minimize any adverse aesthetic impact. Any support structure or mechanical
equipment must be screened or enclosed in such a manner as to mask such
equipment. Such screening shall be of non-combustible material and of the same
color, character and design as the building upon which the screening is
erected. An antenna must be mounted to the wall of a building or extend above
the roof of a building without said screening provided the antenna is painted,
or otherwise made to match the color of the building or structure or background
against which they are most commonly seen. Communications facilities shall not
occupy more than an aggregate total of 10% of the roof area of any building.
   (J)   Site location and development shall preserve the preexisting character
of the site as much as possible. Existing vegetation must be preserved or
improved, and disturbance of the existing topography of the site must be
minimized. All ground mounted facilities and equipment shall be enclosed with a
solid six-foot high fence. Landscaping shall be required to screen as much of
the support structure as possible, the fence surrounding the support structure
and any other ground level features, and in general soften the appearance of
the facility. As a condition of permit the city may set conditions concerning
existing vegetation, topography, walls, fences or other landscaping to achieve
an acceptable degree of screening.
   (K)   Driveways and parking areas constructed in compliance with city code
must be provided as necessary for each telecommunications facility. If any site
is not automated, the number of required parking spaces shall equal the number
of people on the largest shift. Any security fencing must be of a color and
design to blend into the character of the existing environment.
   (L)   No telecommunications facility shall cause interference with the
reception of television and radio broadcasts to the property on which they are
located or to surrounding properties.
   (M)   The telecommunications tower when fully loaded with antennas,
transmitters, other equipment and camouflaging (if needed), shall be designed
to withstand the forces expected during the “maximum credible earthquake”. All
equipment mounting racks and equipment used shall be anchored in such a manner
that such a quake will not tip them over, throw the equipment off the shelves
or otherwise act to damage it. Measures shall be taken to keep the facility
operational in the event of disaster.
   (N)   Backup generators shall only be operated during power outages and for
testing and maintenance purposes. If the facility is located within 100 feet of
a residential dwelling unit, noise attenuation measures shall be included to
reduce noise levels to an exterior noise intensity level of at least 60 dB
(decibels) at the property line and an interior level of 45 dB.
(1960 Code, § 60-7-38) (Ord. 6132, passed 5-1-2000)
§ 162.423 FIRE PREVENTION.
   (A)   All telecommunication facilities shall be designed and operated in
such a manner so as to minimize the risk of igniting a fire or intensifying one
that otherwise occurs.
   (B)   To this end, all of the following measures shall be implemented for
all telecommunications facilities, when determined necessary by the Fire Chief.
      (1)   At least one-hour fire-resistant interior surfaces shall be used on
the construction of all buildings.
      (2)   Monitored automatic fire extinguishing systems approved by the Fire
Chief shall be installed in all equipment buildings and enclosures.
      (3)   Rapid entry (KNOX) systems shall be installed as required by the
Fire Chief.
      (4)   Type and location of vegetation and other materials within ten feet
of the facility, and all new structures including telecommunications towers,
shall be reviewed for fire safety purposes by the Fire Chief.
      (5)   All tree trimmings and trash generated by construction of the
facility shall be removed from the property and properly disposed of prior to
building permit finalization or commencement of operation, whichever comes
first.
(1960 Code, § 60-7-39) (Ord. 6132, passed 5-1-2000)
§ 162.424 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The following are considered exemptions:
      (1)   Proposed communications antennas may, and are encouraged to, co-
locate onto existing approved structures; provided, such co-locations are
accomplished in a manner consistent with the terms of this subchapter, then
such co-locations may be approved without any new or additional special use or
planned unit development approval. Proper plans must be submitted and permits
obtained for such co-location facilities as required by this chapter; and
      (2)   Any communications facilities on properties owned by the city are
exempt from the terms of this subchapter subject to any conditions set by the
Mayor and City Council.
   (B)   Nothing in the Code shall apply to “receive only” communications
facilities for use by an individual residential dwelling unit or business
provided such facilities comply with the height requirements of the zoning
district in which they are located.
(1960 Code, § 60-7-40) (Ord. 6132, passed 5-1-2000)
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
§ 162.430 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of these regulations is to provide a uniform and comprehensive
set of standards for the installation and use of public solar energy systems
(PSESs) designed for on-site use that shall be used solely to reduce on-site
consumption of utility power, but energy output may be delivered to a power
grid to offset the cost of energy on-site. The intent of these regulations is
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare without unduly restricting
the development of PSESs.
(Ord. 8266-2018, passed 10-15-2018)
§ 162.431 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GROUND MOUNT SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy system that is directly
installed into the ground and is not attached or affixed to an existing
structure.
      NET METERING. A billing arrangement that allows solar customers to get
credit for excess electricity that they generate and deliver back to the grid
so that they only pay for their net electricity usage at the end of the month.
      PERSONAL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (PSES). Any device or combination of devices
or elements which rely upon direct sunlight as an energy source including but
not limited to any substance or device which collects sunlight for generating
electricity for use on-site. Energy output may be delivered to a power grid to
offset the cost of energy on-site. However, PSESs with an aggregate collection
and/or focusing area of no more than 25% of the square feet of the subject site
are exempt from this subchapter.
      SOLAR ENERGY. Radiant energy received from the sun that can be collected
in the form of heat or light by a solar collector.
      SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES). The components and subsystems required to
convert solar energy into electric or thermal energy suitable for use. The area
of the system includes all the land inside the perimeter of the system, which
extends to any fencing.
      SOLAR FARM ENERGY SYSTEM (SFES). A commercial facility, on a parcel(s) of
five acres or more that converts sunlight to electricity, whether by
photovoltaics, concentrating solar thermal devices, or various experimental
technologies for on-site or off-site use with the primary purpose of selling
wholesale or retail generated electricity.
      SOLAR FARM ENERGY SYSTEM PROJECT AREA. An SFES project area may be
comprised of a single parcel of land or two or more contiguous parcels of land
providing that the total area of an SFES project area consists of five acres of
land or more.
      SOLAR PANEL. A device for the direct conversion of solar energy into
electricity.
      STRUCTURE MOUNT SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy system in which solar
panels are mounted on top of a roof structure as either a flush mounted system
or as modules fixed to frames which can be tilted toward the south at an
optical angle.
   (B)   All other definitions set forth in §
162.006 of this code shall apply when applicable and to the extent that they
are not inconsistent with the definitions contained in this section.
(Ord. 8266-2018, passed 10-15-18)
§ 162.432 PERSONAL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS (PSESs).
   (A)   Permitted use. PSESs shall be considered an accessory use to a
permitted principal permitted use. Where no principal use is present, a special
use permit must be granted for establishment of PSESs.
   (B)   Special requirements. PSESs shall be subject to the requirements of
the minimum area, bulk and yard requirements of the zoning district in which
they are proposed, unless otherwise stated herein:
      (1)   Ground mounted PSES height and size. Height shall not be greater
than ten feet at maximum tilt of the solar panel(s) as measured from the
average grade at the base of the supporting structure to the highestedge of the
system and the size shall not occupy more than 1% of 10,000 square feet of
ground in any zoning district.
      (2)   Structure mounted PSES height. Shall not be greater than the
allowable height of any structure within the zoning district in which the PSES
is to be installed.
      (3)   Setbacks. The PSES shall maintain perimeter setbacks of at least
ten feet. No PSES shall be permitted to be located in the required front yard.
      (4)   Building codes. All county, state, and national construction codes
shall be followed.
      (5)   Use. The PSES shall provide electricity for on-site use by the
owner. This does not prohibit an owner from making excess power available for
net metering.
      (6)   Approved solar components. Electric solar energy system components
must have an Underwriters Laboratory (UL) listing or approved equivalent. Solar
energy collectors shall be documented by the manufacturer as being non-
reflective pursuant to recognized engineering standards showing reflectivity of
less than 30% or shall be placed such that concentrated sunlight or glare shall
not be directed onto aircraft or nearby properties or streets.
      (7)   Screening. Ground mounted PSES must be substantially screened from
public view (including adjacent properties and public rights-of way) by
fencing, walls, plantings, or other architectural feature, or any combination
thereof; provided however, that the screening shall not be required to be so
dense, so tall, or so located as to render the equipment essentially non-
functional.
   (C)   Certificate of compliance. Before a building permit is issued for a
PSES, the following shall be submitted to the City of Belleville Economic
Development, Planning and Zoning Department for review:
      (1)   Site plan showing:
         (a)   Name, address, and phone number of the property owner;
         (b)   Property lines;
         (c)   All structures;
         (d)   Septic field (if any);
         (e)   Field tile location (if any);
         (f)   Setback lines;
         (g)   Location of all solar panels and associated equipment; and
         (h)   Location of the electrical disconnect for the PSES.
      (2)   Evidence that the local electric utility has been informed of the
applicant’s intent to install a PSES.
      (3)   Evidence that the site plan has been submitted to the City of
Belleville Fire Department. After an approved final inspection of the PSES and
all building permits, a certificate of compliance shall be issued.
(Ord. 8266-2018, passed 10-15-18) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.433 SOLAR FARM ENERGY SYSTEM (SFESs).
   (A)   Special use. SFESs shall be permitted as special uses in all districts
provided minimum area, bulk and yard requirements of the zoning district in
which they are proposed are met, unless otherwise exceptions are applied for
and granted during the special use permit process. SFESs shall be subject to
the procedures and standards included in §§
162.515 through
162.520, Special Use Permits, unless otherwise stated in this section.
   (B)   Special requirements. SFESs are subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Height. Shall not exceed 18 feet as measured from the average grade
at the base of the supporting structure to the highest edge of the system at
maximum tilt of the solar panel(s).
      (2)   Setbacks. The front, side and rear yard setbacks shall be a minimum
of 50 feet from the property lines which form the outside perimeter of an SFES
project area unless varied by the City of Belleville City Council in its
discretion or per expressed request by the applicant.
      (3)   Fencing. A fence of at least six feet in height but no greater than
ten feet shall enclose the SFES.
      (4)   Lighting. If lighting is provided at the project, lighting shall be
shielded and downcast such that the light does not spill onto adjacent parcels.
      (5)   Noise. Noise levels measured at the property line shall not exceed
50 decibels when located adjacent to an existing residence or residential
district. Noise levels shall be enforced by both the State of Illinois and the
City of Belleville.
      (6)   Installation and design. The SFES shall be designed and located to
prevent glare toward any structures on nearby properties and roadways,
including, but not limited to, highways and streets.
      (7)   Wiring. All wiring between solar panels and the solar farm facility
substation shall be underground unless otherwise approved by the City of
Belleville.
      (8)   Outdoor storage. Only the outdoor storage of materials, vehicles,
and equipment that directly support the operation and maintenance of the solar
farm shall be allowed.
      (9)   Other. Any other requirements or conditions as determined necessary
by the City of Belleville.
   (C)   Annual review and reporting. The applicant, owner, or operator of a
SFES project shall submit to the City of Belleville Economic Development,
Planning and Zoning Department on the first Monday of July of each year
following SFES project approval a report regarding SFES maintenance and
operation.
      (1)   This report shall include:
         (a)   Any physical modifications to the SFES or its infrastructure;
         (b)   Complaints pertaining to setbacks, noise, appearance, safety,
lighting, and use of any public roads, received by the applicant, owner, or
operator concerning the SFES, and the resolution of such complaints;
         (c)   Calls for emergency services, including the nature of the
emergency and how it was resolved;
         (d)   Status of liability insurance; and
         (e)   Any other information that the City of Belleville might
reasonably request.
      (2)   Within 30 days of the receipt of this annual report, the City of
Belleville Economic Development, Planning and Zoning Department shall review
the report and conduct an on-site field review of the SFES project. The City of
Belleville Economic Development, Planning and Zoning Department shall compile a
written report of its findings and, within 60 days of the receipt of the annual
report, and submit said report to the City of Belleville City Council.
      (3)   The City of Belleville Economic Development, Planning and Zoning
Department shall charge a fee for this annual review in the amount of no more
than $500 per SFES project area. This fee shall be paid to the City of
Belleville by the SFES applicant, owner, or operator at the time of annual
report submission. Failure to provide the annual report and required fee shall
be considered a cessation of operations.
      (4)   The applicant, owner, or operator of an SFES project shall provide
the City of Belleville access to the SFES project area for the purposes
described. Failure to provide access shall be deemed a violation of this
section.
   (D)   Certification. SFESs shall conform to all applicable industry
standards, including those from the UL and Federal Aviation Administration
(FAA) and, when applicable, all SFESs shall conform to any applicable Air
Installation Compatible Use Zone (AICUZ) study, and the requirements of any
overlay district, including but not limited to the Airport Overlay (AO)
District. All applicable county, state, and national construction and electric
codes shall be followed.
   (E)   Safety. All SFESs shall provide the following at all locked entrances:
      (1)   A visible “High Voltage” warning sign (such signs shall also be
placed on the perimeter fencing, with at least two signs on the outside of each
side of the perimeter fence);
      (2)   Name(s) and phone number(s) of the electric utility provider;
      (3)   Name(s) and phone number(s) for the site operator;
      (4)   The facility’s 911 address, GPS coordinates; and
      (5)   A Knox box, or other similar approved device, with keys.
   (F)   Application. The application for a special use permit for an SFES
shall include:
      (1)   A written summary of the project including a general description of
the project, including its approximate generating capacity.
      (2)   The name(s), address(s), and phone number(s) of the owner and, if
different, SFES operator.
      (3)   A site plan of the SFES site showing:
         (a)   Boundaries of the site;
         (b)   All SFES structures including, but not limited to, fencing,
gates, the project solar panels, substation, interconnect substation, and
location and voltage of any overhead transmission lines;
         (c)   Property lines;
         (d)   Setback lines;
         (e)   Location of all existing structures with their uses identified;
         (f)   Ancillary equipment and structures;
         (g)   Transmission lines;
         (h)   Wells;
         (i)   Septic fields;
         (j)   Field tile location;
         (k)   Existing easements;
         (l)   Floodplain location and elevation; and,
         (m)   Wetland location (if any);
      (4)   Examples of all facility signage;
      (5)   A plan for ongoing maintenance of the SFES; and
      (6)   All other information contained in §§
162.515 through
162.520, Special Use Permits, as may be required to file an application.
   (G)   Decommissioning plan. Prior to applying for a building permit, the
SFES project applicant, owner, or operator shall submit a decommissioning plan
to the City of Belleville Economic Development, Planning and Zoning Department.
The City of Belleville Economic Development, Planning and Zoning Department
shall review the plan for completeness and refer it to the City of Belleville
City Council.
      (1)   The plan shall include:
         (a)   A description of the plan to remove the SFES equipment and
restore the land to its previous use upon the end of the project’s life or
cessation of operations, as stated in division (J) below;
         (b)   Provisions for the removal of structures, debris, and associated
equipment on the surface and to a level of not less than five feet below the
surface, and the sequence and timing in which removal is expected to occur;
         (c)   Provisions for the restoration of the grade, soil, vegetation,
and drain tile (if any);
         (d)   An estimate of the decommissioning costs certified by an
independent professional engineer (not the applicant or owner, nor any
employee, agent, or affiliate of same), approved by the City of Belleville, in
current dollars. The engineer providing this estimate shall be engaged under
contract by the city and all costs associated with this engagement shall be
borne by the applicant, owner, or operator;
         (e)   A written financial plan approved to ensure that funds will be
available for decommissioning and land restoration without taking into
consideration the scrap value in decommissioning costs;
         (f)   A provision that the terms of the decommissioning plan shall be
binding upon the applicant, owner, operator, and any of their successors,
assigns, or heirs;
         (g)   Upon review of the decommissioning plan, the Finance Committee
or its successor committee(s), of the City of Belleville City Council shall set
an amount equal to 110% of the estimated cost of decommissioning to be held in
a bond, escrow, or other acceptable form of funds approved by the Committee.
Any such bond must be issued for a term of at least five years and must not be
cancelable during that term. Payments made under any such bond will be placed
in the City of Belleville General Fund. The plan shall state that the City of
Belleville shall have access to the project and to the funds to affect or
complete decommissioning if the applicant, owner, or operator fails to complete
removal and decommissioning of the SFES strictly according to the terms of the
decommissioning plan within 30 days of notice from the City of Belleville
Economic Development, Planning and Zoning Department following a “cessation of
operations” as defined in division (J) below or such additional time that may
be granted by the City of Belleville; and
      (2)   The applicant shall provide the City of Belleville Economic
Development, Planning and Zoning Department with a new estimate of the cost of
decommissioning the SFES project every five years, due on the anniversary of
the special use being granted, under the same conditions as set forth in this
section above. Upon receipt of this new estimate, the City of Belleville
Economic Development, Planning and Zoning Department may require the applicant,
owner, or operator of the SFES project to provide a new financial plan for
decommissioning acceptable to the City of Belleville Economic Development,
Planning and Zoning Department. Failure to provide an acceptable financial plan
shall be considered a cessation of operations.
   (H)   Certificate of compliance. Before a building permit is issued, the
following shall be submitted to the City of Belleville Economic Development,
Planning and Zoning Department for review:
      (1)   An updated and finalized site plan with all items previously
required in the application for a special use and any modifications required by
the City of Belleville City Council, or City of Belleville Economic
Development, Planning and Zoning Department;
      (2)   Emergency plan. The owner or operator shall cooperate with the
local fire department or district to develop an emergency response plan and
shall cooperate with all local fire and rescue authorities to provide
specialized training, if necessary, (at the owner or operator’s expense) to
personnel who are to respond to emergencies on the site. The site and emergency
plan shall be submitted to the local fire department or district whose
jurisdiction is included in whole or in part within the SFES project area;
      (3)   An interconnection agreement and power purchase agreement with the
applicable electric utility;
      (4)   A stormwater and groundwater management plan demonstrating best
management practices, with erosion and sediment control provisions;
      (5)   All required studies, reports, certifications, insurance policies,
declaration pages, approvals, an executed AIMA, and other documentation
demonstrating compliance with the provisions of this section. After an approved
final inspection of all building permits, a certificate of compliance shall be
issued.
   (I)   Indemnification and liability.
      (1)   The applicant, owner, and operator of the SFES project shall
defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the City of Belleville and its officials
(elected and appointed), employees, departments, agents, and attorneys from and
against any and all claims, demands, losses, suits, causes of action, damages,
injuries, costs, expenses, and liabilities whatsoever, including attorney’s
fees, without limitation, arising out of acts or omissions of the applicant,
owner, or operator associated with the construction or operation of the SFES
project.
      (2)   The applicant, owner, or operator of the SFES project shall
maintain a current general liability policy covering bodily injury, death, and
property damage with limits of at least $2,000,000 per occurrence and
$4,000,000 in the aggregate. Such policy and the declaration page for such
policy shall be provided annually to the City of Belleville Economic
Development, Planning and Zoning Department. Evidence of liability coverage
must be reported to the City of Belleville Economic Development, Planning and
Zoning Department on an annual basis, and any loss of coverage must be reported
within three working days of loss. Failure to maintain coverage shall be
considered a cessation of operations pursuant to division (J) below.
   (J)   Cessation of operations.
      (1)   For any reason stated in this subchapter or if any SFES provided
for in this subchapter has not been in operation and producing electricity for
at least 12 consecutive months it shall be considered a “cessation of
operations.” The City of Belleville shall notify the applicant, owner, or
operator to remove the system. Within 30 days of the receipt of such notice,
the applicant, owner, or operator shall either submit evidence showing that the
system has been operating and producing electricity or remove it pursuant to
the terms of the decommissioning plan described in division (G).
      (2)   If the applicant, owner, or operator fails to or refuses to remove
the solar energy system as provided for in the decommissioning plan within 30
days of the receipt of notice from the City of Belleville or upon such
additional time as may be granted, the City of Belleville shall have access to
the project and to the funds to affect or complete decommissioning and the
violation may be referred for enforcement.
   (K)   Penalties.
      (1)   A failure to obtain applicable building permit(s) for the
construction of a solar energy system or failure to comply with the
requirements of a building permit or the provisions of this subchapter shall be
deemed a violation of this subchapter and shall be subject to penalties as
found in §
162.999 of this code. The City of Belleville may bring an action to enforce
compliance of the requirements of this section by filing an action filing in
the St. Clair County, Illinois, Twentieth Judicial Circuit Court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this subchapter, any other appropriate
remedy, or such other order as the court deems necessary to secure compliance
with this subchapter.
      (2)   Any person who violates this subchapter shall be subject to those
penalties as set forth in §
162.999 of this code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each
day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
      (3)   Nothing herein shall prevent the City of Belleville from seeking
such other legal or equitable remedies available to prevent or remedy any
violations of this subchapter.
(Ord. 8266-2018, passed 10-15-18) Penalty, see §
162.999
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 162.435 APPLICABILITY.
   Off-street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance with this
subchapter for all structures and uses erected or established after the
effective date of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 60-8-1)
§ 162.436 EXISTING PARKING/LOADING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Existing off-street parking or loading facilities located on the same
lot as the use served shall not be reduced, or if already less than, shall not
be further reduced, below the requirements and standards for similar new
structures or uses.
   (B)   When an existing structure or use is damaged or destroyed and
subsequently repaired or rebuilt, parking/loading facilities equivalent to any
maintained at the time of such damage or destruction shall be restored, but
additional parking/loading facilities need not be provided.
   (C)   Whenever the use of any structure or premises is intensified through
addition of dwelling units, increased floor area, greater seating capacity and
the like, additional parking and loading facilities commensurate with such
increases in use-intensity shall be provided.
   (D)   Whenever the existing use of a structure is changed to a different
use, parking or loading facilities shall be provided as required herein for
such new use.
(1960 Code, § 60-8-2)
§ 162.437 PARKING AREA DESIGN STANDARDS.
   All areas providing off-street parking shall conform to the standards
indicated in the sections which follow. Note: standards applicable to all
parking areas are indicated by one asterisk (*); standards applicable to all
parking areas, except those accessory to single- or two-family dwellings are
indicated by two asterisks (**).
(1960 Code, § 60-8-3) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.438 SPACES.
   (A)   Each required parking space shall be at least nine feet wide and 19
feet long, and shall have at least seven feet of vertical clearance. The area
space shall be situated so that no part of any parked vehicle overhangs public
right-of-way.*
   (B)   Marking shall be laid and restored as often as necessary to clearly
delineate each parking space.**
(1960 Code, § 60-8-4) (Ord. 3825, passed 9-8-1981) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.439 INTERIOR AISLES.
   Aisles within parking lots shall be sufficiently wide to permit safe and
efficient movement in the aisles and into and out of the parking spaces. Aisles
designed for two-way traffic shall be at least 25 feet wide. One-way aisles
designed for 60-degree parking shall be at least 18 feet wide and for 45-degree
parking shall be at least 14 feet wide.
(1960 Code, § 60-8-5) (Ord. 3825, passed 9-8-1981) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.440 ACCESS WAYS.
   (A)   Parking areas shall be designed so that ingress to or egress from a
parking space is from an aisle or driveway, not directly from the public right-
of-way.*
   (B)   No access way to any parking area shall be located within 25 feet of
any corner formed by the intersection of the rights-of-way of two or more
streets. At intersections where traffic-control devices are installed, the
Administrator may increase this requirement as necessary to prevent hazards.*
   (C)   Parking area access ways (including residential driveways) and public
streets shall be aligned to form, as closely as feasible, right angles.*
   (D)   The access way to every parking lot located in any commercial district
or in the Industrial District shall be at least 24 feet wide unless two one-way
drives, each 12 feet wide, are provided.*
   (E)   The access way to every parking area located in any residential
district shall be at least ten feet wide; but, if the parking area contains
more than eight parking spaces or, if the access way is longer than 100 feet,
access shall be provided either by one two-way drive at least 20 feet wide, or
by two one-way drives, each ten feet wide.
(1960 Code, § 60-8-6) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.441 SURFACING.
   (A)   Driveways, off-street parking areas, off-street parking spaces, off-
street parking lots and off-street loading areas (collectively known as
“areas”) shall be improved with a compacted stone base six inches thick, and
surfaced with two inches of asphalt or concrete. This is a minimum design
standard intended for light vehicle parking. Other designs in lieu of this will
be considered.
   (B)   These surfacing requirements shall also be applicable to existing
areas in the following situations:
      (1)   When areas are expanded;
      (2)   When areas are improved partially by asphalt or concrete, the whole
area shall be improved;
      (3)   When single-family dwellings are used as businesses;
      (4)   When a commercial building is vacant for a period of one year or 18
months in any three- year period;
      (5)   When a new business opens in an existing commercial building;
      (6)   When a multi-family dwelling is more than 50% vacant for a period
of one year or 18 months in any three-year period;
      (7)   When a two-family dwelling is vacant for more than one year or 18
months in any three- year period; and
      (8)   The provisions in §§
162.448 through
162.454 of this chapter shall still apply to commercial and industrial
districts.
(1960 Code, § 60-8-7) (Ord. 7219, passed 1-20-2009)
§ 162.442 LIGHTING.
   Any light(s) used to illuminate any parking area shall be arranged or
shielded so as to confine direct light rays within the parking area boundary
lines to the greatest extent practicable. Further, a minimal amount of lighting
in parking lots must be left on after dusk, whether or not the building is
occupied, in order to ensure safety for any emergency that may occur on or
around the lot.
(1960 Code, § 60-8-8) (Ord. 7278, passed 6-15-2009)
§ 162.443 LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   In order to reduce heat and glare, to minimize blowing of dust and
trash, and to reduce the oppressive visual effects of large open parking areas,
landscaping shall be provided and maintained within every parking lot that
contains 20 or more parking spaces. A minimum of 5% of the total parking lot
area shall be set aside for said landscaping.**
   (B)   A landscaping plan (either a separate document or an element of a more
inclusive development plan) shall accompany every application for an initial
certificate of zoning compliance to develop any parking lot that will contain
20 or more spaces.
   (C)   The landscaping plan shall include the following information:
      (1)   Proposed type, amount, size and spacing of plantings, including
trees, shrubbery and ground cover;
      (2)   Proposed size, construction materials and drainage of landscaped
islands or planting beds; and
      (3)   Sketch indicating proposed spatial relationships of landscaped
areas, parking spaces, automobile circulation and pedestrian movement.
(1960 Code, § 60-8-9) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.444 PARKING LOTS AND DRIVEWAYS ABUTTING RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   Whenever a parking lot or a driveway to a parking lot is hereafter
established in other than a residence district so as to abut the side or rear
line of a lot in a residence district, a solid masonry wall, shrubbery planting
or a substantial sightly fence not less than five feet high and no more than
eight feet high shall be constructed and maintained along said side or rear lot
line up to, but not beyond the setback building line. In addition, in all use
districts, the lighting, including any permitted illuminated sign, on any
parking lot or driveway shall be arranged so that there will be no annoying
glare directed or reflected toward residence buildings or residence districts.
(1960 Code, § 60-8-10) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.445 EXCEPTION: COUNTY PUBLIC PARKING GARAGE.
   The aforementioned standards and restrictions as outlined in §§
162.438,
162.439,
162.440,
162.441 and
162.442 of this chapter shall not be applicable to the two floors of the County
Public Parking Garage which are reserved for employees of the County Building.
All of the above restrictions shall apply to those levels of the aforementioned
public parking garage, which will be open to the general public.
(1960 Code, § 60-8-11) (Ord. 4138, passed 1-7-1985)
§ 162.446 LOCATION OF PARKING.
   (A)   All off-street parking shall be located in conformity with the
requirements in §§
162.447 and
162.448 of this chapter.
   (B)   A permit must be obtained from the Zoning Administrator for
construction and development of new off-street parking lots and the enlargement
or alteration of existing parking lots.
(1960 Code, § 60-8-12) (Ord. 4960, passed 9-15-1992) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.447 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   (1)   Parking spaces accessory to dwellings located in any residential
zoning district shall be located on the same lot as the dwelling. Such parking
spaces shall not be located in any front yard, except in the driveway, but may
be located in the side or rear yards.
      (2)   Each parking space accessory to a multi-family dwelling shall be
unobstructed so that no vehicle need to be moved in order to allow another
vehicle to enter/exit the parking area.
   (B)   All parking spaces accessory to permitted non-dwelling uses located in
any residential district generally shall be located on the same lot as the use
served. However, the Administrator may allow such parking facilities to be
located on another parcel within 200 feet of the use served if the “same lot”
requirement if not feasible.
(1960 Code, § 60-8-13) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.448 COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Parking spaces accessory to any dwelling located in any commercial
district shall either be located on the same lot as the dwelling or on another
parcel within 200 feet of the residential premises. Parking lots accessory to
any commercial or industrial use located in any Commercial District, or in the
Industrial District shall be located within 500 feet of the use served;
provided that, no portion of any such parking lot shall extend into any
residential district.
   (B)   In Any Commercial District or in the Industrial District, off-street
parking facilities for different buildings or uses may be provided
collectively; but only if the total number of spaces so located together is not
less than the sum of the separate requirements for each use, and if all
regulations governing location of parking spaces in relation to the uses served
are observed.
   (C)   Commercial uses in the area shown in the map shall be exempt from the
parking requirements of this chapter if they are located within 500 feet of a
municipal parking lot.
(1960 Code, § 60-8-14) (Ord. 7278, passed 6-15-2009)
§ 162.449 DESIGN AND LOCATION OF OFF-STREET LOADING FACILITIES.
   All off-street loading facilities shall conform to the minimum standards
indicated in §§
162.450 through
162.454 of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 60-8-15) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.450 SIZE OF SPACE.
   Every required off-street loading space shall be at least 12 feet wide and
45 feet long exclusive of aisle and maneuver space, and shall have vertical
clearance of at least 14 feet. In no case shall a vehicle being loaded or
unloaded overhang into the public right-of-way.
(1960 Code, § 60-8-16) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.451 ACCESS WAY.
   Every off-street loading space shall have a safe means of vehicular access
to a street or alley. Such access way shall be at least 12 feet wide.
(1960 Code, § 60-8-17) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.452 SURFACING.
   Every off-street loading area shall be improved with a compacted stone base
at least seven inches thick, surfaced with at least two inches of asphaltic
concrete.
(1960 Code, § 60-8-18) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.453 BUFFER STRIPS.
   No loading space or area for vehicles over two-ton cargo capacity shall be
developed closer than 25 feet to the lot line of any lot located in any
residential district unless such space/area is completely enclosed by walls, a
solid fence or closely planted shrubbery at least ten feet in height and of
sufficient density to block the view from the residential property.
(1960 Code, § 60-8-19) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.454 LOCATION.
   Every off-street loading space that is required or provided shall be located
on the same parcel of land as the use served, and not closer than 50 feet to
the intersection of the rights-of-way of two or more streets, and not on
required front yards.
(1960 Code, § 60-8-20) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.455 COMPUTATION OF REQUIRED PARKING/LOADING SPACES.
   In computing the number of parking spaces required by this chapter, the
Zoning Administrator shall apply the following rules.
   (A)   In computing parking space requirements based on the number of
employees, the maximum number of employees on the premises at any period of the
day shall be used. EMPLOYEE PARKING means one parking space shall be required
per one employee, unless otherwise stated.
   (B)   In computing parking or loading space requirements on the basis of
building floor area, the gross floor area shall be used.
   (C)   Whenever it is necessary to translate gross parking lot area into
number of parking spaces, 375 square feet of gross area shall be deemed one
parking space.
   (D)   If computation of the number of parking or loading spaces required by
this subchapter results in a fractional space, any fraction of one-half or more
shall be counted as one space.
   (E)   No space or portion thereof needed to satisfy the minimum applicable
requirement for number of off-street parking or loading spaces shall be counted
as part of the off-street parking or loading spaces required for another
structure or use.
(1960 Code, § 60-8-21) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.456 NUMBER OF PARKING AND LOADING SPACES REQUIRED.
   Off-street parking and loading spaces shall be provided as indicated in
tabular form below. For any use that is not listed in the table, the same
amount of parking and loading space shall be provided as is required for the
most similar listed use. The Zoning Administrator shall make the determination
of similarity.
Use Parking Spaces Required Loading Spaces Required (If Any)
Use                         Parking Spaces Required   Loading Spaces Required
                                                      (If Any)
Commercial, Office, Service
                                                      To 10,000 sq. ft. of
                                                      floor area: 1 space
Note: all commercial and                              More than 10,000 sq. ft.:
service uses, unless        1 space per 300 sq. ft.   1 space, plus 1
specifically indicated      of floor area             additional space per
                                                      50,000 sq. ft. of floor
                                                      area in excess of 10,000
                                                      sq. ft.
Banks, savings and loans                             To 30,000 sq. ft. of
(both walk-in and drive-in)                           floor area
                                                      None required
                                                      30,001-100,000 sq. ft.: 1
                            1 space per 300 sq. ft.   space
   Walk-in               of floor area, plus       More than 100,000 sq.
                            employee parking          ft.: 1 space, plus 1
                                                      additional per 100,000
                                                      sq. ft.
                                                      space per 100,000 sq. ft.
   Drive-in teller window5 spaces per              of floor area in excess
                                                      of 100,000 sq. ft.
Beauty and barber shops     2 spaces per chair, plus  Not applicable
                            employee parking
                            4 spaces per bowling lane
                            plus additional spaces as Not applicable, except as
Bowling alleys              required herein for       required for affiliated
                            affiliated uses such as   uses
                            restaurants and taverns
Car wash                    5 spaces per wash lane    Not applicable
                                                      To 25,000 sq. ft. of
                                                      floor area: 2 spaces
                                                      More than 25,000 sq. ft.
Furniture and appliance     1 space per 600 sq. ft.   of floor area: 2 spaces,
stores                      of floor area             plus 1 additional space
                                                      per 25,000 sq. ft. of
                                                      floor area in excess of
                                                      25,000 sq. ft.
                            1 space per 150 sq. ft.
                            of floor area devoted to
Home occupations            the home occupation in    Not applicable
                            addition to the parking
                            requirements for the
                            dwelling
Theaters                                             Not applicable
   Indoor                1 space per 4 seats in     
                            the largest seating area.
   Drive-in              On review by the           
                            Administrator
                            1 space per 600 sq. ft.   To 25,000 sq. ft. of
                            of enclosed floor area,   floor area and open lot
                            plus: Up to 10,000 sq.    area: 2 spaces
                            ft. of open lot area
                            devoted to sale/display
                            of vehicles: 1 space per  More than 25,000 sq. ft.
Vehicle sales               2,500 sq. ft. of open lot of floor area and open
                            area above 10,000 sq.     lot area: 2 spaces, plus
                            ft.: 4 spaces plus 1      1 additional space per
                            additional space per      25,000 sq. ft. in excess
                            5,000 sq. ft. of open lot of 25,000 sq. ft.
                            area in excess of 10,000
                            sq. ft.
Dwellings, Lodging
Hotels, motels, rooming     1 space per lodging unit, 1 space if the use has
houses, lodges              plus employee parking     20,000 sq. ft. or more of
                                                      floor area
Mobile homes                2 spaces per mobile home  Not applicable
                                                     Not applicable
                            1 bedroom or less         1.5 spaces per dwelling
Multiple-family dwellings                             unit
                            2 or more bedrooms        2 spaces per dwelling
                                                      unit
Single-family and two-      2 spaces per dwelling     Not applicable
family dwellings            unit
Educational, Institutional, Recreational
Churches, auditoriums       1 space per 4 seats in    Not applicable
                            the largest seating area
                                                      To 50,000 sq. ft. of
                                                      floor area: l space
Hospitals                   1 space per 2 beds, plus  50,001-100,000 sq. ft: 2
                            employee parking          spaces
                                                      100,001-200,000 sq. ft: 3
                                                      spaces
Libraries, museums          1 space per 500 sq. ft.   On review by the
                            of floor area             Administrator
                                                      To 50,000 sq. ft. of
                                                      floor area: 1 space
Nursing homes               1 space per 4 beds        50,001-100,000 sq. ft.: 2
                                                      spaces
                                                      100,001-200,000 sq. ft.:
                                                      3 spaces
Schools                                              On review by the
                                                      Administrator
                            1 space for every 20
   Elementary and junior students that the
high                        building is designed to    
                            accommodate, plus
                            employee parking
                            1 space for every 4
                            students over 16 yrs. old
   Senior High           that the building is       
                            designed to accommodate,
                            plus employee parking
                            1 space for every 3
                            students that the
   Trade schools         building is designed to    
                            accommodate, plus
                            employee parking
Industrial
                                                      To 20,000 sq. ft. of
                                                      floor area: 1 space
                            Employee parking (1.5     20,001-50,000 sq. ft.: 2
                            spaces per employee),     spaces
Any manufacturing,          plus 1 space per company  50,000-90,000 sq. ft.: 3
warehousing or other        vehicle, plus 1 visitor   spaces
industrial use              space per 25 employees on Above 90,000 sq. ft.: 3
                            the major shift           spaces, plus 1 additional
                                                      space per 50,000 sq. ft.
                                                      of floor area in excess
                                                      of 90,000 sq. ft.
 
(1960 Code, § 60-8-22) (Ord. 4770, passed - -)
NON-CONFORMITIES
§ 162.470 PURPOSE.
   The requirements imposed by this chapter are designed to guide the use of
land by encouraging the development of structures and uses that are compatible
with the predominant character of each of the various districts. Lots,
structures and uses of land or structures that do not conform to the
requirements of the district in which they are located impede appropriate
development. For example, non-conformities are frequently responsible for heavy
traffic on residential streets, the overtaxing of parking facilities, the
emission of noxious fumes or excessive noise and/or the lowering of property
values. The regulations of this subchapter are intended to alleviate such
existing/potential problems by encouraging the gradual elimination of non-
conformities.
(1960 Code, § 60-9-1)
§ 162.471 NON-CONFORMING LOTS.
   Any vacant lot that does not conform to one or more of the lot size (area,
dimensions) requirements of the district in which it is located may be used for
any use permitted in the district if such vacant lot:
   (A)   Is of record on the effective date of this chapter (or pertinent
amendment thereto);
   (B)   Has continuously remained in separate ownership from abutting tracts
of land throughout the entire period during which the creation of such lot was
prohibited by any applicable zoning or other ordinance; and
   (C)   Is at least 30 feet wide.
(1960 Code, § 60-9-2)
§ 162.472 TWO OR MORE LOTS IN COMMON OWNERSHIP.
   If two or more lots or combinations of lots and portions of lots with
continuous frontage were of record and in common ownership on the effective
date of this chapter, and if one or more of those lots does not meet the
minimum lot width, depth and area requirements of this district in which it is
located, the land involved shall be considered an undivided parcel. No portion
of any such parcel shall be developed, except in compliance with this chapter,
nor shall any such parcel be divided so as to create a lot that does not meet
the requirements of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 60-9-3)
§ 162.473 NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Any lawful structure which exists on the effective date of this chapter, but
which could not be erected under the terms of this chapter because of
restrictions on lot size, height, setbacks or other characteristics of the
structure or its location on the lot may lawfully remain, subject to the
following provisions.
   (A)   Enlargement, alterations. No such structure shall be enlarged or
altered in any way which increases its non-conformity.
   (B)   Relocation. No such structure shall be relocated unless, after
relocation, it will conform to all the regulations of the district in which it
is located.
   (C)   Reconstruction.
      (1)   Any non-conforming building or structure other than a single
residence in an “A-1” District damaged by more than 75% by fire, collapse,
explosion or Act of God cannot be reconstructed, repaired or rebuilt unless it
is made to conform to this chapter.
      (2)   Any non-conforming single-family residence in an “A-1” District
damaged by more than 75% by fire, collapse, explosion or an act of God may be
rebuilt. Prior to rebuilding, the plans for the new residence must be approved
by the Zoning Board of Appeals and the City Council. There shall be no fee
charged for review by the Zoning Board or the City Council.
   (D)   Exception. Any existing mobile home located in the city may be
replaced with a mobile home, provided such replacements take place within 60
days of the removal of the original mobile home. All new mobile homes shall
conform to all the regulations of the district in which it is located.
(1960 Code, § 60-9-4) (Ord. 7187, passed 10-20-2008)
§ 162.474 NON-CONFORMING USES OCCUPYING A STRUCTURE.
   If any lawful use occupying a structure exists on the effective date of this
chapter, but would not be allowed under the terms of this chapter, such use may
lawfully continue, subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   Maintenance. Any structure housing a non-conforming use may be
maintained through ordinary repairs.
   (B)   Enlargement, alteration, reconstruction and relocation. No structure
housing in non-conforming use shall be enlarged, structurally altered,
reconstructed or relocated unless 50% of the structure is changed to a
permitted use.
   (C)   Extension of use. No non-conforming use may be extended to any part(s)
of the structure not intended or designed for such use, nor shall the non-
conforming use be extended to occupy any land outside such structure.
   (D)   Change of use. A non-conforming use of a structure may be changed to a
similar use, to a more restrictive use or to a conforming use. Such use shall
not thereafter be changed to a less restrictive use.
   (E)   Discontinuance of use. When a non-conforming use of a structure, or of
a structure and premises in combination, is discontinued for 12 consecutive
months or for 18 months during any three-year period, the non-conforming use
shall not thereafter be resumed. Any discontinuance caused by government action
and without any contributing fault by the non-conforming user shall not be
counted in calculating the length of discontinuance. For the purposes of
multiple-family dwellings discontinuance of use shall be by either physical
deconversion of the structure or no valid occupancy exceeding 12 consecutive
months.
(1960 Code, § 60-9-5) (Ord. 3714, passed 6-16-1980; Ord. 9217-2023, passed 11-
6-2023)
§ 162.475 NON-CONFORMING USES OF LAND.
   Any lawful use of land existing on the effective date of this chapter that
would not be permitted under the terms of this chapter may lawfully continue,
subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   Intensification or extension of use. A non-conforming use of land
shall not be intensified, or extended to occupy a greater area of land than was
occupied by such use on the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Relocation. No non-conforming use of land shall be moved, in whole or
in part, unless such use, upon relocation, will conform to all pertinent
regulations of the district in which it is proposed to be located.
   (C)   Change of use. Whenever a non-conforming use of a building has been
changed to a more restrictive use or to a conforming use, such shall not
thereafter be changed to a less restrictive use. If no structural alterations
are made, a non-conforming use of a building may be changed to another non-
conforming use of the same or more restricted classification.
   (D)   Discontinuance. When a non-conforming use of land is discontinued for
a period of 12 consecutive months, it shall not thereafter be resumed, and any
subsequent use of such land shall conform to the applicable district
regulations. Any discontinuance caused by government action and without any
contributing fault by the owner or operator shall not be counted in calculating
the length of discontinuance. For the purposes of multiple-family dwellings
discontinuance of use shall be by either physical deconversion of the structure
or no valid occupancy exceeding 12 consecutive months.
(1960 Code, § 60-9-6) (Ord. 9217-2023, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 162.476 NON-CONFORMITIES UNDER PERMIT AUTHORITY.
   The regulations of this subchapter shall not apply to any change in any
existing structure or to any change in the use of a structure or of land for
which a permit was issued prior to the effective date of this chapter or any
pertinent amendment thereto, provided that the work authorized by such permit
is completed within a reasonable time.
(1960 Code, § 60-9-7)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 162.490 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter the Zoning Administrator is
hereby given the duty, power and authority to enforce the provisions of this
chapter. The Mayor, with the consent of the Council, shall appoint the Zoning
Administrator and any other employees as he or she deem necessary to assist in
the enforcement of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 60-10-1)
§ 162.491 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator is hereby authorized and directed to
administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   This broad responsibility encompasses, but is not limited to, the
following specific duties:
      (1)   To review and pass upon applications for initial and final
certificates of zoning compliance;
      (2)   To inspect land, structures, and uses to determine compliance with
this chapter and, where there are violations, to initiate appropriate
corrective action;
      (3)   To review and forward to the Zoning Board of Appeals all
applications for variances, appeals and amendments;
      (4)   To review and forward to the Zoning Board of Appeals all
applications for special use permits;
      (5)   To maintain up-to-date records of this chapter including, but not
limited to, district maps, certificates of zoning compliance, special use
permits, temporary use permits, variances, interpretative decisions of the
Board of Appeals, amendments and all applications related to any of these
matters;
      (6)   To periodically review the provisions of this chapter to determine
whether revisions are needed, and to make recommendations on these matters to
the Zoning Board of Appeals;
      (7)   To provide information to the general public on matters related to
this chapter; and
      (8)   To perform such other duties as the Council may, from time to time,
prescribe.
(1960 Code, § 60-10-2) (Ord. 396, passed - -)
§ 162.492 INITIAL CERTIFICATES OF ZONING COMPLIANCE.
   Upon the effective date of this chapter, no lot shall be created, no land
shall be developed, no new use or structure shall be established or erected,
and no existing use or structure shall be enlarged, extended, altered,
relocated or reconstructed until an initial certificate of zoning compliance
has been issued. The Administrator shall not issue an initial certificate of
zoning compliance unless, following consultation with technically qualified
persons as necessary, he or she determines that the proposed work conforms to
the applicable provisions of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 60-10-3)
§ 162.493 APPLICATION.
   (A)   General. Every applicant for an initial certificate of zoning
compliance shall submit to the Administrator, in graphic and/or narrative form,
all the items of information listed below that are applicable to the particular
project. The Administrator shall decide which items are applicable.
   (B)   Items of information.
      (1)   Name and address of applicant;
      (2)   Name and address of the owner or operator of the proposed structure
or use, if different from division (B)(1) above;
      (3)   Nature of the proposed use, including type of activity, manner of
operation, number of occupants or employees and similar matters;
      (4)   Location of the proposed use or structure, and its relationship to
existing adjacent uses or structures;
      (5)   Area and dimensions of the site for the proposed structure or use;
      (6)   Existing topography of the site (U.S.G.S. ten-foot contour data is
acceptable), and proposed finished grade;
      (7)   Existing and proposed screening, landscaping and erosion control
features on the site, including the park area;
      (8)   Height and setbacks of the proposed structure;
      (9)   Number and size of proposed dwelling units, if any;
      (10)   Location and number of proposed parking/loading spaces and access
ways;
      (11)   Identification and location of all existing or proposed utilities,
whether public or private; and/or
      (12)   Any other pertinent information that the Administrator may
require.
(1960 Code, § 60-10-4)
§ 162.494 DURATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Initial certificates of zoning compliance shall be valid for one year,
or until revoked for failure to abide by a corrective action order.
   (B)   The Administrator may renew initial certificates of zoning compliance
for successive one-year periods upon written request; provided, the applicant
is making a good faith effort to complete the authorized work.
(1960 Code, § 60-10-5)
§ 162.495 RELATIONSHIP TO BUILDING PERMITS.
   Upon the effective date of this chapter, the Building Commissioner shall not
issue any building permit for the erection, enlargement, extension, alteration
or reconstruction of any structure unless the applicant for such permit
presents to the Commissioner a copy of the initial certificate of zoning
compliance pertaining to such work.
(1960 Code, § 60-10-6)
§ 162.496 FINAL CERTIFICATES OF ZONING COMPLIANCE.
   No lot or part thereof recorded or developed after the effective date of
this chapter, and no structure or use, or part thereof, that has been erected,
enlarged, altered, relocated or reconstructed after the effective date of this
chapter shall be used, occupied or put into operation until a final certificate
of zoning compliance has been issued. The Administrator shall not issue a final
certificate of zoning compliance until he or she has determined, by inspection
that the work authorized by the initial certificate of zoning compliance has
been completed in accordance with approved plans. Failure to obtain a final
certificate of zoning compliance shall constitute a separate violation of this
chapter.
(1960 Code, § 60-10-7)
§ 162.497 CORRECTIVE ACTION ORDERS.
   Whenever the Zoning Administrator finds, by inspection or otherwise, that
any lot, structure or use, or work thereon, is in violation of this chapter, he
or she shall so notify the responsible party, and shall order appropriate
corrective action.
(1960 Code, § 60-10-8)
§ 162.498 CONTENTS OF ORDER.
   The order to take corrective action shall be in writing and shall include:
   (A)   A description of the premises sufficient for identification;
   (B)   A statement indicating the nature of the violation;
   (C)   A statement of the remedial action necessary to effect compliance;
   (D)   The date by which the violation must be corrected;
   (E)   A statement that the alleged violator is entitled to a conference with
the Administrator if he or she so desires;
   (F)   The date by which an appeal of the corrective action order must be
filed, and a statement of the procedure for so filing; and
   (G)   A statement that failure to obey a corrective action order shall
result in revocation of the certificate of zoning compliance and may result in
the imposition of fines.
(1960 Code, § 60-10-9)
§ 162.499 SERVICE OF ORDER.
   A corrective action order shall be deemed properly served upon the owner,
occupant or operator of the offending lot, structure or use if it is:
   (A)   Served upon him or her personally;
   (B)   Sent by registered mail to his or her last known address; or
   (C)   Posted in a conspicuous place on or about the affected premises.
(1960 Code, § 60-10-10)
§ 162.500 STOP ORDERS.
   Whenever any work is being done in violation of an initial certificate of
zoning compliance, the Administrator’s corrective action order may state that
the violation must cease immediately. (See §
162.498 of this chapter.) In such case, the corrective action order is
equivalent to a stop order.
(1960 Code, § 60-10-11)
§ 162.501 EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, whenever the
Administrator determines that any violation of this chapter poses an imminent
peril to life or property, he or she may institute, without notice or hearing,
any necessary proceedings to alleviate the perilous condition.
(1960 Code, § 60-10-12)
§ 162.502 COMPLAINTS.
   Whenever any violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged to have
occurred, any person may file a written complaint on forms provided by the
Administrator. The Administrator shall record such complaints, immediately
investigate and, if necessary, institute appropriate corrective action.
(1960 Code, § 60-10-13)
§ 162.503 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   The following fees shall be charged by the city and paid in full to the
Administrator before permits are issued and hearings scheduled.
   (A)   Public hearing fees.
      (1)   A fee of $500 shall be paid for each application (i.e. special use,
use variances, amendments) that require a public hearing before the Zoning
Board of Appeals. A fee of $250 shall be paid for each application that
requires a public hearing for an area/bulk variance and appeals.
      (2)   In addition to the above flat fee, the applicant shall pay an
additional $10 for each abutting property owner that is required to receive
public notice of the zoning case. This fee shall be computed by the Zoning
Administrator and paid prior to the case being advertised.
   (B)   Letters of compliance. A fee of $25 shall be charged for requests of
“letters of compliance/certification” for zoning certificates, certificates of
non-conforming use, floodplain and the like.
   (C)   Manufactured homes. A fee of $150 shall be charged for permits to
locate a manufactured home (mobile home) on an individual lot.
   (D)   Home occupations. A fee of $50 shall be charged for a home occupation
permit as required per §
162.394 of this chapter.
   (E)   Zoning verification packets. A fee of $150 plus $25 per hour research
fee.
(1960 Code, § 60-10-15) (Ord. 7537, passed 10-3-2011; Ord. 9115-2022, passed
12-19-2022; Ord. 9351- 2024, passed 12-2-2024)
§ 162.504 SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this section to regulate
the safe, orderly and attractive development of single- and two-family homes,
townhouses, rowhouses and condominiums, multi-family, commercial and industrial
land uses within the city, to conserve and enhance property values, to preserve
adequate space for vehicular and transportation facilities usually associated
with such uses and to provide for effective traffic movement without congestion
and hazards and to provide for effective storm water management and control. It
is the purpose of this section to assure that public utilities and services are
provided in a safe and healthful manner, consistent with applicable regulations
and standards. It is the further purpose of the section to recognize, in the
planning for and of specific land uses, the densities and uses of adjacent land
and the health, safety, morals, appearance and general welfare of the
community. In order to achieve the aforementioned objectives, and to encourage
imaginative use of land areas, certain modifications of the strict adherence of
these requirements are provided for where deemed by the City Council, after
seeking the recommendation of the city's Plan Commission and Zoning Board of
Appeals, to be in the public interest.
   (B)   Any person, corporation, firm or other organization or association
filing a zoning petition seeking any authorization under this chapter, or any
person, corporation, firm or other organization or association making
application for a building permit, shall submit to the Director of Economic
Development and Planning and the City Engineer for review and approval a site
plan prepared by a registered architect, registered professional engineer or a
licensed land surveyor licensed in the state to practice as such. The Director
of Economic Development and Planning and the City Engineer may accept a
preliminary plat as a substitute for the site plan required hereunder. The
Planning Commission shall review and make recommendations to the City Council
plans where one or more buildings are to be erected on a single lot except as
follows:
      (1)   Single-family detached or two-family residential dwellings,
including associated garages.
      (2)   Non-residential accesory buildings.
      (3)   Additions to existing non-residential buildings where the addition
is less than 10% of the existing building's gross floor area, the addition does
not exceed 5,000 square feet, no new curb cuts are required and where new
construction does not reduce existing parking.
      (4)   Improvements which require changes to site topography which do not
constitute a substantive change as determined by the Director.
      (5)   Except as exempted above, the Planning Commission shall review the
site plan and recommend it be considered by City Council.
   (C)   Site plan specifications. The following required information shall be
placed on the site plan or on a separate sheet accompanying the plan:
      (1)   Site plan application;
      (2)   Present record owner of the tract;
      (3)   Location map showing the location of the property reference to
government survey section lines and major streets, north arrow and engineer's
scale;
      (4)   Location of all existing and proposed buildings, structures,
utilities, drives, approaches, parking and other prominent physical features on
the site;
      (5)   Boundary of the entire tract by courses and distances and adjacent
streets, alleys, drainage facilities and public utilities;
      (6)   Area of tract;
      (7)   Zoning of the tract, subdivision name, lot number, and zoning of
adjacent parcels where different than site;
      (8)   All zoning setback requirements and sight lines;
      (9)   Name, address, telephone number of person or firm submitting the
plan;
      (10)   Seal of architect, engineer or land surveyor preparing the site
plan;
      (11)   Proposed use of the building and its construction type and
distance from adjacent property lines;
      (12)   Size in square feet, and use for each building, including the
height(s) of each building;
      (13)   Off-street parking calculation table including number, those
designated for the handicapped;
      (14)   Width and layout, including elevations, of all streets, alleys and
public rights-of-way adjoining the tract;
      (15)   Existing and proposed storm water runoff patterns and flows
including calculations of flow and adequacy of receiving storm water gathering
facilities to accommodate calculated increase of rate of runoff without adverse
effect;
      (16)   Location of existing public utility easements and facilities,
proposed public utility easements and facilities and their dimensions as may be
required;
      (17)   Layout, arrangement and specifications for paving and base, off-
street parking spaces, aisles and drives, pedestrian walks and walkways,
drainage, lighting, signs and traffic control, safety islands, parking bumpers,
curbs and gutters, fencing and screening and landscaping. Dimensional
requirements for stall widths and depths, aisle widths, drive widths, radii,
sidewalks and walkways, sight lines, setback and the like shall conform with
regulations of the chapter;
      (18)   Layout, location and dimensional arrangement of poles, fire
hydrants, Siamese connections, water valves, catch basins, underground piping
and conduits, lighting fixture standards, retaining walls, pump islands, signs,
doorways, window wells, waste receptacles or areas, guy wires, storage sheds or
areas, fencing and any other structure, facility or feature that might
interfere with the safe and orderly movement of motor vehicles and/or
pedestrians;
      (19)   The locations, size, layout and type of entrances and driveways;
      (20)   Location and width of all sidewalks, crosswalks and safety islands
and conformance with the ANSI Standard A 117.1 for making facilities accessible
to, and usable by the physically handicapped (AAA minimum standards);
      (21)   Fencing, screening, and/or walls to be erected; specifications,
locations, dimensions, height;
      (22)   Topography, existing and proposed, indicating area of excavation,
backfill and grading, slopes to be maintained and earth work specifications;
      (23)   Disposition of storm water runoff from buildings, paved areas, and
ground surfaces and indicating surface grades and elevations, catch basins,
underground storm drains and their grades and elevations outfalls, headwalls,
and specifications and drainage calculations;
      (24)   All public utilities and their easements indicating sizes, lines,
grades and types/ specifications all conforming to the appropriate city codes;
      (25)   Existing and proposed landscape planting, clearly identified,
showing locations, type and size;
      (26)   All site plans for staff review shall be drawn to an appropriate
scale on a sheet or sheets whose dimensions do not exceed 24 inches by 32
inches; a sufficient number 11x17 and electronic copies for Planning Commission
and City Council shall also be provided;
      (27)   Architectural elevations to appropriate scale;
      (28)   Site plans for residential lots in zoning classifications can be
exempted from the requirement for preparation under a professional seal, but
they shall be suitable for the purpose intended and as determined by the
Director of Economic Development ancl Planning; and
      (29)   Approval of City Council-approved site plans shall be null and
void unless recorded within 30 days of approval, unless a written request for
extension of time is submitted and approved.
   (D)   Site plan to conform with city codes. All features and elements of the
site plan required by this section shall in all respects conform to all
applicable provisions of the codes and ordinances of the city.
   (E)   Refuse disposal enclosures. All refuse, grease containers and
compacting equipment shall be stored within a designated refuse enclosure. The
container lids shall be kept closed at all times. The enclosure shall be used
strictly for the confinement of refuse, grease containers and compacting
equipment and shall not be used for the outside storage of any other materials
or equipment. The gate shall be maintained in the closed position, except when
the enclosure contents are removed and replaced. Maintenance of the enclosure
shall be the responsibility of the owner of the property. All new disposal
enclosures shall require a permit. Disposal enclosures shall be required for
all multi-family residential buildings containing four or more dwelling units,
all buildings in the commercial districts and all buildings in the industrial
districts. Said enclosures shall be required for only new construction and for
properties on which the building size has been increased by 50%. In the event
that three citations are issued for a nuisance for any dumpster, within any
one-year period, the owner of the property on which the dumpster is located
shall comply with the requirement set forth in this division (E) within one
year of the date of the citation was issued.
      (1)   Enclosure specifications.
         (a)   A site plan prepared in accordance with the provisions outlined
herein, as well as enclosure plans and specifications and a building permit
application shall be required to be approved before the construction of a new
disposal enclosure.
         (b)   All enclosures shall screen from view on three sides all refuse
disposal areas. Construction of the enclosure shall be of low-maintenance
sight-proof materials such as a solid commercial grade wood, composite wood,
stone, brick, vinyl or other approved material as determined by the Building
Commissioner or his or her designee. The materials of which the enclosure is
constructed shall conform to the primary building materials of the principal
building on the lot. The materials of which the enclosure is constructed shall
conform to the primary building materials of the principal building on the lot.
         (c)   On the fourth side a gate shall be constructed so that all
containers may easily be removed and replaced when emptied. The gate shall be
secured with a post that inserts into a pipe embedded into the pavement to
ensure the gate's stability and proper placement when closing. The gate shall
be constructed of low maintenance sight proof materials such as vinyl,
composite wood, chain link vinyl/composite wood slats added to effectively
screen the dumpster.
         (d)   The enclosure walls shall not exceed seven feet, nor be less
than six feet in height. The minimum size and/or minimum number of refuse
enclosures shall be sufficient to hold all refuse and recycling containers of
two cubic yards in volume or more, and grease containers of any size.
         (e)   There shall be three four-inch concrete bollards, minimum 36
inches in height placed inside the back wall of the enclosure to ensure that
the enclosure is not damaged by the placement of the dumpster too near the
wall.
         (f)   There shall be four latch-pin receivers located so that the gate
is able to be held in the open and closed position.
         (g)   The enclosure shall be constructed on a concrete pad four inches
thick and large enough to extend six feet beyond the enclosure to allow the
wheels of the collection vehicle to rest upon a stable surface for service
which shall be a minimum of six inches thick concrete and to prevent damage to
the lot.
         (h)   The minimum access required shall be the amount of road area
needed for a standard size disposal truck to gain access to and from the
disposal area.
         (i)   Any existing enclosure that becomes damaged to an extent
determined by the Building Commissioner or his or her designee must be replaced
in conformance with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Food waste. Dumpsters, trash receptacles and other containers
utilized for food waste shall be emptied twice weekly cleaned (sanitized and
deodorized) regularly. Odor complaints shall be handled as a nuisance under §
93.002 of this Code.
      (3)   Commercial establishments. Roll-off trash or compactor type trash
receptacles may be utilized for commercial establishments within strip or
shopping center developments and shall be placed within service areas of the
property that are restricted to delivery and service vehicle traffic. Such
containers shall not be required to be enclosed. However, they shall be
visually screened at grade from adjoining properties utilizing materials, such
as a densely planted hedge, berm complete with landscape plantings or screening
wall.
      (4)   Construction. Roll-off trash receptacles or dumpsters utilized
during active construction or demolition of structures and which are limited to
the duration of the project shall be exempt from enclosure/screening
requirements.
      (5)   Size. Enclosures shall be of adequate size to allow for removal and
replacement of refuse containers by a trash hauler.
      (6)   Location. The enclosures shall not be located in any front yard or
public right-of-way or obscure visibility of vehicles entering or exiting the
subject property or immediately adjacent property. Dumpsters located on a
corner lot shall be placed behind the building line of subject property and the
immediate adjacent property.
      (7)   Maintenance. Enclosures shall be maintained and structurally sound,
free of deterioration and shall be kept in a sanitary condition so as not to
pose a threat to the health and safety of the public. Any enclosure surface or
screening component that is damaged, deteriorated, decaying, disintegrating or
which has otherwise lost its capability to effectively enclose/screen shall be
replaced or repaired.
(1960 Code, § 60-10-16) (Ord. 6138, passed 5-1-2000; Ord. 7174, passed 8-18-
2008; Ord. 7200, passed 11-3-2008; Ord. 7527, passed 10-3-2011; Ord. 8039-2017,
passed 4-3-2017; Ord. 9124-223, passed 2-6-2023) Penalty, see §
162.999
SPECIAL USE PERMITS
§ 162.515 SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   This chapter divides the city into various districts, and permits in each
district as a matter of right only those uses which are clearly compatible with
one another. Certain other uses, because of their special operational or
physical characteristics, may or may not have a detrimental impact on nearby
permitted uses, depending upon their precise location, manner of operation and
other factors. Such special uses require careful case-by-case review, and may
be allowed only by permission of the Council. Any special use permit approved
expires in one year unless substantial development (in excess of 80%) has been
completed.
(1960 Code, § 60-11-1) (Ord. 6338, passed 10-1-2001)
§ 162.516 APPLICATION.
   (A)   General. Every applicant for a special use permit shall submit to the
Administrator, in narrative and/or graphic form, the items of information
enumerated below. The Administrator shall prepare an advisory report on every
request for a special use permit. He or she shall promptly transmit the
completed application and his or her advisory report to the Zoning Board of
Appeals.
   (B)   Items of information.
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Name and address of the owner or operator of the proposed structure
or use, if different from divisions (B)(1) above;
      (3)   Nature of the proposed use, including type of activity, manner of
operation, number of occupants or employees and similar matters;
      (4)   Location of the proposed use or structure, and its relationship to
existing adjacent uses or structures;
      (5)   Area and dimensions of the site for the proposed structure or uses;
      (6)   Existing topography of the site (U.S.G.S. ten-foot contour data is
acceptable), and proposed finished grade;
      (7)   Existing and proposed screening, landscaping and erosion-control
features on the site, including the parking area;
      (8)   Height and setbacks of the proposed structure;
      (9)   Number and size of proposed dwelling units, if any;
      (10)   Location and number of proposed parking/loading spaces and access
ways;
      (11)   Identification and location of all existing or proposed utilities,
whether public or private; and/or
      (12)   Any other pertinent information that the Administrator may
require.
(1960 Code, § 60-11-2)
§ 162.517 PUBLIC HEARING, NOTICE.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hold a public hearing on every special use
permit application within a reasonable time after said application is submitted
to it. At the hearing, any interested party may appear and testify, either in
person or by duly-authorized agent or attorney. Notice indicating the time,
date and place of the hearing and the nature of the proposed special use shall
be given not more than 30, nor less than 15, days before the hearing:
   (A)   By registered mail to the applicant and to all parties whose property
abuts the proposed special use;
   (B)   By publication in a newspaper published within the city; and
   (C)   By placement of a temporary sign on the subject property and the
property owner shall grant authorization for said placement.
(1960 Code, § 60-11-3) (Ord. 7537, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 162.518 ADVISORY REPORT, FACTORS CONSIDERED.
   (A)   Within a reasonable time after the public hearing, the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall submit its advisory report to the Council.
   (B)   In deciding what its advice should be, the Zoning Board of Appeals
shall consider the following factors:
      (1)   Whether the proposed design, location and manner of operation of
the proposed special use will adequately protect the public health, safety and
welfare, and the physical environment;
      (2)   Whether the proposed special use is consistent with the city’s
Comprehensive Plan;
      (3)   The effect the proposed special use would have on the value of
neighboring property and on the city’s overall tax base;
      (4)   The effect the proposed special use would have on public utilities
and on traffic circulation on nearby streets; and
      (5)   Whether there are any facilities near the proposed special use
(such as schools or hospitals) that require special protection.
(1960 Code, § 60-11-4)
§ 162.519 ACTION BY COUNCIL.
   The Council shall act on every request for a special use permit at its next
regularly scheduled meeting following submission of the Zoning Board of Appeals
advisory report. Without further public hearing, the Council may approve or
disapprove a special use permit by an ordinance passed by simple majority vote
of all members than holding office. In a separate statement accompanying any
such ordinance, the Council shall state its findings of fact, and indicate its
reasons for approving (with or without conditions) or denying the request for a
special use permit.
(1960 Code, § 60-11-5)
§ 162.520 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Withdrawal of application. A petitioner may withdraw an application at
any time prior to a final decision being rendered by the City Council. Such
withdrawal shall not prohibit petitioner from being able to refile such
application, but any such refiling shall be treated as an entirely new filing
and shall be subject to all applicable procedures and fees within the city code
in the same manner as any other new application.
   (B)   Repeated application. Where an application for a special use permit
has been filed by or on behalf of the owner or owners of the property affected,
no subsequent application requesting substantially the same relief, as
determined by the city, shall be filed as to the same property within a period
of six months following final action by the City Council subject to all
applicable fees.
(1960 Code, § 60-11-6) (Ord. 7215, passed 1-5-2009)
BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 162.535 BOARD OF APPEALS ESTABLISHED.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals of the city is established in accordance with
state law.
(1960 Code, § 60-12-1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-13-3
§ 162.536 MEMBERSHIP, APPOINTMENT, COMPENSATION.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall consist of seven members, all of whom
shall reside within the city. Each Board member shall be appointed by the
Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council. One of the members so
appointed shall be named as Chairperson at the time of his or her appointment.
Each Board member shall serve without compensation.
(1960 Code, § 60-12-2)
§ 162.537 TERM OF OFFICE, VACANCIES.
   (A)   Every member of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall hold office for five
years from the date of his or her appointment and until his or her successor
has been selected and qualified.
   (B)   (1)   With the advice and consent of the City Council, the Mayor may
remove any member of the Board of Zoning Appeals for cause, after a public
hearing.
      (2)   Vacancies on the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be filled for the
unexpired term of the member whose place has become vacant in the same manner
as provided for the appointment of new members.
(1960 Code, § 60-12-3)
§ 162.538 MEETINGS, QUORUM.
   All meetings of the Board of Appeals shall be held at the call of the
Chairperson and at such times as the Board may determine. All Board meetings
shall be open to the public. The Board may adopt their own rules of meeting
procedures consistent with this chapter and the applicable state statutes. The
Board may select such officers as it deem necessary. The Chairperson or, in his
or her absence, the Acting Chairperson may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. Four members of the Board shall constitute a quorum,
and the affirmative vote of at least four members shall be necessary to
authorize any Board action.
(1960 Code, § 60-12-4)
§ 162.539 RECORDS.
   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings and examinations. These
minutes shall indicate the absence of any member, the vote of abstention of
each member on each question and any official action taken. A copy of every
rule, variance, order or decision of the Board shall be filed immediately in
the Board’s office and shall be a public record.
(1960 Code, § 60-12-5)
APPEALS
§ 162.550 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by any decision or order of the Zoning Administrator in
any matter related to the interpretation or enforcement of any provision of
this chapter may appeal to the Zoning Board of Appeals. Every such appeal shall
be made and treated in accordance with state law (65 ILCS 5/11-13-12) and the
provisions of this section.
(1960 Code, § 60-12-7)
§ 162.551 FILING, RECORD TRANSMITTAL.
   (A)   Every appeal shall be made within 15 days of the matter complained of
by filing with the Administrator and the Board of Appeals, a written notice
specifying the grounds for appeal.
   (B)   Not more than five working days after the notice of appeal has been
filed, the Administrator shall transmit to the Board of Appeals all records
pertinent to the case.
(1960 Code, § 60-12-8)
§ 162.552 STAY OF FURTHER PROCEEDINGS.
   An appeal stays all further action on the matter being appealed unless the
Administrator certifies to the Board, after the notice of appeal has been filed
with him or her, that for reasons stated in the certificate, a stay would cause
imminent peril to life or property. In such case, further action shall not be
stayed unless the Board or the circuit court grants a restraining order for due
cause, and so notifies the Administrator.
(1960 Code, § 60-12-9)
§ 162.553 PUBLIC HEARING, NOTICE.
   (A)   The Board of Appeals shall hold a public hearing on every appeal
within a reasonable time after the filing of the appeal notice. At the hearing,
any interested party may appear and testify, either in person or by duly-
authorized agent or attorney.
   (B)   Notice indicating the time, date and place of the hearing, and briefly
describing the issue to be decided shall be given not more than 30, nor less
than 15, days before the hearing:
      (1)   By registered mail to all parties whose property abuts the property
affected by the appeal;
      (2)   By publication in a newspaper published within the city; and
      (3)   By placement of a temporary sign on the subject property and the
property owner shall grant authorization for said placement.
(1960 Code, § 60-12-10) (Ord. 7537, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 162.554 ADVISORY REPORT, FINDINGS OF FACT.
   Within a reasonable time after the public hearing, the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall submit its advisory report to the Council. The report shall state
the Board of Appeals’ recommendations regarding the appeal.
(1960 Code, § 60-12-11)
§ 162.555 ACTION BY COUNCIL.
   The Council shall act on every appeal at its next regularly scheduled
meeting following submission of the Board of Appeals advisory report. Without
further public hearing, the Council may approve or deny the appeal by simple
majority vote of all the members then holding office.
(1960 Code, § 60-12-12)
VARIANCES
§ 162.570 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purposes of this chapter, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      VARIANCE. A relaxation of the requirements of this chapter that are
applicable to a particular lot, structure, or use. A so-called use variance
(which would allow a use that is neither permitted nor special in the district
in question) is not a variance; it is an amendment, and may be granted only as
provided for in §
162.574 of this chapter. No use or area/bulk variance shall be granted if it is
in conflict with the standards of division (B) below. Any area/bulk or use
variance approved expires in one year unless substantial development (in excess
of 80%) has been completed.
   (B)   The City Council shall not grant a variance unless it shall, in each
case, make specific written findings based upon the particular evidence
presented to it that supports the following conclusions:
      (1)   The variance requested arises from a condition which is unique to
the property in question and which is not ordinarily found in the same zoning
district, and is not created by an action or actions of the property owner or
the applicant;
      (2)   The strict application of the provisions of this chapter, from
which a variance is requested will constitute unnecessary hardship upon the
property owner represented in the application;
      (3)   The variance requested will not adversely affect the adjacent
properties or public health, safety, order, convenience or general welfare of
the community;
      (4)   The variance granted does not allow for the establishment of a
defined use identified within other underlying zoning districts;
      (5)   Granting the variance desired will not violate the general spirit
and intent of this chapter.
   (C)   Except as specifically provided otherwise elsewhere in this chapter, a
minor variance maybe administratively granted by the Zoning Administrator
subject to the following conclusions:
      (1)   The minor variance requested arises from a condition which is
unique to the property in question and which is not ordinarily found in the
same zoning district, and is not created by an action or actions of the
property owner or the applicant. An exception to the action of the property
owner provision shall apply to the minimum dwelling unit requirements;
      (2)   The strict application of the provisions of this chapter, from
which a minor variance is requested will constitute unnecessary hardship upon
the property owner represented in the application;
      (3)   The minor variance requested will not adversely affect the adjacent
properties or public health, safety, order, convenience or general welfare of
the community;
      (4)   Granting the minor variance desired will not violate the general
spirit and intent of this chapter.
(1960 Code, § 60-12-14) (Ord. 6338, passed 10-1-2001; Ord. 9056-2022, passed 5-
16-2022; Ord. 9313-2024, passed 9-3-2024)
§ 162.571 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every application for a variance shall be filed with the Administrator
on a prescribed form. The Administrator shall promptly transmit said
application, together with any advice he or she might wish to offer, to the
Board of Appeals.
   (B)   The application shall contain sufficient information to allow the
Board to make an informed decision and shall include, at a minimum, the
following:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Brief description of the variance requested;
      (3)   Location of the structure use for which the variance is sought;
      (4)   Relationship of said structure/use to existing structures/uses on
adjacent lots;
      (5)   Specific section(s) of this chapter containing the regulations
which, if strictly applied, would cause a serious problem; and
      (6)   Any other pertinent information that the Administrator may require.
(1960 Code, § 60-12-15)
§ 162.572 PUBLIC HEARING, NOTICE.
   (A)   The Board of Appeals shall hold a public hearing on each variance
request within a reasonable time after the variance application is submitted to
it. At the hearing, any interested party may appear and testify, either in
person or by duly-authorized agent or attorney.
   (B)   Notice indicating the time, date and place of the hearing and the
nature of the proposed variance shall be given not more than 30, nor less than
15, days before the hearing:
      (1)   By registered mail to the applicant and to all parties whose
property abuts the property on which the proposed variance is located;
      (2)   By publication in a newspaper published within the city; and
      (3)   By placement of a temporary sign on the subject property and the
property owner shall grant authorization for said placement.
(1960 Code, § 60-12-16) (Ord. 7537, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 162.573 ADVISORY REPORT, FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   Within a reasonable time after the public hearing, the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall submit its advisory report to the Council. The report shall state
the Board of Appeals’ recommendations regarding the proposed variance.
   (B)   The Board of Appeals shall not recommend any variance unless, based
upon the evidence presented to it, it determine that:
      (1)   The proposed variance is consistent with the general purposes of
this chapter (see §
162.001 of this chapter);
      (2)   Strict application of the district requirements would result in
great practical difficulties or hardship to the applicant, and prevent a
reasonable return on the property;
      (3)   The proposed variance is the minimum deviation from such
requirements that will alleviate the difficulties/hardship, and allow a
reasonable return on the property;
      (4)   The plight of the applicant is due to peculiar circumstances not of
his or her own making;
      (5)   The peculiar circumstances engendering the variance request are not
applicable to other property within the district and, therefore, that a
variance would be a more appropriate remedy than an amendment (rezoning); and
      (6)   The variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character of
the area where the premises in question are located, nor materially frustrate
implementation of the city’s Comprehensive Plan.
(1960 Code, § 60-12-17)
§ 162.574 ACTION BY COUNCIL.
   The Council shall act on every proposed variance at its next regularly
scheduled meeting following submission of the Board of Appeals’ advisory
report. Without further public hearing, the Council may approve or disapprove
any proposed variance by simple majority vote of all the members then holding
office.
(1960 Code, § 60-12-18)
§ 162.575 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Withdrawal of application. A petitioner may withdraw an application at
any time prior to a final decision being rendered by the City Council. Such
withdrawal shall not prohibit petitioner from being able to refile such
application, but any such refiling shall be treated as an entirely new filing
and shall be subject to all applicable procedures and fees within the city code
in the same manner as any other new application.
   (B)   Repeated application. Where an application for a variance has been
filed by or on behalf of the owner or owners of the property affected, no
subsequent application requesting substantially the same relief, as determined
by the city, shall be filed as to the same property within a period of six
months following final action by the City Council subject to all applicable
fees.
(1960 Code, § 60-12-19) (Ord. 7215, passed 1-5-2009)
AMENDMENTS
§ 162.590 AMENDMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Council may amend this chapter in accordance with state law (65
ILCS 5/11-13-14) and the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Proposed alterations of district boundaries or proposed changes in the
status of uses (permitted, special, prohibited) shall be deemed proposed
amendments.
   (C)   Amendments may be proposed by the Council, the Administrator, the
Board of Appeals, the Planning Commission or any party in interest.
(1960 Code, § 60-12-20)
§ 162.591 FILING.
   Every proposal to amend this chapter shall be filed with the Administrator
on a prescribed form. The Administrator shall promptly transmit said proposal,
together with any comments or recommendation he or she may wish to make, to the
Board of Appeals for a public hearing.
(1960 Code, § 60-12-21)
§ 162.592 PUBLIC HEARING, NOTICE.
   (A)   The Board of Appeals shall hold a public hearing on every amendment
proposal within a reasonable time after said proposal has been submitted to it.
At the hearing, any interested party may appear and testify, either in person
or by duly-authorized agent or attorney.
   (B)   Notice indicating the time, date and place of the hearing, and the
nature of the proposed amendment shall be given not more than 30, nor less than
15, days before the hearing:
      (1)   By publication in a newspaper published within the city;
      (2)   When the amendment involves a rezoning, not a text amendment, by
registered mail to all parties whose property abuts the property for which
rezoning is requested; and
      (3)   By placement of a temporary sign on the subject property and the
property owner shall grant authorization for said placement.
(1960 Code, § 60-12-22) (Ord. 7537, passed 10-3-2011)
§ 162.593 ADVISORY REPORT, FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   Within a reasonable time after the public hearing, the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall submit its advisory report to the Council. The report shall state
the Board of Appeals’ recommendations regarding adoption of the proposed
amendment and its reasons therefor.
   (B)   If the effect of the proposed amendment would be to alter district
boundaries or to change the status of any use, the Board of Appeals shall
include in its advisory report findings of fact concerning each of the
following matters:
      (1)   Existing use(s) and zoning of the property in question;
      (2)   Existing use(s) and zoning of other lots in the vicinity of the
property in question;
      (3)   Suitability of the property in question for uses already permitted
under existing regulations;
      (4)   Suitability of the property in question for the proposed use;
      (5)   The trend of development in the vicinity of the property in
question, including changes (if any) which may have occurred since the property
was initially zoned or last rezoned; and
      (6)   The effect the proposed rezoning would have on implementation of
the city’s Comprehensive Plan.
(1960 Code, § 60-12-23)
§ 162.594 ACTION BY COUNCIL.
   (A)   (1)   The Council shall act on every proposed amendment at its next
regularly scheduled meeting following submission of the Board of Appeals’
advisory report.
      (2)   Without further public hearing, the Council may pass any proposed
amendment or may refer it back to the Board of Appeals for further
consideration, by simple majority vote of all the members then holding office.
   (B)   Exception: the favorable vote of at least two-thirds of all the
members of the Council is required to pass an amendment to this chapter when
the proposed amendment is opposed, in writing, by the owners of 20% of the
frontage proposed to be altered, or by owners of 20% of the frontage
immediately adjoining or across an alley therefrom, or by the owners of 20% of
the frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to be altered.
(1960 Code, § 60-12-24)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-13-14
§ 162.595 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Withdrawal of application. A Petitioner may withdraw an application at
any time prior to a final decision being rendered by the City Council. Such
withdrawal shall not prohibit petitioner from being able to refile such
application, but any such refiling shall be treated as an entirely new filing
and shall be subject to all applicable procedures and fees within the city code
in the same manner as any other new application.
   (B)   Repeated application. Where an application for an amendment has been
filed by or on behalf of the owner or owners of the property affected, no
subsequent application requesting substantially the same relief, as determined
by the city, shall be filed as to the same property within a period of six
months following final action by the City Council subject to all applicable
fees.
(1960 Code, § 60-12-25) (Ord. 7215, passed 1-5-2009)
§ 162.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined not less than $250, nor
more than $1,000, plus costs, for each offense. For the second offense of
conviction of any provision of this chapter, the person shall be fined $500,
for a third offense the fine shall be $750 and for a fourth offense the fine
shall be $1,000. Each day said violation continues shall be deemed a separate
and distinct offense. As a part of the judgment, the defendant must comply with
all applicable codes and ordinances relating to the property which is the
subject of the violation.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this section shall prevent the city from taking
any other lawful action that may be necessary to secure compliance with this
chapter.
(1960 Code, § 60-10-14) (Ord. 7102, passed 4-8-2008)
CHAPTER 163: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
Section
   
163.01   Purpose and scope
   
163.02   Definitions
   
163.03   Regulation of small wireless facilities
   
163.04   Dispute resolution
   
163.05   Indemnification
   
163.06   Insurance
§ 163.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the city’s jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the city exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Illinois Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act (Act) (50 ILCS 840/1 et seq.).
   (B)   Conflicts with other ordinances. This chapter supersedes all
ordinances or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict
herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
   (C)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws
or regulations.
(Ord. 8213-2018, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 163.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing, or
mechanical codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local
amendments to those codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
   APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant to the city for a permit to
collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Cable service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(6), as
amended; information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(33), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
522(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
153(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153
(51), as amended; or a wireless provider.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FEE. A one-time charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT or HISTORIC LANDMARK. A building, property, or site, or
group of buildings, properties, or sites that are either:
      (1)   Listed in the National Register of Historic Places or formally
determined eligible for listing by the Keeper of the National Register, the
individual who has been delegated the authority by the federal agency to list
properties and determine their eligibility for the National Register, in
accordance with Section VI.D.I.a.i through Section VI.D.I. a.v of the
Nationwide Programmatic Agreement codified at 47 CFR Part 1, Appendix C; or
      (2)   Designated as a locally landmarked building, property, site, or
historic district by an ordinance adopted by the City pursuant to a
preservation program that meets the requirements of the Certified Local
Government Program of the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office or where
such certification of the preservation program by the Illinois State Historic
Preservation Office is pending.
   LAW. A federal or state statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order,
or local ordinance or resolution.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height
and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE. A utility pole owned or operated by the city in
public rights-of-way.
   PERMIT. A written authorization required by the city to perform an action or
initiate, continue, or complete a project.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. The functional division of the federal government, the
state, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this state, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
   RATE. A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible
use. RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include city-owned aerial lines.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY.
      (1)   A wireless facility that meets both of the following
qualifications:
         (a)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an imaginary
enclosure of no more than six cubic feet; and
         (b)   All other wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole
associated with the facility is cumulatively no more than 25 cubic feet in
volume.
      (2)   The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not
included in the calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment
elements, telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures,
grounding equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable
runs for the connection of power and other services.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part
by a communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control, or a similar function.
   WIRELESS FACILITY.
      (1)   Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless communications
between user equipment and a communications network, including:
         (a)   Equipment associated with wireless communications; and
         (b)   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable,
regular and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of
technological configuration.
      (2)   WIRELESS FACILITY includes small wireless facilities.
      (3)   WIRELESS FACILITY does not include:
         (a)   The structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or
         (b)   Wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber optic cable that
is between wireless support structures or utility poles or coaxial, or fiber
optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or directly
associated with an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the state that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the city.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
(Ord. 8213-2018, passed 7-16-2018)
§ 163.03 REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Permitted use. Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
division (C)(9) below regarding height exceptions or variances, but not subject
to zoning review or approval if they are collocated (i) in rights-of-way in any
zoning district, or (ii) outside rights-of-way in property zoned exclusively
for commercial or industrial use.
   (B)   Permit required. An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from
the city to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be
received and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following
conditions and requirements:
      (1)   Application requirements. A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the city, together with the city’s small cell
facilities permit application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
         (a)   Site specific structural integrity and, for a municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
         (b)   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
         (c)   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer,
as that term is defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act
of 1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application
as it is proposed to be installed;
         (d)   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         (e)   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
         (f)   Certification that the collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant’s
knowledge.
         (g)   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the city, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of
the consent of the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      (2)   Application process. The city shall process applications as
follows:
         (a)   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
         (b)   1.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or replacement of an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the city fails to
approve or deny the application within 90 days after the submission of a
completed application.
            2.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the city in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than 75
days after the submission of a completed application.
            3.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the
ninetieth day after submission of the complete application or the tenth day
after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the city. The receipt of the
deemed approved notice shall not preclude the city’s denial of the permit
request within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
         (c)   1.   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the city fails to approve or
deny the application within 120 days after the submission of a completed
application.
            2.   However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the city in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than
105 days after the submission of a completed application.
            3.   The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the one
hundred twentieth day after submission of the complete application or the tenth
day after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the city. The receipt of
the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the city’s denial of the permit
request within the time limits as provided under this chapter.
         (d)   1.   The city shall deny an application which does not meet the
requirements of this chapter.
            2.   If the city determines that applicable codes, ordinances or
regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and
conditions contained herein require that the utility pole or wireless support
structure be replaced before the requested collocation, approval shall be
conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or wireless support
structure at the cost of the provider.
            3.   The city shall document the basis for a denial, including the
specific code provisions or application conditions on which the denial is
based, and send the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the
city denies an application.
            4.   The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the city
and resubmit the revised application once within 30 days after notice of denial
is sent to the applicant without paying an additional application fee. The city
shall approve or deny the revised application within 30 days after the
applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure to
resubmit the revised application within 30 days of denial shall require the
application to submit a new application with applicable fees, and
recommencement of the city’ s review period.
            5.   The applicant must notify the city in writing of its intention
to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, which may be
submitted with the revised application.
            6.   Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the
deficiencies cited in the denial. However, this revised application does not
apply if the cure requires the review of a new location, new or different
structure to be collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment
associated with the small wireless facility.
         (e)   Within 30 days after an approved permit to collocate a small
wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the city and the applicant shall
enter into a master pole attachment agreement, provided by the city for the
initial collocation on a municipal utility pole by the application. For
subsequent approved permits to collocate on a small wireless facility on a
municipal utility pole, the city and the applicant shall enter into a license
supplement of the master pole attachment agreement.
      (3)   Completeness of application.
         (a)   Within 30 days after receiving an application, the city shall
determine whether the application is complete and notify the applicant. If an
application is incomplete, the city must specifically identify the missing
information. An application shall be deemed complete if the city fails to
provide notification to the applicant within 30 days after all documents,
information and fees specifically enumerated in the city’s permit application
form are submitted by the applicant to the city.
         (b)   Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the city sends the
notice of incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing
information.
      (4)   Tolling. The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
         (a)   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the city;
or
         (b)   A local, state or federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
      (5)   Consolidated applications.
         (a)   An applicant seeking to collocate small wireless facilities
within the jurisdiction of the city shall be allowed, at the applicant’s
discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a single permit for
the collocation of up to 25 small wireless facilities if the collocations each
involve substantially the same type of small wireless facility and
substantially the same type of structure.
         (b)   If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities,
the city may remove small wireless facility collocations from the application
and treat separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The city may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
      (6)   Duration of permits.
         (a)   The duration of a permit shall be for a period of not less than
five years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent durations unless the
city makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or the new or modified
utility pole do not comply with the applicable city codes or any provision,
condition or requirement contained in this chapter.
         (b)   If the Act is repealed as provided in Section 90 therein,
renewals of permits shall be subject to the applicable city code provisions or
regulations in effect at the time of renewal.
      (7)   Means of submitting applications. Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the city by personal
delivery at the city’ s designated place of business, by regular mail
postmarked on the date due or by any other commonly used means, including
electronic mail.
   (C)   Collocation requirements and conditions.
      (1)   Public safety space reservation. The city may reserve space on
municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the city’s electric
utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the city reasonably determines
that the municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
      (2)   Installation and maintenance. The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
chapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contracts that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
      (3)   No interference with public safety communication frequencies.
         (a)   The wireless provider’s operation of the small wireless
facilities shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety
agency for public safety communications.
         (b)   A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of
the type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a
public safety agency’s communications equipment.
         (c)   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC’s regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency.
         (d)   If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the
wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by the
public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy
the interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR
90.675.
         (e)   The city may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility
based on such interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with
the Code of Federal Regulations cited in division (C)(3)(d) above. Failure to
remedy the interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
      (4)   (a)   The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless
facilities on city utility poles that are part of an electric distribution or
transmission system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole or
the electric supply zone of the pole.
         (b)   However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless
facility may be located in the communications space on the city utility pole
and on the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless
provider complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
         (c)   For purposes of this division (C)(4), the terms “communications
space”, “communication worker safety zone”, and “electric supply zone” have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
      (5)   The wireless provider shall comply with all applicable codes and
local code provisions or regulations that concern public safety.
      (6)   The wireless provider shall comply with written design standards
that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or reasonable
stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements that are set forth in a city
ordinance, written policy adopted by the city, a comprehensive plan or other
written design plan that applies to other occupiers of the rights-of-way,
including on a historic landmark or in a historic district.
      (7)   Alternate placements.
         (a)   Except as provided in this division (C), a wireless provider
shall not be required to collocation small wireless facilities on any specific
utility pole, or category of utility poles, or be required to collocate
multiple antenna systems on a single utility pole. However, with respect to an
application for the collocation of a small wireless facility associated with a
new utility pole, the city may propose that the small wireless facility be
collocated on an existing utility pole or existing wireless support structure
within 100 feet of the proposed collocation, which the applicant shall accept
if it has the right to use the alternate structure on reasonable terms and
conditions, and the alternate location and structure does not impose technical
limits or additional material costs as determined by the applicant.
         (b)   If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the city, the
applicant shall provide written certification describing the property rights,
technical limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does not
satisfy the criteria in this division (C)(7).
      (8)   Height limitations.
         (a)   The maximum height of a small wireless facility shall be no more
than ten feet above the utility pole or wireless support structure on which the
small wireless facility is collocated.
         (b)   New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures
on which small wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
            1.   Ten feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the city, that is located within
300 feet of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless support structure
and that is in the same right-of-way within the jurisdictional boundary of the
city, provided the city may designate which intersecting right-of-way within
300 feet of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structures shall
control the height limitation for such facility; or
            2.   Forty-five feet above ground level.
      (9)   Height exceptions or variances. If an applicant proposes a height
for a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on
which the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant
shall apply for a special use permit in conformance with procedures, terms and
conditions set forth in
Chapter 162 of the city’s Revised Code of Ordinances.
      (10)   Contractual design requirements. The wireless provider shall
comply with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the city and a
private property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable
to utility poles and ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
      (11)   Ground-mounted equipment spacing. The wireless provider shall
comply with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
      (12)   Undergrounding regulations. The wireless provider shall comply
with local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding
requirements that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of
existing utility poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the
requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses requests
to install such new utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do
not prohibit the replacement of utility poles.
      (13)   Collocation completion deadline. Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within 180 days after issuance of the permit, unless
the city and the wireless provider agree to extend this period or a delay is
caused by make-ready work for a municipal utility pole or by the lack of
commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided the wireless
provider has made a timely request within 60 days after the issuance of the
permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the additional time to
complete installation does not exceed 360 days after issuance of the permit.
Otherwise, the permit shall be void unless the city grants an extension in
writing to the applicant.
   (D)   Application fees. Application fees are imposed as follows:
      (1)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $650 for an application
to collocate a single small wireless facility on an existing utility pole or
wireless support structure, and $350 for each small wireless facility addressed
in a consolidated application to collocate more than one small wireless
facility on existing utility poles or wireless support structures.
      (2)   Applicant shall pay an application fee of $1,000 for each small
wireless facility addressed in an application that includes the installation of
a new utility pole for such collocation.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of state law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
      (4)   The city shall not require an application, approval or permit, or
require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
         (a)   Routine maintenance;
         (b)   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the city at least ten days prior to the planned replacement
and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of equipment
consistent with division (B)(1)(d); or
         (c)   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
      (5)   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the city to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
   (E)   Exceptions to applicability. Nothing in this chapter authorizes a
person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
      (1)   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled
by the city or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
      (2)   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
      (3)   (a)   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under Section
18c-7201 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/18c-7201), Metra Commuter
Rail or any other public commuter rail service, or an electric utility as
defined in Section 16-102 of the Public Utilities Act (220 ILCS 5/16-102),
without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail service, or
electric utility. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to an electric or
gas public utility or such utility’s wireless facilities if the facilities are
being used, developed and maintained consistent with the provisions of
subsection (i) of Section 16-108. 5 of the Public Utilities Act (220 ILCS 5/16-
108.5(i)).
         (b)   For the purposes of this division (E)(3), “public utility” has
the meaning given to that term in Section 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act
(220 ILCS 5/3-105). Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to relieve any
person from any requirement:
            1.   To obtain a franchise or a state-issued authorization to offer
cable service or video service or
            2.   To obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain,
or operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities
subject to this chapter.
   (F)   Pre-existing agreements.
      (1)   Existing agreements between the city and wireless providers that
relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities in the right-of-way,
including the collocation of small wireless facilities on city utility poles,
that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for all small wireless
facilities collocated on the city’s utility poles pursuant to applications
submitted to the city before June 1, 2018, subject to applicable termination
provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into after June 1, 2018, shall
comply with this chapter.
      (2)   A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the city on
the effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the
city makes available under this chapter for the collocation of small wireless
facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the collocation of
small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application submitted two
or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying the city that it
opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The existing agreement remains in
effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for the small wireless
facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the city’s utility poles
pursuant to applications submitted to the city before the wireless provider
provides such notice and exercises its option under this division (F)(2).
   (G)   Annual recurring rate.
      (1)   A wireless provider shall pay to the city an annual recurring rate
to collocate a small wireless facility on a city utility pole located in a
right-of-way that equals (i) $200 per year or (ii) the actual, direct and
reasonable costs related to the wireless provider’s use of space on the city
utility pole.
      (2)   If the city has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct
costs, the fee shall be $200 payable on the first day after the first annual
anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent to collocate, and
on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
   (H)   Abandonment.
      (1)   A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous
period of 12 months shall be considered abandoned. The owner of the facility
shall remove the small wireless facility within 90 days after receipt of
written notice from the city notifying the wireless provider of the
abandonment.
      (2)   The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, by the city to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within 90 days
of such notice, the city may remove or cause the removal of such facility
pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for municipal utility
poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of nuisances or by
other law for removal and cost recovery.
      (3)   A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the city if it
sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the
city. Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new
wireless provider.
(Ord. 8237-2018, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 163.04 DISPUTE RESOLUTION.
   The Circuit Court of St. Clair County, Illinois shall have exclusive
jurisdiction to resolve all disputes arising under the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act (50 ILCS 840/1 et seq.). Pending resolution of a
dispute concerning rates for collocation of small wireless facilities on
municipal utility poles within the right-of-way, the city shall allow the
collocating person to collocate on its poles at annual rates of no more than
$200 per year per municipal utility pole, with rates to be determined upon
final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. 8237-2018, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 163.05 INDEMNIFICATION.
   A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the city harmless against any
and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting
from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the city
improvements or right-of-way associated with such improvements by the wireless
provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the rights and
privileges granted under this chapter and the Act. A wireless provider has no
obligation to indemnify or hold harmless against any liabilities and losses as
may be due to or caused by the sole negligence of the city or its employees or
agents. A wireless provider shall further waive any claims that they may have
against the city with respect to consequential, incidental, or special damages,
however caused, based on the theory of liability.
(Ord. 8237-2018, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 163.06 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider’s own cost
and expense, the following insurance:
      (1)   Property insurance for its property’s replacement cost against all
risks;
      (2)   Workers’ compensation insurance, as required by law; or
      (3)   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its
activities on the city improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum
protection limits consistent with its requirements of other users of city
improvements or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and
property damage.
   (B)   The wireless provider shall include the city as an additional insured
on the commercial general liability policy and provide certification and
documentation of inclusion of the city in a commercial general liability policy
prior to the collocation of any wireless facility.
   (C)   A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance
coverage and limit requirement required by the city. A wireless provider that
self-insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to comply
with the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this section. A
wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to the city evidence
sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the insurance
coverage limits required by the city.
(Ord. 8237-2018, passed 8-20-2018)
CHAPTER 164: INFILL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Section
   
164.01   Purpose; designation
   
164.02   Project requirements
§ 164.01 PURPOSE; DESIGNATION.
   The purpose of this Infill Development Program is to provide a process for
developers to partner with the city to provide opportunities for new
development and redevelopment on vacant, bypassed and underutilized land owned
by the city where infrastructure already exists, that is competitive with
conventional development and/ or redevelopment. The city shall designate such
properties that are eligible for projects under this Infill Development
Program.
(Ord. 8288-2018, passed 12-17-2018)
§ 164.02 PROJECT REQUIREMENTS.
   Subject to City Council approval, the city may enter into a development
agreement with a developer for a project consistent with the purpose set forth
in §
164.01 above, including one or more of the following terms:
   (A)   Property tax abatement by city for years two through six of the
project, provided that single-family structures must be owner-occupied for a
minimum of six years and multi-family structures must remain with original
developer for a minimum of six years;
   (B)   Property tax abatement by other taxing districts for years two through
six of the project (via intergovernmental agreement with the city), provided
that single-family structures must be owner-occupied for a minimum of six years
and multi- family structures must remain with original developer for a minimum
of six years;
   (C)   Permit fee waivers;
   (D)   Tax increment financing for eligible costs/expenses;
   (E)   Sale/transfer of city-owned property;
   (F)   Zoning exemptions for residential/multi-family (A1, A1A, A1H, A1M,
A1L, A2, B1) concerning lot coverage, lot area, lot depth, lot width and
setbacks, provided that the project conforms to adjacent properties;
   (G)   Project conformity with requirements of Historic Preservation District
(s), as applicable;
   (H)   Such other terms and conditions as may be imposed on the project by
the city.
(Ord. 8288-2018, passed 12-17-2018)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to 1960 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Cites Code Section
ILCS Cites                                    Code Section
5 ILCS 120/1                                  30.19,
                                              30.21
5 ILCS 120/2.02                               30.18
5 ILCS 120/2.03                               30.18
5 ILCS 120/2.06                               30.19
5 ILCS 120/2.06(g)                            30.01,
                                              30.22
5 ILCS 140/3(e)                               31.016
5 ILCS 140/3.5                                31.016
5 ILCS 140/3.5(b)                             31.016
5 ILCS 140/4                                  31.016
5 ILCS 140/6(b)                               31.016
5 ILCS 140/7                                  31.016
5 ILCS 140/9                                  31.016
5 ILCS 140/11                                 31.016
5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq.                        31.015
5 ILCS 430/5-15                               31.015
5 ILCS 430/5-65                               31.017
5 ILCS 430/10-10 through 10-40                31.015
5 ILCS 430/15-10                              31.017
5 ILCS 430/50-5                               31.015
5 ILCS 430/70-5                               31.015
5 ILCS 430/70-5(a)                            31.015
5 ILCS 430/70-5(c)                            31.015
10 ILCS 5                                     31.030
20 ILCS 655                                   159.01,
                                              159.03
20 ILCS 1805/86                               130.01
20 ILCS 3305/11                               112.42
35 ILCS 145                                   34.045
40 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.                       33.026
40 ILCS 5/4-109a et seq.                      33.048
50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.                          34.062
50 ILCS 345/1 et seq.                         34.130
50 ILCS 345/10                                34.130
50 ILCS 345/20                                34.130
50 ILCS 345/25                                34.130
50 ILCS 510/1 et seq.                         31.007,
                                              34.005
50 ILCS 820                                   117.17
50 ILCS 820/1 to 820/8                        Ch. 117
50 ILCS 840/1 et seq.                         163.01,
                                              163.04
60 ILCS 1/28-10                               34.120,
                                              34.121
                                              32.181,
60 ILCS 1/28-15                               34.120,
                                              34.121
60 ILCS 1/28-20                               32.181,
                                              32.182
60 ILCS 1/235-5                               34.121
60 ILCS 1/235-20                              34.120
60 ILCS 130/1 - 3                             91.02,
                                              91.03
                                              70.001,
65 ILCS 5                                     72.11,
                                              72.12,
                                              72.13
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1                               157.01
65 ILCS 5/1-2-9                               130.99
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5                            30.15
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-6                            31.031
65 ILCS 5/3.1-20-10                           30.15
65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-20                           33.024
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-65                           31.106
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-15                           30.01
                                              30.17,
65 ILCS 5/3.1-40-25                           30.18,
                                              30.20
65 ILCS 5/8-2-9.1 through 5/8-2-9.10          34.001
65 ILCS 5/8-11-1 et seq.                      159.04
                                              34.040,
65 ILCS 5/8-11-1                              34.041,
                                              34.044
                                              34.023,
65 ILCS 5/8-11-2                              34.044,
                                              34.046
65 ILCS 5/8-11-2(3)                           34.044
65 ILCS 5/8-11-5                              34.041
65 ILCS 5/8-11-17 (Repealed)                  34.020,
                                              34.023
65 ILCS 5/8-11-22 (Repealed)                  34.047
65 ILCS 5/10-2.1                              33.016,
                                              33.041
65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-1 et seq.                    33.016,
                                              33.041
65 ILCS 5/11-10-1                             34.042
65 ILCS 5/11-12-12                            157.01
65 ILCS 5/11-13-1 et seq.                     162.001
65 ILCS 5/11-13-3                             162.535
65 ILCS 5/11-13-12                            162.550
65 ILCS 5/11-13-14                            162.590,
                                              162.594
65 ILCS 5/11-13-19                            162.022
65 ILCS 5/11-30-2                             157.01
65 ILCS 5/11-30-8                             157.01
65 ILCS 5/11-31-1 et seq.                     93.043
65 ILCS 5/11-31-2                             157.01
65 ILCS 5/11-40-3                             93.067
65 ILCS 5/11-49-1 through 65 ILCS 5/11-52.2-1 91.02,
                                              91.03
65 ILCS 5/11-74.3-6                           34.045,
                                              160.06
65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-1 et seq.                   34.090
65 ILCS 5/11-95-1 to 11-95-10                 32.132
70 ILCS 210/13(c)                             34.045
70 ILCS 605/2-1                               162.392
75 ILCS 5/9-106.2                             154.55
105 ILCS                                      156.05
105 ILCS 128                                  33.067
205 ILCS 670/1 et seq.                        120.04
210 ILCS 50                                   112.15,
                                              112.20
210 ILCS 50/3.5                               112.15
210 ILCS 50/3.10                              112.15
210 ILCS 50/3.10(a)                           112.15
210 ILCS 50/3.10(c)                           112.15
210 ILCS 50/3.50(a)                           112.15
210 ILCS 50/3.50(b)                           112.15
210 ILCS 50/3.50(c)                           112.15
210 ILCS 50/3.55(b)                           112.15
210 ILCS 50/3.80(b)                           112.15
210 ILCS 50/3.85(a)(1)                        112.15
210 ILCS 50/3.85(b)(1)                        112.15
210 ILCS 50/3.85(b)(10)                       112.15
                                              156.05,
210 ILCS 120/1 et seq.                        156.26,
                                              157.10
210 ILCS 120/1 to 120/7                       156.26
220 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.                      34.046
220 ILCS 5/2-202                              34.023
220 ILCS 5/3-105                              34.046 ,
                                              163.03
220 ILCS 5/9-221                              34.020
220 ILCS 5/9-222                              34.020
220 ILCS 5/9-222.1                            34.020
220 ILCS 5/16-102                             163.03
220 ILCS 5/16-104                             34.044
220 ILCS 5/16-108.5(i)                        163.03
225 ILCS 225                                  50.056
225 ILCS 225/6                                50.022
225 ILCS 465/1 et seq.                        115.15
230 ILCS 15/1 et seq.                         111.095,
                                              111.096
230 ILCS 30/1 et seq.                         131.03
                                              111.025,
                                              118.21,
230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.                         121.04,
                                              121.06,
                                              131.03
235 ILCS 5                                    121.01,
                                              121.14
235 ILCS 5/6-11                               121.04
305 ILCS 5/12-3.1                             32.181,
                                              34.120
410 ILCS 82/1 et seq.                         113.008
410 ILCS 615/1 et seq.                        130.13
410 ILCS 705                                  123.001,
                                              123.002
410 ILCS 705/10-35                            123.015
410 ILCS 705.55-25(5)                         123.006 -
                                              123.011
425 ILCS 35/1 et seq.                         130.06
425 ILCS 35/5                                 130.99
430 ILCS 66/1 et seq.                         130.04
430 ILCS 85/2-1 et seq.                       111.044
510 ILCS 5/1 et seq.                          90.01,
                                              90.04
510 ILCS 5/13                                 90.05
525 ILCS 10/1 et seq.                         93.020
625 ILCS                                      74.18 ,
                                              Ch. 75 Schd. VI
625 ILCS 5/1-159.1                            74.18
625 ILCS 5/3-609                              74.18
625 ILCS 5/3-616                              74.18
625 ILCS 5/4-201 et seq.                      93.067
625 ILCS 5/6-206.2                            70.075
625 ILCS 5/6-303                              70.075
625 ILCS 5/11-204                             70.075
625 ILCS 5/11-500-11-502                      77.03
625 ILCS 5/11-501                             70.075
625 ILCS 5/11-503                             70.075
625 ILCS 5/11-506                             70.075
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2                          74.18
625 ILCS 5/11-1426.1                          77.03
625 ILCS 5/12-709                             77.03
625 ILCS 5/18b-101                            118.16
625 ILCS 5/18c-7201                           163.03
705 ILCS 405                                  32.168
720 ILCS 5/10-1                               130.20
720 ILCS 5/10-2                               130.20
720 ILCS 5/10-3                               130.20
720 ILCS 5/10-3.1                             130.20
720 ILCS 5/10-5(b)(10)                        130.20
720 ILCS 5/10-7                               130.20
720 ILCS 5/11-1.20                            130.20
720 ILCS 5/11-1.30                            130.20
720 ILCS 5/11-1.40                            130.20
720 ILCS 5/11-1.60                            130.20
720 ILCS 5/11-6                               130.20
720 ILCS 5/11-9.1                             130.20
720 ILCS 5/11-18.1                            130.20
720 ILCS 5/11-20.1                            130.20
720 ILCS 5/11-30                              130.20
720 ILCS 5/12-2(b)(4.1)                       70.075
720 ILCS 5/16-1                               130.99
720 ILCS 5/26-1                               130.02
720 ILCS 5/31-1(a)                            70.075
720 ILCS 5/31-4.5                             70.075
720 ILCS 550                                  70.075
720 ILCS 570                                  70.075
720 ILCS 570/100 et seq                       130.13
720 ILCS 600                                  70.075
720 ILCS 602                                  70.075
720 ILCS 635                                  70.075
720 ILCS 646                                  70.075
                                              112.49,
730 ILCS 150/1 et seq.                        130.19,
                                              130.20
730 ILCS 152/101 et seq.                      130.99
735 ILCS 5/9-106.2                            154.55
740 ILCS 174/15(a), (b)                       31.017
745 ILCS 10/1-101                             162.004
760 ILCS 45/1 et seq.                         91.03
765 ILCS 205/2                                157.11
775 ILCS 5/6-101                              31.017
820 ILCS 320/1 et seq.                        33.101
820 ILCS 320/10(a)(2), (3)                    33.106
                                              
 
REFERENCES TO 1960 CODE
1960 Code 2016 Code
1960 Code         2016 Code
Permit Tables     150.38
1.01              10.01
1.02              10.02
1.03              10.03
1.04              10.04
1.05              10.05
1.06              10.06
1.07              10.07
1.08              10.08
1.09              10.99
1.10              10.99
1.11              10.99
1.12              10.99
1.13              10.09
1.14              10.10
1.15              10.11
2-1-1             30.15
2-1-2             30.16
2-1-3             30.17
2-1-4             30.18
2-1-5             30.19
2-1-6             30.20
2-1-7             30.21
2-2-1             30.01
2-3-1             30.02
2-4-1             30.03
3-3-1             154.40
3-3-2             154.41
3-3-3             154.42
3-3-4             154.43
3-3-5             154.44
3-3-6             154.45
3-3-8             154.47
3-3-10            154.48
3-3-11            154.49
3-3-12            154.50
3-3-13            154.51
3-3-14            154.52
3-3-15            154.50
3-3-16            154.53
3-3-17            154.54
3-3-18            154.55
3.01              31.001
3.02              31.030
3.03              31.031
3.05              31.032
3.06              31.033
3.07              31.034
3.08              31.055—
                  31.062
                  31.075—
3.09              31.078,
                  31.080—
                  31.086
3.11              31.035
3.12              34.001—
                  34.005
3.13              31.100—
                  31.112
3.14              31.125—
                  31.130
3.141             31.131
3.142             31.132
3.15              31.036
3.17              31.038
3.18              31.039
3.19              31.002
3.195             31.003
3.20              31.004
3.21              31.005
3.211             31.006
3.22              31.007
3.24              31.008
3.25              32.095—
                  32.101
3.26              32.115,
                  32.116
3.27              32.130—
                  32.136
3.28              32.150
3.295             31.009
3.30              31.010
3.301             31.011
3.32              31.012
3.32              32.165—
                  32.168
3.33              33.001
3.34              31.013
3.36              31.014
3.37              31.015
4.01              33.015
4.02              33.016
4.03              33.017
4.035             33.018
4.04              33.019
4.05              33.020
4.06              33.021
4.07              33.022
4.08              33.023
4.11              33.026
4.13              33.027
5-1-1             33.040
5-1-2             33.041
5-1-3             33.042
5-1-4             33.043,
                  33.048
5-1-5             33.044
5-1-6             33.045
5-1-7             33.046
5-1-8             33.047
5-1-9             33.048
5-2-1             33.060
5-2-2             33.061
5-2-3             33.062
5-2-4             33.063
5-2-5             33.064
5-2-6             33.065
5-2-7             33.066
5-2-8             33.067
5-2-9             33.068
5-2-10            33.069
5-2-11            33.070
5-2-12            33.071
5-2-13            33.040
5-3-1             33.085
5-3-2             33.085
5-4-1             33.086
5-5-1             33.999
5-6-1             33.087
6-1-1             32.001
6-1-2             32.002
6-1-3             32.003
7-1-1             110.01
7-1-2             110.02
7-1-3             110.03
7-1-4             110.04
7-1-5             110.05
7-1-6             110.06
7-1-7             110.07
7-1-8             110.07
7-1-9             110.08
7-1-10            110.09
7-1-11            110.03,
                  110.09
7-1-12            110.10
7-1-13            110.11
7-1-14            110.12
7-2-1             113.075—
                  113.077
7-2-2             113.090—
                  113.099
7-2-3             118.01
7-2-4             113.001
7-2-6             113.002
7-2-8             113.004
7-2-9             111.001
7-2-12            113.006,
                  113.999
7-3-1             112.15
7-3-2             112.16
7-3-3             112.17
7-3-4             112.18
7-3-5             112.19
7-3-6             112.20
7-3-7             112.21
7-3-8             112.22
7-3-9             112.23
7-3-10            112.24
7-3-11            112.25
7-3-12            112.26
7-4-1             111.005
7-4-2             111.005
7-4-3             111.005
7-4-4             111.005
7-4-5             111.005
7-5-1             113.020
7-5-2             113.021
7-5-3             113.022
7-5-4             113.023
7-5-5             113.024
7-5-6             113.025
7-5-7             113.026
7-5-8             113.027
7-5-9             113.028
7-5-10            113.029
7-5-11            113.030
7-5-12            113.999
7-6-1             111.020
7-6-2             111.021
7-6-3             111.022
7-6-4             111.023
7-6-5             111.024
7-6-6             111.025
7-6-7             111.026
7-6-8             111.027
7-6-9             111.028
7-8-1             113.060
7-8-2             113.061
7-8-3             113.062
7-8-4             113.063,
                  113.999
7-8-5             113.064
7-9-1             114.20
7-9-2             114.21
7-9-3             114.22
7-9-4             114.23
7-9-5             114.24
7-9-6             114.25
7-9-7             114.26
7-9-8             114.27
7-9-9             114.28
7-9-10            114.29
7-11-1            116.01
7-11-2            116.02
7-11-3            116.03
7-11-4            116.04
7-11-5            116.05,
                  116.99
7-11-6            116.06
7-11-7            116.07
7-11-8            116.99
7-12-1            114.01
7-12-2            114.02
7-12-3            114.03
7-12-4            114.04
7-12-5            114.05
7-12-6            114.06
7-12-7            114.07
7-12-8            114.08,
                  114.99
7-12-9            114.09
7-13-1            116.20,
                  116.31
7-13-2            116.21
7-13-3            116.21
7-13-4            116.22
7-13-5            116.23,
                  116.99
7-13-6            116.24
7-13-7            116.25
7-13-8            116.26
7-13-9            116.27
7-13-10           116.28
7-13-11           116.28
7-13-12           116.29
7-13-13           116.30
7-13-14           116.31
7-13-15           116.31
7-13-16           116.31
7-13-17           116.32
7-13-18           116.32
7-13-19           116.32
7-13-20           116.32
7-13-21           116.32
7-13-22           116.33
7-13-23           116.33
7-13-24           116.33
7-13-25           116.34
7-13-26           116.35
7-13-27           116.36
7-13-28           116.37
7-13-29           116.38
7-13-30           116.39
7-13-31           116.40
7-13-32           116.31
7-13-33           116.99
7-14-1            117.01
7-14-2            117.02
7-14-3            117.02
7-14-4            117.02
7-14-5            117.03
7-14-6            117.04
7-15-7            116.99
7-16-1            117.15
7-16-2            117.16
7-16-3            117.17
7-16-4            117.18
7-16-5            117.19
7-16-6            117.20
7-16-7            117.21
7-16-8            117.22
7-16-9            117.23
7-16-10           117.24
7-16-11           117.25
7-16-12           117.26
7-16-13           117.27
7-16-14           117.27
7-16-15           117.28
7-16-16           117.29
7-16-17           117.30
7-16-18           117.31
7-16-19           117.32
7-16-20           117.32
7-17-1            111.090—
                  111.095
7-18-1            118.01
7-18-2            118.01
7-18-3            118.01
7-18-4            118.01
7-18-5            118.01
7-19-1            118.15
7-19-2            118.16
7-19-3            118.22
7-19-4            118.17
7-19-5            118.23
7-19-6            118.17
7-19-7            118.17
7-19-9            118.17
7-19-10           118.18
7-19-12           118.19
7-19-13           118.25
7-19-14           118.99
7-20-1            112.01
7-20-2            112.02
7-20-3            112.03
7-21-25           119.99
7-22-1            113.007
7-22-2            113.007
7-22-3            113.007
7-22-4            113.007
7-22-5            113.007
7-22-6            113.007
7-22-7            113.999
                  111.070—
7-23-1            111.079,
                  111.999
7-24-1            120.01
7-24-2            120.03
7-24-3            120.02
7-24-4            120.04
7-24-5            120.03
7-24-6            120.05
7-24-7            120.03
7-24-8            120.06
7-24-9            120.99
7-25-1            110.25
7-25-2            110.26
7-25-3            110.27
7-25-4            110.27
7-25-5            110.28
7-25-6            110.29
7-25-7            110.30
7-25-8            110.31
7-25-9            110.32
7-25-10           110.33
7-25-11           110.34
7-25-12           110.99
7-25-13           110.35
7-25-14           110.36
7-25-15           110.37
7-25-16           110.38
7-25-17           110.26
7-25-18           110.39
7-25-19           110.40
7-25-20           110.41
7-25-21           110.41
7-25-22           110.41
7-26-1            112.40
7-26-2            112.41
7-26-3            112.42
7-26-4            112.43
7-26-5            112.44
7-26-6            112.45
7-26-7            112.46
7-26-8            112.47
7-26-9            112.48
7-26-10           112.49
7-26-11           112.50
7-26-12           112.51
7-26-13           112.52
7-26-14           112.53
7-26-15           112.99
7-26-16           112.54
7-27-2            111.999
9-1-1             32.020
9-2-1             32.035
9-2-2             32.036
9-2-3             32.037
9-2-4             32.038
9-2-5             32.039
9-2-6             32.040
9-2-7             32.041
9-3-1             32.055
9-3-2             32.056
9-3-3             32.057
9-3-4             32.058
9-3-5             32.059
9-3-6             32.060
9-3-7             32.061
9-3-8             32.062
9-3-10            32.064
9-3-11            32.065
9-3-12            32.066
9-3-13            32.067
9-3-14            32.068
9-3-15            32.069
9-3-16            32.070
9-3-17            32.071
9-3-18            32.072
9-3-19            32.073
9-3-20            32.074
9-3-21            32.075
9-3-22            32.076
9-3-23            32.077
9-3-24            32.078
9-3-25            32.079
9-3-26            32.080
10.01—10.24     111.003
10-2-1—10-2-7   111.003
10-3-1—10-3-4   111.003
11-1-1            159.01
11-1-2            159.02
11-1-3            159.03
11-1-4            159.04
11-1-5            159.05
11-1-7            159.06
13-1-1            90.01
13-1-2            90.02
13-1-3            90.03
13-1-4            90.04
13-1-5            90.05
13-1-6            90.06
13-1-7            90.07
13-1-8            90.08
13-1-9            90.09
13-1-10           90.10
13-1-11           90.11
13-1-12           90.99
13-1-13           90.12
13-1-14           90.13
14-1-1            91.01
14-1-2            91.02
14-1-3            91.02
14-1-4            91.03
14-1-5            91.03
14-2-2            91.16
14-2-3            91.17
14-2-4            91.18
14-2-5            91.19
14-3-1            91.30
14-3-2            91.31
14-3-3            91.32
14-3-4            91.33
14-4-1            91.45
14-4-2            91.46
14-4-3            91.47
14-4-4            91.48
14-4-5            91.49
14-4-6            91.50
14-4-7            91.51
14-4-8            91.52
15-1-1            157.01
15-1-2            157.02
15-1-3            157.03
15-1-4            157.07
15-1-5            157.08
15-1-6            157.09
15-1-7            157.10
15-1-8            157.11
15-1-9            157.12
15-1-10           157.04
15-1-11           157.05
15-1-12           157.99
15-1-13           157.06
17-1-1            119.01
17-1-2            119.01
18-1-1            92.01
18-1-2            92.01
18-1-3            92.02
18-1-4            92.03
18-1-5            92.04
18-1-6            92.05
18-1-7            92.06
18-2-1            92.20
18-2-2            92.21
18-2-3            92.22
18-2-4            92.23
18-2-5            92.24
18-2-6            92.25
18-2-8            92.27
18-2-9            92.28
18-3-1            92.07
18-3-2            92.08,
                  92.99
18-3-3            92.09,
                  92.99
19-1-1            156.05
19-1-2            156.20
19-1-3            156.21
19-1-4            156.22
19-1-5            156.23
19-1-6            156.24
19-1-7            156.25
19-1-8            156.26
19-1-9            156.27
19-1-10           156.28
19-1-11           156.29
19-1-12           156.30
19-1-13           156.31
19-1-14           156.32
19-1-15           156.33
19-1-16           156.34
19-1-17           156.99
19-1-18           156.06
19-1-19           156.01—
                  156.04
21-1-1            121.01
21-1-2            121.02
21-1-3            121.03
21-1-4            121.04
21-1-5            121.04
21-1-6            121.05
21-1-7            121.05
21-1-8            121.06
21-1-9            121.07
21-1-10           121.08
21-1-11           121.09
21-1-12           121.10
21-1-13           121.11
21-1-14           121.12
21-1-15           121.13
21-1-16           121.14
21-1-19           121.25
21-1-20           121.26
21-1-21           121.27
21-1-22           121.28
21-1-23           121.29
21-1-24           121.30
21-1-25           121.99
23-1-1            150.01
23-1-2            150.02
23-1-3            150.03
23-1-4            150.15
23-1-5            150.16
23-1-6            150.17
23-1-7            150.18
23-1-8            150.19
23-1-9            150.30
23-1-10           150.31
23-1-11           150.32
23-1-12           150.33
23-1-13           150.99
23-1-14           150.34
23-1-15           150.35
23-1-16           150.36
23-1-17           150.37
24-1-1            151.01
24-1-2            151.02
24-1-3            151.02
24-1-4            151.03
24-1-5            151.04
24-1-6            151.05
24-1-7            151.06
24-1-8            151.07
24-1-9            151.08
24-1-10           151.09
24-1-11           151.10
24-1-12           151.11
24-1-13           151.12
24-1-14           151.13
24-1-15           151.14
24-2-1            151.25
24-2-2            151.26
24-2-3            151.27
24-2-4            151.28
24-2-5            151.29
24-3-1            151.40
24-3-2            151.41
24-3-3            151.42
24-3-4            151.43
24-3-5            151.44
24-3-6            151.45
24-3-7            151.46
24-3-9            151.48
24-3-10           151.49
24.1-1            151.05
25-1-1            152.01
25-1-4            152.02
25-1-5            152.03
25-1-6            152.04
25-1-7            152.05
25-1-8            152.05
25-1-9            152.06
25-1-10           152.99
25-1-11           152.07
26-1-1            93.001
26-1-2            93.002,
                  93.999
26-1-3            93.003
26-1-4            93.004
26-1-5            93.005
26-1-6            93.006
26-2-1            93.020
26-2-2            93.021
26-2-3            93.022
26-2-4            93.023
26-2-5            93.024
26-2-6            93.025
26-3-1            93.040
26-3-2            93.041
26-3-3            93.042
26-3-4            93.043
26-3-5            93.999
26-4-1            93.055
26-4-2            93.056
26-4-3            93.057
26-4-4            93.058
26-4-5            93.059
26-4-6            93.060
26-4-7            93.061
26-4-8            93.062
26-4-9            93.063
26-4-10           93.064
26-4-11           93.065
26-4-12           93.066
26-4-13           93.067
26-4-14           93.999
26-5-1            93.080
26-5-2            93.081
26-5-3            93.082
26-5-4            93.083
26-5-5            93.084
26-5-6            93.085
26-5-7            93.086
26-5-8            93.087
26-5-9            93.088
26-5-10           93.089
26-5-11           93.999
26-6-1            93.100,
                  93.999
26-6-2            93.101
26-6-3            93.102
26-7-1            90.25
26-7-2            90.26
26-7-3            90.27
26-7-4            90.28
26-7-5            90.29
26-7-6            90.30
26-7-7            90.31
26-7-8            90.32
27-1-1            153.01
27-1-2            153.02
27-1-4            153.04
27-1-5            153.05
27-1-6            153.03,
                  153.06
27-1-7            153.07
27-1-8            153.08
27-1-9            153.99
27-1-10           153.09
Ch. 27.1          Ch. 153 App. A
30-1-1            130.01
30-1-2            130.02
30-1-8            130.03,
                  130.99
30-1-9            130.04
30-1-10           130.05
30-1-11           130.04
30-1-15           130.06
30-1-16           130.07,
                  130.99
30-1-29           131.01
30-1-30           131.02
30-1-32           131.03
30-1-33           130.09,
                  130.99
30-1-34           130.10,
                  130.99
30-1-35           130.11,
                  130.99
30-1-36           131.02
30-1-38           130.12,
                  130.99
30-1-39           130.13
30-1-40           130.14
30-1-42           130.15,
                  130.99
30-1-43           130.16
30-1-44           130.17,
                  130.99
30-1-45           130.18
30-1-46           130.18
30-1-47           130.19,
                  130.99
30-1-48           50.004
30-1-49           130.20
31-1-1            94.01,
                  94.99
31-1-2            94.02
31-1-3            94.99
31-1-4            94.03,
                  94.99
31-1-5            94.04
33-1-1            154.01
33-2-1            154.15
33-2-2            154.16
33-2-3            154.17
33-2-4            154.18
33-2-5            154.19
33-2-6            154.20
33-2-7            154.21
33-2-8            154.22
33-2-9            154.23
33-2-10           154.24
33-2-11           154.25
33-2-12           154.99
33-3-19           154.99
Ch. 38 App. A     Ch. 51 App. A
Ch. 38 App. B     Ch. 51 App. B
38-1-1            50.001
38-1-2            50.002
38-2-1            50.003
38-3-1            50.015
38-3-2            50.016
38-3-3            50.017
38-3-4            50.018
38-3-5            50.019
38-3-6            50.020
38-3-7            50.021,
                  50.999
38-3-8            50.022
38-3-9            50.023
38-4-1            50.035
38-4-2            50.036
38-4-3            50.037
38-4-4            50.038
38-4-5            50.039
38-4-6            50.040
38-4-7            50.041,
                  50.999
38-4-8            50.042
38-6-1            50.055
38-6-2            50.056
38-7-1            50.070
38-7-2            50.071
38-7-3            50.072
38-9-1            50.085
38-9-2            50.086
38-10-3           50.100
38-10-4           50.101
38-11-1           50.004,
                  50.015
38-11-2           50.999
38-11-3           50.004
38-12-1           50.999
38-13-1           50.115
38-13-2           50.116
38-13-3           50.117
38-13-4           50.118,
                  50.999
38-14-1           51.001
38-14-2           51.002
38-14-3           51.003
38-14-4           51.004
38-14-6           51.020
38-14-7           51.021
38-14-8           51.022
38-14-9           51.023
38-14-10          51.024
38-14-11          51.025
38-14-12          51.026
38-14-14          51.040
38-14-15          51.041
38-14-16          51.042
38-14-17          51.043
38-14-18          51.044
38-14-19          51.045
38-14-23          51.060
38-14-24          51.061
38-14-25          51.062
38-14-26          51.063
38-14-27          51.064
38-14-28          51.065
38-14-29          51.066
38-14-30          51.067
38-14-33          51.080
38-14-34          51.081
38-14-35          51.082
38-14-36          51.083
38-14-37          51.084
38-14-38          51.085
38-14-39          51.086
38-14-40          51.087
38-14-43          51.100
38-14-44          51.101
38-14-45          51.102
38-14-46          51.103
38-14-47          51.104
38-14-48          51.105
38-14-49          51.106
38-14-50          51.107
38-14-51          51.108
38-14-52          51.109
38-14-53          51.110
38-14-54          51.111
38-14-55          51.112
38-14-56          51.113
38-14-57          51.114
38-14-66          51.125
38-14-67          51.126
38-14-68          51.005
38-14-69          51.006
38-14-72          51.140
38-14-73          51.141
38-14-74          51.142
38-14-75          51.143
38-14-76          51.144
38-14-77          51.145
38-14-78          51.146
38-14-79          51.147
38-14-81          51.999
38-14-82          51.999
38-14-83          51.999
38-14-84          51.999
38-14-86          51.160
38-14-87          51.161
38-14-88          51.162
38-14-90          51.175
38-14-91          51.176
38-14-92          51.177
38-14-94          51.007
38-14-96          51.008
39-1-1            160.01
39-1-2            160.02
39-1-3            160.03
39-1-4            160.04
39-1-5            160.05
39-1-6            160.06
40-1-1            158.001
40-1-2            158.002
40-1-3            158.003
40-1-4            158.004
40-1-5            158.005
40-1-6            158.006
40-1-7            158.007
40-1-8            158.008
40-1-9            158.009
40-1-10           158.010
40-1-11           158.011
40-1-12           158.012
40-1-13           158.013
40-1-14           158.014
40-1-15           158.015
40-1-16           158.016
40-1-17           158.017
40-1-18           158.018
40-1-19           158.018
40-1-20           158.019
40-1-21           111.040
40-1-22           111.041
40-1-23           111.042
40-1-24           111.043
40-1-25           111.044
40-1-26           111.045
40-1-27           111.046
40-1-28           111.047
40-1-29           111.048
40-1-30           111.049
40-1-31           111.050
40-1-32           111.051
40-1-33           111.052
40-1-34           111.053
40-1-35           111.999
40-1-36           111.054
40-1-37           111.055
40-2-1            158.030
40-2-2            158.031
40-2-3            158.032
40-2-4            158.033
40-2-5            158.034
40-2-6            158.035
40-2-7            158.999
40-2-8            158.036
40-2-9            158.037
40-2-10           158.038
40-2-11           158.039
40-2-12           158.040
40-2-13           158.041
40-2-14           158.042
40-2-15           158.043
40-3-1            158.055
40-3-2            158.056
40-3-3            158.057,
                  158.999
40-3-4            158.058
40-3-5            158.059
40-4-1            158.070
40-4-2            158.071
40-4-3            158.072
40-4-4            158.073
40-4-5            158.074
40-4-6            158.075
40-4-7            158.999
40-5-1            158.090
40-5-2            158.091
40-5-3            158.092
40-5-5            158.092
40-5-6            158.094
40-5-7            158.095
40-5-8            158.096
40-5-9            158.999
40-5-10           158.097
40-5-11           158.098
40-6-1            158.110
40-6-2            158.111
40-6-3            158.112
40-7-1            158.125
40-7-2            158.126
40-7-3            158.127
40-7-4            158.128
40-7-5            158.129
40-8-1            158.140
40-8-2            158.141
40-8-3            158.142
40-8-4            158.143
40-8-5            158.144
40-8-6            158.145
40-8-7            158.145
41-1-1            161.001
41-1-2            161.002
41-1-3            161.003
41-2-1            161.015
41-2-2            161.016
41-2-3            161.017
41-2-4            161.018
41-2-5            161.019
41-2-6            161.020
41-2-7            161.021
41-2-8            161.022
41-2-9            161.023
41-2-10           161.024
41-3-1            161.035
41-3-2            161.036
41-3-3            161.037
41-4-1            161.050
41-4-3            161.051
41-4-4            161.052
41-4-5            161.053
41-5-1            161.065
41-5-2            161.066
41-5-3            161.067
41-5-4            161.068
41-5-5            161.069
41-5-6            161.070
41-5-7            161.071
41-5-8            161.072
41-6-1            161.085
41-6-2            161.086
41-6-3            161.087
41-6-4            161.088
41-6-5            161.089
41-6-6            161.090
43-1-1            34.040
43-1-2            34.040
43-1-3            34.040
43-1-4            34.040
43-1-5            34.040
43-1-6            34.040
43-1-7            34.040
43-1-8            34.040
43-1-9            34.999
43-2-1            34.041
43-2-2            34.041
43-3-1            34.042
43-3-2            34.042
43-3-3            34.042
43-3-4            34.042
43-3-5            34.999
43-3-6            34.042
43-3-7            34.042
43-3-8            34.042
43-4-1            34.043
43-4-2            34.043
43-4-3            34.043
43-4-4            34.043
43-4-5            34.043
43-4-6            34.043
43-4-7            34.043
43-4-8            34.999
43-5-1            34.044
43-5-2            34.044
43-5-3            34.044
43-5-4            34.044
43-5-5            34.044
43-5-6            34.044
43-5-7            34.999
43-6-1            34.060
43-6-2            34.061
43-6-3            34.062
43-6-4            34.063
43-6-5            34.064
43-6-6            34.065
43-6-7            34.066
43-6-8            34.067
43-6-9            34.068
43-6-10           34.069
43-6-11           34.070
43-6-12           34.071
43-6-13           34.072
43-6-14           34.073
43-6-15           34.074
43-6-16           34.075
43-6-17           34.076
43-6-18           34.077
43-7-1            34.020
43-7-2            34.021
43-7-3            34.022
43-7-4            34.023
43-7-5            34.024
43-7-6            34.025
43-7-7            34.026
43-7-8            34.027
43-7-11           34.028
43-8-1            34.045
43-8-2            34.045
43-8-3            34.045
43-8-4            34.045
43-8-5            34.045
43-8-6            34.045
43-8-8            34.045
43-8-9            34.045
52.10.1           70.075
52.10.2           70.076
52.101            70.001
52.101A           70.002
52.102            70.003
52.103            70.004
52.104            70.020
52.104-A          70.021
52.105            70.022
52.106            70.023
52.107            70.024
52.108            70.025
52.109            70.026
52.110            70.027
52.111            70.028
52.112            70.005
52.113            70.006
52.114            70.007
52.115            70.008
52.201            70.040
52.202            70.041
52.203            70.042
52.204            70.043
52.205            70.044
52.206            70.045
52.207            70.046
52.208            70.047
52.218            74.18,
                  74.99
52.219            74.99
52.301            73.01
52.301A           73.02
52.302            73.03
52.303            73.04
52.304            73.05
52.305            73.06
52.306            73.06
52.307            73.06
52.308            73.07
52.309            73.08
52.310            73.09
52.311            73.10
52.312            73.15
52.313            73.11
52.314            73.12
52.315            73.12
52.316            73.12
52.317            73.12
52.318            73.13
52.319            73.14
52.320            73.15
52.321            73.45
52.322            73.16
52.323            73.16
52.323-A          73.16
52.324            73.16
52.325            73.33
52.327            73.16
52.328            73.17
52.329            73.18
52.330            73.19
52.331            73.20
52.332            73.21
52.333            73.46
52.334            73.18
52.335            73.47
52.336            73.22
52.337            73.23
52.338            73.23
52.339            73.23
52.340            73.24
52.341            73.25
52.342            73.26
52.343            73.27
52.344            73.28
52.345            73.29
52.346            73.30
52.347            73.31
52.348            73.48
52.349            73.49
52.350            73.50
52.351            73.51
52.352            73.32
52.353            73.52
52.354            73.15
52.401            71.01
52.402            71.02
52.403            71.03
52.404            71.04
52.405            71.05
52.406            71.06
52.407            71.07
52.408            71.08
52.501            74.01
52.502            74.02
52.503            74.03
52.504            74.04
52.505            74.05
52.506            74.06
52.507            74.07
52.508            74.08
52.509            74.09
52.510            74.10
52.511            74.11
52.512            74.12
52.513            74.13
52.514            74.14
52.515            74.15
52.516            74.16
52.517            74.17
52.518            74.18
52.601            72.01
52.602            72.02
52.603            72.03
52.604            72.04
52.605            72.05
52.606            72.06
52.607            72.07
52.608            72.08
52.609            72.09
52.610            72.10
52.611            72.11
52.612            72.12
52.613            72.13
52.614            72.14
52.615            72.15
52.701            70.060
52.702            70.061
52.801            74.30
52.803            74.31
52.804            74.32
52.805            74.33
52.806            74.34,
                  74.99
52.808            74.35
52.809            74.36
52.810            74.37
52.901            70.999
52.902            70.999
52.903            70.999
Ch. 52 Schd. A    Ch. 75 Schd. I
Ch. 52 Schd. A-1  Ch. 75 Schd. I
Ch. 52 Schd. B    Ch. 75 Schd. II
Ch. 52 Schd. B-1  Ch. 75 Schd. II
Ch. 52 Schd. C-1  Ch. 75 Schd. II
Ch. 52 Schd. C-2  Ch. 75 Schd. II
Ch. 52 Schd. C-3  Ch. 75 Schd. II
Ch. 52 Schd. D    Ch. 75 Schd. III
Ch. 52 Schd. E    Ch. 76 Schd. I
Ch. 52 Schd. F    Ch. 76 Schd. II
Ch. 52 Schd. G    Ch. 76 Schd. II
Ch. 52 Schd. H    Ch. 75 Schd. IV
Ch. 52 Schd. I    Ch. 76 Schd. III
Ch. 52 Schd. J    Ch. 75 Schd. V
Ch. 52 Schd. K    Ch. 76 Schd. IV
Ch. 52 Schd. L, P Ch. 75 Schd. VI
Ch. 52 Schd. M    Ch. 76 Schd. V
Ch. 52 Schd. N    Ch. 76 Schd. VI
Ch. 52 Schd. O    Ch. 76 Schd. VII
Ch. 52 Schd. Q    Ch. 75 Schd. VII
Ch. 52 Schd. R    Ch. 75 Schd. VIII
Ch. 52 Schd. U    Ch. 75 Schd. VIII
Ch. 52 Schd. V    Ch. 76 Schd. VIII
53-1-1            155.001
53-1-2            155.002
53-2-1            155.003
53-2-2            155.004
53-2-3            155.005
53-2-4            155.006
53-2-5            155.007
53-2-6            155.008
53-2-7            155.009
53-2-8            155.010
53-2-9            155.011
53-3-1            155.025
53-3-2            155.026
53-3-3            155.027
53-3-4            155.028
53-3-5            155.029
53-3-6            155.030
53-3-7            155.031
53-3-8            155.032
53-3-9            155.033
53-4-1            155.045
53-4-2            155.046
53-4-3            155.047
53-4-4            155.048
53-4-5            155.049
53-4-6            155.050
53-4-7            155.051
53-4-8            155.052
53-4-9            155.053
53-5-1            155.065
53-5-2            155.066
53-5-3            155.067
53-5-4            155.068
53-5-5            155.069
53-5-6            155.070
53-5-7            155.071
53-5-8            155.072
53-5-9            155.073
53-5-10           155.074
53-5-11           155.075
53-5-12           155.076
53-5-13           155.999
53-5-14           155.077
53-6-1            155.090
53-6-2            155.091
53-6-3            155.092
53-6-4            155.093
53-6-5            155.094
53-6-6            155.095
53-6-7            155.096
53-6-8            155.097
53-6-9            155.098
53-6-10           155.099
60-1-1            162.001
60-1-2            162.002
60-1-3            162.003
60-1-4            162.004
60-2-1            162.005
60-2-2            162.006
60-3-1            162.020
60-3-2            162.021
60-3-3            162.022
60-3-4            162.023
60-3-5            162.024
60-3-6            162.025
60-3-7            162.026
60-3-8            162.027
60-3-9            162.028
60-3-10           162.029
60-3-11           162.030
60-3-12           162.031
60-3-14           162.032
60-3-15           162.033
60-3-16           162.034
60-3-17           162.035
60-3-18           162.036
60-3-19           162.037
60-4-1            162.050
60-4-2            162.051
60-4-3            162.052
60-4-4            162.053
60-4-5            162.054
60-4-6            162.055
60-4-7            162.056
60-4-8            162.057
60-5-1            162.070
60-5-2            162.071
60-5-3            162.072
60-5-4            162.073
60-5-5            162.074
60-5-6            162.075
60-5-7            162.076
60-5-8            162.077
60-6-1            162.090
60-6-2            162.091
60-6-3            162.092,
                  162.197
60-6-4            162.093
60-6-5            162.094
60-6-8            162.105
60-6-9            162.106
60-6-10           162.107
60-6-11           162.108
60-6-12           162.109
60-6-13.1         162.120
60-6-13.2         162.121
60-6-13.3         162.122
60-6-13.4         162.123
60-6-13.5         162.124
60-6-13.6         162.135
60-6-13.7         162.136
60-6-13.8         162.137
60-6-13.9         162.138
60-6-13.10        162.139
60-6-13.11        162.150
60-6-13.12        162.151
60-6-13.13        162.152
60-6-13.14        162.153
60-6-13.15        162.154
60-6-15           162.165
60-6-16           162.166
60-6-17           162.167
60-6-18           162.168
60-6-19           162.169
60-6-22           162.180
60-6-23           162.181
60-6-24           162.182
60-6-25           162.183
60-6-28           162.195
60-6-29           162.196
60-6-31           162.198
60-6-34           162.210
60-6-35           162.211
60-6-36           162.212
60-6-37           162.213
60-6-38           162.214
60-6-39           162.215
60-6-40           162.216
60-6-41           162.230
60-6-42           162.231
60-6-43           162.232
60-6-44           162.233
60-6-47           162.245
60-6-48           162.246
60-6-49           162.247
60-6-50           162.248
60-6-53           162.260
60-6-54           162.261
60-6-55           162.262
60-6-56           162.263
60-6-60           162.275
60-6-61           162.276
60-6-62           162.277
60-6-63           162.278
60-6-66           162.290
60-6-67           162.291
60-6-68           162.292
60-6-69           162.293
60-6-71           162.305
60-6-72           162.306
60-6-73           162.307
60-6-74           162.308
60-6-80           162.320
60-6-81           162.321
60-6-82           162.322
60-6-83           162.323
60-6-85           162.335
60-6-86           162.336
60-6-87           162.337
60-6-89           162.350
60-6-90           162.351
60-6-91           162.352
60-6-92           162.353
60-6-93           162.354
60-6-94           162.355
60-6-95           162.356
60-6-96           162.357
60-6-97           162.358
60-6-98           162.359
60-6-99           162.360
60-6-100          162.361
60-6-101          162.375
60-6-102          162.376
60-6-103          162.377
60-6-104          162.378
60-7-1            162.390
60-7-2            162.391
60-7-3            162.392
60-7-4            162.393
60-7-5            162.394
60-7-6            162.395
60-7-7            162.396
60-7-8            162.397
60-7-9            162.398
60-7-10           162.399
60-7-11           162.400
60-7-31           162.415
60-7-32           162.416
60-7-33           162.417
60-7-34           162.418
60-7-35           162.419
60-7-36           162.420
60-7-37           162.421
60-7-38           162.422
60-7-39           162.423
60-7-40           162.424
60-8-1            162.435
60-8-2            162.436
60-8-3            162.437
60-8-4            162.438
60-8-5            162.439
60-8-6            162.440
60-8-7            162.441
60-8-8            162.442
60-8-9            162.443
60-8-10           162.444
60-8-11           162.445
60-8-12           162.446
60-8-13           162.447
60-8-14           162.448
60-8-15           162.449
60-8-16           162.450
60-8-17           162.451
60-8-18           162.452
60-8-19           162.453
60-8-20           162.454
60-8-21           162.455
60-8-22           162.456
60-9-1            162.470
60-9-2            162.471
60-9-3            162.472
60-9-4            162.473
60-9-5            162.474
60-9-6            162.475
60-9-7            162.476
60-10-1           162.490
60-10-2           162.491
60-10-3           162.492
60-10-4           162.493
60-10-5           162.494
60-10-6           162.495
60-10-7           162.496
60-10-8           162.497
60-10-9           162.498
60-10-10          162.499
60-10-11          162.500
60-10-12          162.501
60-10-13          162.502
60-10-14          162.999
60-10-15          162.503
60-10-16          162.504
60-11-1           162.515
60-11-2           162.516
60-11-3           162.517
60-11-4           162.518
60-11-5           162.519
60-11-6           162.520
60-12-1           162.535
60-12-2           162.536
60-12-3           162.537
60-12-4           162.538
60-12-5           162.539
60-12-7           162.550
60-12-8           162.551
60-12-9           162.552
60-12-10          162.553
60-12-11          162.554
60-12-12          162.555
60-12-14          162.570
60-12-15          162.571
60-12-16          162.572
60-12-17          162.573
60-12-18          162.574
60-12-19          162.575
60-12-20          162.590
60-12-21          162.591
60-12-22          162.592
60-12-23          162.593
60-12-24          162.594
60-12-25          162.595
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed Code Section
-          8-17-1981   Ch. 76 Schd. V
56         - -         158.005
396        - -         162.491
1532       - -         158.059
1592       - -         32.098
1710       - -         33.048
                       121.11,
1768       - -         121.13,
                       121.26
1878       - -         33.047
1980       - -         121.14
2071       - -         31.038
2169       - -         31.031
2285       - -         32.150
2302       - -         92.07
2311       - -         31.030
2372       - -         31.035
2503       - -         31.012
2529       - -         33.022
2539       - -         31.032
2581       - -         121.05
2630       - -         116.28
2640       - -         32.168
                       150.02,
                       150.16,
                       150.17,
2641       - -         150.19,
                       150.30,
                       150.31,
                       150.99
2645       - -         150.18
2672       - -         31.032,
                       31.131
2677       - -         31.032
2681       - -         31.010
2687       - -         10.99
2688       - -         31.132
2697       - -         121.05
2711       - -         150.17
2723       - -         93.002
2781       - -         150.15
2823       - -         116.28
2846       - -         130.11,
                       130.99
2853       - -         121.05
2861       - -         130.15,
                       130.99
2870       - -         33.001
2877       - -         32.168
2886       - -         93.002
2892       - -         130.02
                       70.001—
                       70.008,
                       70.020—
                       70.028,
                       70.040—
                       70.047,
                       70.060,
                       70.075,
                       70.076,
                       70.999,
                       71.01—
2928       1-20-1970   71.08,
                       72.01—
                       72.15,
                       73.01—
                       73.33,
                       73.45—
                       73.52,
                       74.01—
                       74.16,
                       74.18,
                       74.30—
                       74.37,
                       74.99
2944       - -         93.002
2963       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. VI
2978       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. VI
2988       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. II
2992       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
2996       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
3002       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
3004       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
3009       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
3014       6-1-1971    34.042
3017       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
3018       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
3021       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
3027       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
3029       9-7-1971    74.02
3037       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
3038       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
3043       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
3049       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
3049       1-7-1972    74.02
3055       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
3056       - -         152.03
3059       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
3064       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. II
                       Ch. 75 Schd. IV,
3067       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
3071       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
3073       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
3083       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
3087       6-19-1972   116.28
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
3089       - -         IV,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
3092       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
3095       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. VI
3099       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
3104       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. II
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
3109       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
3111       - -         IV,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
3118       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
3121       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
3123       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. II
3127       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
3131       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
3134       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
3139       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
3141       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
3148       - -         III,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
3149       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
3150       6-18-1973   121.28
3154       7-16-1973   32.020
3155       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
3159       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
3161       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
3168       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
3175       10-29-1973  121.04
3179       11-30-1973  74.07
3185       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
3192       1-21-1974   34.001
3203       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       IV
3208       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
3209       3-18-1974   131.02
3220       4-15-1974   94.02,
                       94.99
3225       5-20-1974   30.20
3226       5-20-1974   91.31
3227       5-20-1974   158.128
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I,
3230       - -         II,
                       IV
3231       6-4-1974    158.110
3234       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. II
3236       7-1-1974    34.003,
                       34.004
3243       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
3246       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. II
3250       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
3256       10-22-1974  162.354
3258       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       IV
3260       11-19-1974  33.020
3262       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
                       31.005,
3264       12-2-1974   31.006,
                       31.010
3265       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
3267       12-2-1974   33.071
3275       12-30-1974  31.003
3276       12-30-1974  31.013
3277       12-30-1974  33.027
3278       12-30-1974  33.040
3279       12-31-1974  30.20
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
3283       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
3288       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
3290       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
3295       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
3296       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II,
                       IV
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
3302       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II,
                       IV
3302       - -         74.09
3303       8-18-1975   91.19
3304       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
3305       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
3309       9-15-1975   33.999
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
3314       - -         IV,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
3319       10-20-1975  121.05,
                       121.07
3320       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
3324       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
3327       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       V
3333       1-19-1976   130.18
3340       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
                       74.02,
3344       3-15-1976   74.14—
                       74.16
3352       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
3355       4-19-1976   162.215
3358       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
3362       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
3370       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
3376       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
3380       8-31-1976   130.18
3381       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
3384       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       IV
3387       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
3394       10-18-1976  33.001
3404       12-6-1976   31.039
3405       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       IV
3418       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
3425       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. II
                       155.001—
                       155.011,
                       155.025—
                       155.033,
                       155.045—
3427       3-7-1977    155.053,
                       155.065—
                       155.077,
                       155.090—
                       155.099,
                       155.999
3428       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
3434       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II,
                       IV
3437       6-20-1977   31.032
3439       6-27-1977   94.01
3446       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. II
3449       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. II
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
3452       - -         IV,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
3454       9-19-1977   130.02
3457       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. II
3461       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. V
3465       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. II
3468       11-8-1977   155.092—
                       155.099
3470       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
3471       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
3474       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. II
3475       1-30-1978   73.45
3475       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
3484       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
3492       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. II
3493       5-2-1978    130.06
3495       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
3498       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. III,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. II
3505       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
3511       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
3525       9-5-1978    50.100
3527       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
3537       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
3538       - -         152.07
3552       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
3563       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
3583       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
3597       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
3604       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
3615       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. II,
                       III
3630       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
3633       7-17-1979   50.002
3637       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       IV
3647       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
3648       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. II
3649       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
3659       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. II
3665       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. II
3672       - -         111.003
3679       1-7-1980    121.27,
                       121.28
3685       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
                       Ch. 75 Schd. IV,
3691       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
3692       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
3693       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
3694       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
3704       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. II
3705       5-5-1980    Ch. 76 Schd. VI
3707       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
3714       6-16-1980   162.474
3718       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
3722       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
3734       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. II
3744       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
3757       12-29-1980  Ch. 76 Schd. VI
3758       12-29-1980  162.030
3759       12-29-1982  130.12,
                       130.99
3760       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
3771       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
3779       3-16-1981   31.030
3784       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
3792       5-4-1981    34.040,
                       34.999
                       Ch. 75 Schd. IV,
3801       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       IV
3803       6-29-1981   130.18
3804       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. V
3810       7-21-1981   Ch. 76 Schd. V
3810       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
3814       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
3822       8-31-1981   94.01,
                       94.02
                       32.132—
3823       9-8-1981    32.134,
                       32.136
3825       9-8-1981    162.438,
                       162.439
3835       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
3843       12-7-1981   150.03
3844       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
3845       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II,
                       V
3852       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
3855       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
3859       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. V
3866       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. II
3867       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
3868       3-30-1982   34.040
3870       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       V
3881       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. II
3887       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
3890       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
3895       - -         IV,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
3924       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
3927       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. V
3935       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. IV,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
3942       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
3955       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
3962       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. V
3967       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. VI
3968       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
3973       8-1-1983    162.036
3978       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
3981       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
3994       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
4007       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
4016       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       VIII
4023       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
4032       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I,
4040       - -         II,
                       IV
4042       2-20-1984   50.085
                       50.117,
4043       2-21-1984   50.118,
                       50.999
                       152.01,
                       152.02,
4044       2-21-1984   152.04—
                       152.06,
                       152.99
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
4057       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
4059       4-16-1984   162.006,
                       162.168
4072       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. II
4081       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. IV
4085       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
                       162.006,
4094       9-4-1984    162.308,
                       162.323
4100       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
4101       10-1-1984   121.04
4114       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
4118       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       VI
                       Ch. 75 Schd. IV,
4124       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. II,
                       V
4135       12-31-1984  159.06
4138       1-7-1985    162.445
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
4140       - -         III,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
4148       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
4151       3-4-1985    73.45
4154       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
4171       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
4173       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
4194       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
4205       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
                       Ch. 75 Schd. III,
4222       - -         IV,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
4243       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
                       Ch. 75 Schd. VI,
4245       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
4255       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
4264       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
4271       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
4276       - -         VI,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       V
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
4287       - -         IV,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       VII
                       Ch. 75 Schd. IV,
4291       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
4299       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
4312       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. II,
                       V
4326       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
4337       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
4338       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
4366       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
4379       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
4380       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. II
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       V,
4398       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II,
                       V
4403       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       IV,
4410       - -         VIII,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
4427       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       VI,
4437       - -         V,
                       VIII,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. V
4437       8-17-1987   73.52
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
4451       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
4453       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
4455       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. IV
4457       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
4471       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
4475       12-21-1987  50.070
4479       1-18-1988   121.05
4484       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
4485       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. IV,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
4490       2-15-1988   93.058,
                       93.061
4491       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
4512       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       IV
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
4524       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       VII
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
4533       - -         IV,
                       V
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
4547       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
4553       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
4562       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
4566       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       IV
4570       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       VIII
4577       11-7-1988   50.041,
                       50.999
4590       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
4593       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. V
4603       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
4610       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
4614       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
4619       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
4625       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
4632       6-5-1989    162.399
4636       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
4655       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       V
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
4673       - -         IV,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
4673A      - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
                       162.006,
                       162.070—
                       162.077,
4674       9-18-1989   162.233,
                       162.248,
                       162.308,
                       162.323
4684       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
4687       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
4688       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
4697       - -         IV,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
4705       - -         162.168
4706       2-19-1990   150.34
4710       3-5-1990    150.03
4711       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. IV
4724       4-2-1990    31.007
4728       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
4740       5-21-1990   34.041
4750       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
4755       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
                       162.006,
4770       9-4-1990    162.214,
                       162.456
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
4772       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
4774       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
4775       10-1-1990   34.043,
                       34.999
4777       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
4782       10-29-1990  155.032
4786       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
                       31.002,
4788       11-19-1990  31.006,
                       31.010,
                       31.011
4792       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
4801       1-7-1991    30.02
4802       - -         74.18,
                       74.99
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
4817       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
4823       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
4828       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. IV
4832       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. II
4833       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. III,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. II
4838       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
4848       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
4861       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
4879       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. II
4888       10-7-1991   31.008
4889       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. VI,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
4895       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
4904       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
4914       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
4918       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
4922       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
4925A      - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
4933       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
4944       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. II
4945       4-6-1992    50.017
4947       5-4-1992    93.002
4949       5-4-1992    50.019,
                       50.020
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I,
4950       - -         IV,
                       VII
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I,
4959       - -         II,
                       IV
                       162.276,
4960       9-15-1992   162.277,
                       162.278,
                       162.446
4976       7-20-1992   153.09
4977       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. II
4981       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
4995       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       VII
4996       9-21-1992   50.017
                       Ch. 75 Schd. III,
4999       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       IV,
                       VII
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
5011       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. II,
                       IV
5013       11-16-1992  159.05
5019       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
5021       1-4-1993    121.06
5026       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       IV
5028       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
5035       3-1-1993    32.035—
                       32.041
5037       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
                       162.094,
                       162.169,
5039       - -         162.183,
                       162.232,
                       162.247,
                       162.277
5048       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
5070       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
5077       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
5086       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
5087       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
5088       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
5089       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
5090       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. IV
5092       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
5112       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       IV
5123       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. IV
5143       11-1-1993   50.002
5144       11-1-1993   31.032
                       91.16,
5145       11-1-1993   91.17,
                       91.19
5147       11-1-1993   31.032
5148       11-1-1993   70.007
5155       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
5159       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
5169       11-15-1993  30.01
                       156.01—
                       156.06,
5170       12-6-1993   156.20—
                       156.34,
                       156.99
5192       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. VII
5196       1-3-1994    162.248,
                       162.278
5198       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. V
5201       1-3-1994    31.036
5203       1-17-1994   50.003
5207       1-17-1994   30.17
                       156.05,
5218       2-7-1994    156.22,
                       156.31
5219       2-7-1994    Ch. 75 Schd. II
5220       2-7-1994    32.001—
                       32.003
                       Ch. 75 Schd. IV,
5225       2-21-1994   V,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       IV
5227       3-7-1994    Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. II
5228       3-7-1994    Ch. 76 Schd. I
5231       3-7-1994    162.006
5243       4-4-1994    Ch. 76 Schd. II
                       162.006,
5256       5-2-1994    162.168,
                       162.182
5273       6-20-1994   Ch. 75 Schd. II
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
5274       7-5-1994    V,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
5282       7-18-1994   Ch. 75 Schd. II
5306       9-6-1994    32.020
5312       9-19-1994   50.002
                       Ch. 75 Schd. VI,
5313       9-19-1994   Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       V
5314       9-19-1994   162.020,
                       162.378
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
5324       10-3-1994   IV,
                       V
                       162.093,
                       162.094,
                       162.108,
                       162.109,
                       162.168,
5326       10-3-1994   162.169,
                       162.182,
                       162.183,
                       162.197,
                       162.198,
                       162.394
5327       10-3-1994   162.361
5329       11-7-1994   155.071
5334       10-17-1994  50.042
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       V,
5341       11-21-1994  Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II,
                       VII
5344       12-5-1994   32.115
5351       12-5-1994   Ch. 75 Schd. II
5357       12-5-1994   Ch. 75 Schd. II
5359       12-5-1994   31.009
                       158.090,
5363       3-6-1995    158.091,
                       158.094—
                       158.098
                       162.357—
5370       1-17-1995   162.359,
                       162.361
5372       2-6-1995    Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
                       110.01—
                       110.11,
                       111.005,
                       111.020—
                       111.028,
                       111.090—
                       111.095,
                       113.002,
                       113.020—
                       113.030,
                       113.060—
                       113.064,
                       113.075—
                       113.077,
                       113.090—
                       113.099,
                       113.999,
5385       3-8-1995    114.01—
                       114.09,
                       114.20—
                       114.29,
                       114.99,
                       116.01—
                       116.07,
                       116.20—
                       116.40,
                       116.99,
                       117.15—
                       117.32,
                       118.01,
                       118.15—
                       118.19,
                       118.22,
                       118.23,
                       118.25,
                       118.99
5386       3-6-1995    112.03
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
5395       3-20-1995   VI,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. II,
                       VII
5396       3-20-1995   Ch. 76 Schd. I
5399       4-3-1995    Ch. 75 Schd. II
5419       4-17-1995   31.039
5420       4-24-1995   30.19
5427       5-15-1995   130.17,
                       130.99
5428       5-15-1995   162.006,
                       162.216
5429       5-15-1995   156.05,
                       156.30
5439       7-3-1995    Ch. 76 Schd. I
5445       8-7-1995    Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
5451       10-11-1995  162.006
5452       8-25-1995   130.13
5454       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
5461       9-5-1995    50.015
5462       9-5-1995    113.092
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
5463       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II,
                       VII
5464       9-5-1995    154.20
5467       10-2-1995   Ch. 75 Schd. II
                       Ch. 75 Schd. VI,
5468       10-2-1995   Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       IV,
                       V
5469       10-16-1995  119.99
5482       11-6-1995   Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       V
5490       11-6-1995   113.004
5493       6-3-1993    50.015
5501       1-16-1996   Ch. 75 Schd. II
5514       2-5-1996    Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
5515       2-19-1996   Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
5521       3-4-1996    121.06
5547       4-1-1996    118.01
                       162.006,
5548       4-1-1996    162.248,
                       162.278
5570       5-6-1996    Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
5584       6-18-1996   34.002
5586       5-20-1996   Ch. 75 Schd. III,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
5587       5-20-1996   34.001—
                       34.005
5589       6-5-1996    93.056,
                       93.057
5590       6-17-1996   130.14
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
5594       - -1996     Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II,
                       V
5600       6-18-1996   73.26
5600       6-17-1996   Ch. 76 Schd. II
                       92.01—
                       92.08,
                       92.20—
5602       7-1-1996    92.25,
                       92.27,
                       92.28,
                       92.99
5603       7-15-1996   Ch. 76 Schd. I
5615       9-3-1996    50.022
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
5616       9-3-1996    VIII,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. II
5617       9-3-1996    Ch. 76 Schd. II
5625       9-16-1996   162.392
5641       10-21-1996  31.112
5642       10-21-1996  155.002,
                       155.033
5643       10-21-1996  152.01,
                       152.06
5656       12-2-1996   154.22
5657       12-2-1997   70.008
                       51.001—
                       51.008,
                       51.020—
                       51.026,
                       51.040—
                       51.045,
                       51.060—
                       51.067,
                       51.080—
                       51.087,
5677       12-16-1996  51.100—
                       51.114,
                       51.125,
                       51.126,
                       51.140—
                       51.147,
                       51.160—
                       51.162,
                       51.175—
                       51.177,
                       51.999
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
5678       1-6-1997    Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       VII
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
5699       2-17-1997   Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II,
                       VII
5703       3-3-1997    Ch. 76 Schd. V
5704       3-17-1997   154.24,
                       154.25
5706       3-3-1997    158.140—
                       158.145
5707       3-17-1997   Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
5716       3-17-1997   31.039
5717       3-17-1997   74.17
                       74.18,
5726       4-7-1997    74.99,
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. VII
5727       4-21-1997   30.03
5730       5-5-1997    31.061
5732       5-5-1997    Ch. 76 Schd. I
5743       5-20-1997   92.06
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
5746       6-16-1997   III,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       IV
5747       7-21-1997   31.032
5752       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
5757       7-21-1997   121.25
5758       7-21-1997   111.025
5759       7-21-1997   10.99
5762       7-21-1997   152.99
5763       7-21-1997   93.999
5764       7-21-1997   153.99
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
5768       8-4-1997    Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       VI
5771       8-4-1997    113.063,
                       113.999
5786       8-18-1997   162.006
5793       10-6-1997   Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
5803       11-3-1997   Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
5814       12-1-1997   III,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. II
5820       12-1-1997   70.044
5830       1-20-1998   Ch. 76 Schd. II
                       162.093,
                       162.094,
                       162.108,
                       162.109,
                       162.168,
                       162.169,
                       162.182,
5831       1-5-1998    162.183,
                       162.198,
                       162.233,
                       162.248,
                       162.263,
                       162.278,
                       162.308,
                       162.323
5833       1-20-1998   74.17
5836       1-20-1998   92.09,
                       92.99
                       32.055—
5837       1-20-1998   32.062,
                       32.064—
                       32.080
5850       3-2-1998    Ch. 76 Schd. I
5852       3-16-1998   Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I,
5877       5-4-1998    II,
                       IV
5878       5-4-1998    110.03
5883       5-18-1998   34.044,
                       34.999
5884       6-15-1998   Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
5888       7-6-1998    Ch. 76 Schd. I
5895       7-20-1998   112.15—
                       112.26
5900       8-3-1998    Ch. 76 Schd. I
5904       9-8-1998    Ch. 76 Schd. I
5905       9-8-1998    Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
5921       10-19-1998  156.23
                       150.32,
5922       10-19-1998  150.35—
                       150.37
5924       10-20-1998  152.04,
                       152.05
5925       10-19-1998  153.07
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
5928       11-2-1998   Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
5930       11-16-1998  Ch. 76 Schd. II
5934       12- -1998   Ch. 75 Schd. II
5948       1-19-1999   130.13
5949       2-1-1999    Ch. 76 Schd. I
5958       3-1-1999    Ch. 76 Schd. I
                       93.021,
5963       3-1-1999    93.022,
                       93.025
5965       4-5-1999    Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
5975       4-19-1999   116.31
5976       4-19-1999   50.056
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
5984       5-17-1999   Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       IV
5987       6-7-1999    Ch. 76 Schd. I
5998       7-6-1999    32.116
5999       7-6-1999    Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
6024       8-16-1999   Ch. 76 Schd. I
6030       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
6033       7-17-2000   113.007,
                       113.999
6048       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
6057       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
                       162.248,
6075       1-3-2000    162.278,
                       162.308,
                       162.323
6091       3-20-2000   34.020—
                       34.028
6099       4-3-2000    Ch. 76 Schd. I
6100       4-3-2000    31.009
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
6126       5-2-2000    Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
                       162.248,
6131       5-1-2000    162.278,
                       162.308,
                       162.323
6132       5-1-2000    162.415—
                       162.424
6138       5-1-2000    162.504
6145       6-5-2000    Ch. 75 Schd. II
6164       7-3-2000    Ch. 75 Schd. V,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
6171       8-7-2000    Ch. 75 Schd. II
6198       9-5-2000    Ch. 76 Schd. I
6214       10-2-2000   Ch. 75 Schd. II
6224       11-6-2000   Ch. 75 Schd. II
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
6238       12-4-2000   V,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
6254       1-16-2001   34.060—
                       34.077
6255       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
6262       1-17-2001   157.06
6263       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
                       162.248,
                       162.263,
6264       2-5-2000    162.278,
                       162.308,
                       162.323
6268       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. VII
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I,
6274       - -         II,
                       IV
6275       5-7-2001    116.05,
                       116.99
6290       4-16-2001   50.015
6292       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. II
6299       5-21-2001   50.018
6300       5-21-2001   10.99
6308       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
6315       - -         Ch. 76 Schd. I
6323       9-4-2001    Ch. 75 Schd. II
6331       9-17-2001   31.062
6332       10-1-2001   Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
6338       10-1-2001   162.515,
                       162.570
6350       11-26-2001  94.03,
                       94.99
6351       12-3-2001   Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
6354       12-3-2001   151.45
6355       12-3-2001   111.001
6363       12-17-2001  Ch. 76 Schd. I
6371       1-7-2002    Ch. 75 Schd. II
6377       2-4-2002    Ch. 75 Schd. II
6382       2-4-2002    155.010
6385       2-18-2002   74.06,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. VIII
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I,
6395       3-4-2002    II,
                       VII
                       Ch. 75 Schd. V,
6406       4-1-2002    II,
                       VII
6408       4-1-2002    155.090
6409       4-1-2002    34.040,
                       34.044
6410       4-1-2002    121.10
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
6418       5-6-2002    III,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
6426       5-20-2002   154.17
6433       6-17-2002   151.14
6434       6-17-2002   91.19
6435       7-1-2002    Ch. 76 Schd. I
6445       7-15-2002   162.361
6449       8-5-2002    Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       IV
6451       8-19-2002   30.15
6456       8-19-2002   110.12
6458       9-3-2002    Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
6467       10-7-2002   Ch. 75 Schd. II
6476       11-4-2002   Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
6484       11-18-2002  31.014
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
6486       12-2-2002   Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       VII
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
6502       1-21-2003   Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
6506       2-3-2003    92.09,
                       92.99
6507       2-3-2003    152.05
6508       2-3-2003    Ch. 75 Schd. II
6518       3-3-2003    Ch. 76 Schd. I
6521       4-7-2003    Ch. 76 Schd. I
6535       4-22-2003   91.45—
                       91.52
6563       9-2-2003    Ch. 76 Schd. I
6568       10-6-2003   Ch. 76 Schd. I
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
6590       11-3-2003   Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       VII
                       157.01—
6591       11-3-2003   157.12,
                       157.99
6599       12-1-2003   Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       VII
6604       12-15-2003  130.08
6608       1-5-2004    Ch. 76 Schd. I
6617       1-20-2004   Ch. 76 Schd. I
6620       2-2-2004    Ch. 75 Schd. II
6624       3-1-2004    Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       II
6645       5-3-2004    150.37
6646       5-3-2004    111.055
6650       5-3-2004    31.015
6651       5-17-2004   Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. II
6653       6-7-2004    Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
6660       7-6-2004    130.18
6669       9-7-2004    Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
6670       8-2-2004    150.38
6672A      8-16-2004   Ch. 76 Schd. I
6673       8-2-2004    162.024
6674       10-4-2004   Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. II
6676       8-16-2004   119.01
6685       10-18-2004  74.04
6686       10-18-2004  158.004
6697       12-20-2005  Ch. 76 Schd. VII
6714       - -2005     Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
6715       3-7-2005    Ch. 75 Schd. II
6724       4-4-2005    Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
6733       5-2-2005    Ch. 76 Schd. I
6739       5-16-2005   162.232,
                       162.247
6745       6-6-2005    94.01,
                       94.99
6749       6-6-2005    Ch. 76 Schd. VII
6754       7-5-2005    Ch. 76 Schd. II
6756       7-18-2005   Ch. 76 Schd. I
6759       7-18-2005   33.016,
                       33.018
6762       8-1-2005    121.03
6769       8-15-2005   Ch. 75 Schd. II
6770       9-6-2005    Ch. 76 Schd. I
6772       9-19-2005   121.04
6774       9-19-2005   Ch. 75 Schd. II
6776       10-3-2005   50.056
6777       10-3-2005   Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
6787       11-7-2005   Ch. 76 Schd. IV
6788       11-7-2005   30.21
6789       11-7-2005   162.034
6803       12-5-2005   Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
6805       12-19-2005  33.015
6806       12-19-2005  158.016
6812       1-3-2006    94.01,
                       94.04
6813       1-17-2006   Ch. 76 Schd. I
6821       2-20-2006   158.019
6837       3-6-2006    Ch. 75 Schd. II
6843       3-20-2006   113.061
6847       3-20-2006   154.15
6852       4-3-2006    Ch. 75 Schd. II
6853       4-3-2006    121.06
6866       4-17-2006   50.072
6869       5-1-2006    Ch. 76 Schd. I
6873       6-5-2006    Ch. 76 Schd. I
6877       6-5-2006    153.05
                       93.080—
6880       8-7-2006    93.089,
                       93.999
6884       7-3-2006    Ch. 76 Schd. II
6908       8-7-2006    Ch. 75 Schd. II
6911       8-21-2006   50.004
6912       8-21-2006   50.004
6915       9-5-2006    154.01
6919       9-18-2006   50.004
6920       10-2-2006   Ch. 75 Schd. II
6925       11-6-2006   94.01,
                       94.99
6926       11-6-2006   34.045
6945       1-2-2007    74.99
6964       2-5-2007    Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. II
6972       3-5-2007    Ch. 76 Schd. I
6979       4-2-2007    Ch. 75 Schd. II
6987       4-30-2007   30.19
6989       5-21-2007   50.072
6996       6-18-2007   34.043
7004       7-2-2007    Ch. 75 Schd. IV
7011       8-6-2007    Ch. 75 Schd. II
7015       9-4-2007    Ch. 76 Schd. VII
7023       9-4-2007    Ch. 76 Schd. I
                       120.01—
7035       9-17-2007   120.06,
                       120.99
                       93.100—
7036       11-6-2007   93.102,
                       93.999
7037       10-1-2007   Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       V
7039       11-5-2007   Ch. 75 Schd. II
7055       11-19-2007  30.16
7056       11-20-2007  31.106
7057       11-20-2007  31.039
7066       1-8-2008    90.25—
                       90.32
7067       1-7-2008    Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. IV
7076       1-23-2008   150.33
7078       1-23-2008   111.003
7079       1-22-2008   111.003
7084       - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
7086       2-19-2008   10.11
                       158.030—
7087       2-19-2008   158.043,
                       158.999
7089       3-17-2008   121.06,
                       121.07
7096       4-8-2008    150.99
7098       4-8-2008    152.99
7099       4-8-2008    93.999
7100       4-8-2008    130.10,
                       130.99
7101       4-8-2008    154.99
7102       4-8-2008    162.999
7106       4-8-2008    121.09
7123       4-22-2008   92.23
7125       4-21-2008   93.002,
                       93.003
                       110.25—
7127       4-22-2008   110.41,
                       110.99
                       161.001—
                       161.003,
                       161.015—
                       161.024,
                       161.035—
7128       4-28-2008   161.037,
                       161.050—
                       161.053,
                       161.065—
                       161.072,
                       161.085—
                       161.090
7129       5-5-2008    Ch. 75 Schd. II
7130       5-6-2008    162.092
7146       7-8-2008    93.055
7147       7-8-2008    120.03
7150       7-8-2008    33.071
7161       8-4-2008    Ch. 75 Schd. IV
                       162.006,
                       162.094,
                       162.109,
                       162.139,
                       162.154,
                       162.167,
                       162.169,
7174       8-18-2008   162.181,
                       162.183,
                       162.198,
                       162.214,
                       162.233,
                       162.248,
                       162.263,
                       162.278,
                       162.504
7176       9-2-2008    Ch. 75 Schd. II
7182       10-6-2008   Ch. 76 Schd. I
7187       10-20-2008  162.473
7197       10-20-2008  158.129
7198       12-1-2008   162.006
7199       10-20-2008  130.19
7200       11-3-2008   162.504
7207       12-15-2008  158.999
7208       12-15-2008  Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
7211       12-15-2008  130.20,
                       130.99
7212       1-5-2009    33.085
7213       1-5-2009    93.002
                       112.40—
7214       1-5-2009    112.54,
                       112.99
                       162.520,
7215       1-5-2009    162.575,
                       162.595
                       113.001,
7216       1-5-2009    113.091,
                       113.092
                       90.01—
7217       1-5-2009    90.13,
                       90.99
7218       1-5-2009    Ch. 75 Schd. II
7219       1-20-2009   162.006,
                       162.441
7232       3-2-2009    Ch. 75 Schd. II
7245       4-6-2009    91.30—
                       91.33
7258       4-20-2009   113.006,
                       113.999
7265       6-2-2009    Ch. 75 Schd. II
7267       6-15-2009   Ch. 75 Schd. II
                       162.169,
7278       6-15-2009   162.442,
                       162.448
7279       6-15-2009   120.06
7296       8-3-2009    Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
7297       8-17-2009   111.094
7300       8-17-2009   150.37
                       151.25,
7301       8-17-2009   151.28,
                       151.29
7302       8-17-2009   130.03,
                       130.99
7311       9-21-2009   50.004
7312       10-5-2009   Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. VII
7327       11-2-2009   Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
7343       12-21-2009  160.01—
                       160.06
7346       1-4-2010    92.25
7347       1-4-2010    Ch. 75 Schd. II
7348       1-19-2010   90.06
                       162.305,
7352       2-16-2010   162.306,
                       162.320—
                       162.322
7357       2-16-2010   Ch. 76 Schd. I
                       33.040—
                       33.043,
                       33.045—
7362       3-15-2010   33.048,
                       33.060,
                       33.063—
                       33.065,
                       33.067
7376       4-5-2010    92.22
7395       6-7-2010    Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       VII
                       151.08,
                       151.40—
7408       7-6-2010    151.46,
                       151.48,
                       151.49
7409       7-6-2010    130.07
7416       7-19-2010   Ch. 75 Schd. II
7417       7-19-2010   130.07,
                       130.99
7418       8-2-2010    Ch. 76 Schd. I
7425       8-16-2010   33.087
7429       9-7-2010    32.040
7437       10-4-2010   50.004
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II,
7445       11-15-2010  Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       VII
7464       12-6-2010   Ch. 75 Schd. III
7470       2-7-2011    Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
7476       3-7-2011    Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. IV
7481       4-4-2011    70.075,
                       70.076
                       74.30—
7483       4-18-2011   74.37,
                       74.99
7484       9-14-2011   50.004
7485       4-18-2011   50.004
7497       6-6-2011    Ch. 76 Schd. I
7499       6-6-2011    Ch. 75 Schd. III
7502       7-5-2011    Ch. 76 Schd. I
7503       7-5-2011    91.52
7504       7-5-2011    130.17,
                       130.99
7505       7-5-2011    130.09,
                       130.99
7510       7-5-2011    150.01
7511       8-1-2011    Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
7516       10-3-2011   Ch. 76 Schd. I
7517       10-4-2010   50.004
7518       9-6-2011    Ch. 76 Schd. I
7524       9-19-2011   34.041
7527       10-3-2011   162.504
                       162.503,
                       162.517,
7537       10-3-2011   162.553,
                       162.572,
                       162.592
7539       11-7-2011   Ch. 75 Schd. IV,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. VII
7549       12-5-2011   Ch. 76 Schd. I
7550       12-19-2011  50.004,
                       50.999
7555       12-19-2011  Ch. 76 Schd. IV
7559       1-3-2012    Ch. 75 Schd. II
7563       1-17-2012   50.021,
                       50.999
7565       2-6-2012    Ch. 76 Schd. I
7566       2-6-2012    Ch. 75 Schd. II
7567       2-6-2012    Ch. 76 Schd. I
7574       2-21-2012   50.004
                       111.040—
7590       4-2-2012    111.055,
                       111.999
7594-2012  4-30-2012   30.02
7595       5-7-2012    50.004
7603       6-4-2012    Ch. 76 Schd. I
                       Ch. 76 Schd. II,
7605       6-4-2012    IV,
                       VII
7610       6-4-2012    33.085
7613       8-6-2012    Ch. 75 Schd. II
7622       8-6-2012    90.12
7623       9-4-2012    Ch. 75 Schd. II
7633       10-15-2012  50.017
                       162.006,
7634       10-15-2012  162.169,
                       162.183,
                       162.233
7637       10-15-2012  Ch. 75 Schd. II
7642       11-19-2012  50.004
7648       11-19-2012  111.025
7649       11-19-2012  131.03
7652       12-10-2012  162.262
7653       12-3-2012   Ch. 75 Schd. II
7656       1-7-2013    Ch. 75 Schd. II
7663       1-7-2013    111.999
                       154.15,
7667       2-19-2013   154.16,
                       154.18
7676A      4-15-2013   Ch. 76 Schd. I
                       31.009,
7686       5-6-2013    31.031,
                       31.130
7694       7-1-2013    Ch. 76 Schd. IV
                       121.12,
7697       7-15-2013   121.29,
                       162.400
7698       7-15-2013   94.01
7699       7-15-2013   Ch. 76 Schd. II
7704       8-19-2013   34.041
7711       9-3-2013    90.13
7713       9-3-2013    Ch. 75 Schd. II
                       154.40—
                       154.45,
7715       9-16-2013   154.47—
                       154.55,
                       154.99
7720       10-7-2013   Ch. 75 Schd. II
7725       11-4-2013   Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       IV
7731       12-2-2013   Ch. 76 Schd. I
7732       12-2-2013   50.015
7744       1-21-2014   31.016
                       155.011,
                       155.053,
7749       2-18-2014   155.066,
                       155.075,
                       155.076
7750       2-18-2014   30.01,
                       30.22
                       113.090—
7752       3-3-2014    113.099,
                       162.248
7753       3-3-2014    Ch. 76 Schd. VII
7782       6-2-2014    Ch. 75 Schd. II
7784       6-17-2014   121.04
7786       6-16-2014   112.42
7787       7-7-2014    162.307
7800       8-4-2014    Ch. 76 Schd. I
7817       11-3-2014   162.006
7819       11-17-2014  117.01—
                       117.04
7820       11-17-2014  34.046,
                       34.999
                       150.03,
7821       11-17-2014  150.16,
                       151.03,
                       151.06
7830       12-16-2014  32.020
                       150.38,
                       151.05,
7831       12-16-2014  151.06,
                       151.08,
                       151.45
7832       12-15-2014  Ch. 75 Schd. II
7839       1-6-2015    Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. II
7841       1-20-2015   34.090—
                       34.101
7857       5-18-2015   50.004
                       110.25—
7858       5-18-2015   110.41,
                       110.99
7875       7-6-2015    Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
7883       8-3-2015    Ch. 75 Schd. II
7885       8-17-2015   151.05
                       118.21,
7886       8-17-2015   121.04,
                       121.06
7887       8-17-2015   111.095
7889       8-17-2015   Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. I
7893       9-8-2015    34.043
7896       10-5-2015   Ch. 76 Schd. I,
                       Ch. 76 Schd. VII
                       92.21,
7898       10-19-2015  92.23,
                       92.25
7903       11-2-2015   Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                       Ch. 75 Schd. II
                       91.31,
7910       11-16-2015  91.32,
                       91.33,
                       91.50
7911       11-16-2015  121.06
7913       11-16-2015  130.06,
                       130.99
7922       12-21-2015  33.028
7927       1-19-2016   34.040,
                       34.046
7928       2-1-2016    34.044
7936       3-21-2016   94.01,
                       94.99
7946       4-18-2016   50.004
7950       5-2-2016    Ch. 75 Schd. II
                       31.075—
                       31.078,
7951-2016  5-16-2016   31.080—
                       31.086,
                       34.002
7956-2016  6-6-2016    Ch. 75 Sch. II,
                       Ch. 76 Sch. I
7965-2016  6-27-2016   Ch. 75 Sch. II,
                       Ch. 75 Sch. III
7966-2016  7-5-2016    130.17,
                       130.99
7967-2016  7-5-2016    162.400
7970-2016  7-18-2016   50.015,
                       50.017
7977-2016  8-15-2016   50.004
7985-2016  9-6-2016    Ch. 75 Sch. II
7987-2016  10-3-2016   Ch. 76, Sch. I
7990-2016  11-8-2016   Adopting Ordinance
7995-2016  11-21-2016  Ch. 75 Sch. II
                       118.16,
8010-2017  2-6-2017    118.21,
                       121.06
8011-2017  1-17-2017   30.01, Repeals 31.037, 31.079, 32.005
8021-2017  3-20-2017   31.055—
                       31.059
8022-2017  3-20-2017   113.001, Repeals 113.003, 113.005
8023-2017  3-20-2017   111.060—
                       111.066
8025-2017  3-20-2017   50.015,
                       50.017
8038-2017  4-3-2017    Repeals 119.15—119.36
8039-2017  4-3-2017    162.504
8040-2017  4-3-2017    Ch. 75 Sch. II,
                       Ch. 76 Sch VII
                       32.180—
8047-2017  5-15-2017   32.182,
                       34.120,
                       34.121
8060-2017  6-19-2017   92.22
8067-2017  7-3-2017    111.091
                       115.01—
8068-2017  7-17-2017   115.15,
                       115.99,
                       118.02, Repeals Ch. 116
                       30.19,
8070-2017  7-17-2017   32.037,
                       32.115,
                       32.116
                       154.40—
                       154.45,
8071-2017  7-17-2017   154.47—
                       154.56,
                       154.99
8078-2017  8-7-2017    111.096
8100-2017  9-5-2017    Ch. 76 Schd. I
8102-2017  9-18-2017   34.041
8103-2017  9-18-2017   92.22
8104-2017  9-18-2017   Ch. 76 Schd. I
8105-2017  10-2-2017   34.130
                       33.101 ,
8107-2017  1-2-2018    33.104 —
                       31.106
8116-2017  10-16-2017  Ch. 75 Schd. II
                       90.06,
8118-2017  11-6-2017   90.50,
                       90.51
8119-2017  11-6-2017   111.091
8141-2017  12-18-2017  31.017
8159-2018  1-15-2018   31.009,
                       31.031
8160-2018  1-15-2018   113.008
8171–20182-20-2018   Ch. 76 Schd. IV
8172-2018  2-20-2018   154.46
                       51.001—
                       51.008,
                       51.020—
                       51.026,
                       51.040—
                       51.045,
                       51.060—
                       51.067,
                       51.080—
                       51.087,
                       51.100—
8173-2018  2-21-2018   51.114,
                       51.125,
                       51.126,
                       51.140—
                       51.147,
                       51.160—
                       51.162,
                       51.175—
                       51.177,
                       51.999,
                       Ch. 51, Appendix A,
                       Ch. 51, Appendix B,
                       Ch. 51, Appendix C
8174-2018  2-20-2018   121.28
8175-2018  2-20-2018   118.16
                       111.004,
8176-2018  3-19-2018   121.03,
                       121.06
                       122.01—
8183-2018  4-2-2018    122.13,
                       122.99
8186-2018  4-16-2018   33.024
                       32.004,
8187-2018  4-16-2018   91.15,
                       94.05, Repeals 32.005
8192-2018  5-7-2018    50.004
8193-2018  4-16-2018   Ch. 75 Schd. V
8194-2018  4-16-2018   Ch. 76 Schd. IV
8195-2018  4-16-2018   Ch. 76 Schd. I
8197-2018  5-7-2018    50.004
8202-2018  5-7-2018    Adopting Ordinance
8203-2018  5-21-2018   Ch. 76 Schd. I
8208-2018  6-18-2018   74.38
                       77.01—
8209-2018  6-18-2018   77.05,
                       77.99
8210-2018  6-18-2018   112.42 
8213-2018  7-16-2018   163.01—
                       163.06
8235-2018  8-20-2018   111.001,
                       111.094
                       158.091,
                       158.092,
8236-2018  8-20-2018   158.095,
                       158.097,
                       158.098,
                       Ch. 158, Appendix A
8237-2018  8-20-2018   154.99
8238-2018  8-20-2018   154.46
8249-2018  9-17-2018   Ch. 75 Schd. II
8250-2018  9-17-2018   Ch. 76 Schd. VII
8253-2018  10-1-2018   157.10,
                       162.036
8255-2018  10-1-2018   113.001
8266-2018  10-15-2018  162.430—
                       162.433
8269-2018  10-15-2018  Ch. 76 Schd. V
8275-2018  11-19-2018  Ch. 75 Schd. V
                       162.094,
                       162.109,
                       162.124,
                       162.139,
                       162.154,
                       162.169,
                       162.183,
8283-2018  12-3-2018   162.198,
                       162.214,
                       162.233,
                       162.248,
                       162.263,
                       162.278,
                       162.308,
                       162.323,
                       162.378
8289-2018  12-17-2018  Ch. 119,
                       119.99
8290-2018  12-17-2018  31.017
8291-2018  12-17-2018  94.01
8302-2019  2-19-2019   70.044
8310-2019  3-18-2019   33.107
8311-2019  3-18-2019   121.06
8312-2019  3-18-2019   110.04
8313-2019  3-18-2019   150.37,
                       150.38
8314-2019  3-18-2019   Ch. 76 Schd. VII
8315-2019  3-18-2019   Ch. 76 Schd. IV
8316-2019  3-18-2019   Ch. 76 Schd. I
8344-2019  6-17-2019   Ch. 75 Schd. II
8345-2019  6-17-2019   Ch. 75 Schd. II
8348-2019  7-15-2019   94.01
8363-2019  8-19-2019   Ch. 75 Schd. II
                       32.057 -
8369-2019  9-17-2019   32.060,
                       32.065,
                       32.067
8370-2019  9-17-2019   162.357,
                       162.358
                       154.46,
8371-2019  9-17-2019   154.48,
                       154.50,
                       154.52
8372-2019  9-17-2019   Adopting Ordinance
8376-2019  9-30-2019   34.047
8396-2019  11-19-2019  50.056
8397-2019  11-19-2019  117.01
8398-2019  12-3-2019   33.085
                       123.001-
8401-2019  12-19-2019  123.015,
                       123.99
                       162.233,
                       162.248,
8404-2019  12-19-2019  162.263,
                       162.278,
                       162.308,
                       162.323
8405-2019  12-19-2019  162.308,
                       162.323
8406-2019  12-19-2019  162.308,
                       162.323
8409-2019  12-19-2019  162.323
                       124.01—
8410-2020  1-21-2020   124.05,
                       124.99
8411-2020  1-21-2020   150.32,
                       150.38
                       151.02,
                       151.06—
                       151.08,
                       151.11,
                       151.12,
                       151.14,
8412-2020  1-21-2020   151.28,
                       151.29,
                       151.40,
                       151.43,
                       151.44,
                       151.46,
                       151.48,
                       151.49
8413-2020  1-21-2020   50.004
8414-2020  1-21-2020   Ch. 76 Schd. I
8423-2020  2-18-2020   Ch. 76 Schd. VII
8429-2020  3-2-2020    Ch. 75 Schd. II
8430-2020  3-2-2020    Ch. 75 Schd. II
8432-2020  3-2-2020    151.28,
                       151.29
                       154.40,
                       154.41,
                       154.45,
8433-2020  3-2-2020    154.46,
                       154.50,
                       154.52,
                       154.54,
                       154.55
8434-2020  3-16-2020   92.25
8435-2020  3-16-2020   123.008
8436-2020  3-26-2020   130.15
8841-2020  7-6-2020    50.004
8856-2020  7-20-2020   Ch. 76 Schd. V
8863-2020  8-17-2020   74.02
8864-2020  8-17-2020   124.04
8865-2020  8-17-2020   130.03
8870-2020  9-21-2020   Ch. 76 Schd. I
8873-2020  9-21-2020   Ch. 76 Schd. IV
8880-2020  10-19-2020  32.059
8881-2020  10-19-2020  151.02
8882-2020  10-19-2020  Ch. 75 Schd. III
8883-2020  10-19-2020  Ch. 76 Schd. VII
8884-2020  10-19-2020  Ch. 76 Schd. VII
8885-2020  10-19-2020  Ch. 75 Schd. I
8888-2020  11-16-2020  Ch. 75 Schd. II
8889-2020  11-16-2020  Ch. 76 Schd. VII
8902-2020  12-21-2020  Ch. 76 Schd. VII
8912-2021  2-16-2021   123.007,
                       123.008
8915-2021  3-15-2021   50.004
8923-2021  3-15-2021   93.003
8924-2021  3-15-2021   150.01
8936-2021  4-19-2021   Ch. 75 Schd. II
8937-2021  4-19-2021   Ch. 76 Schd. I
8938-2021  4-19-2021   121.06
8948-2021  5-17-2021   Ch. 76 Schd. I
8949-2021  5-17-2021   150.30
8950-2021  5-17-2021   30.19
8953-2021  6-21-2021   77.05
8954-2021  6-21-2021   90.27
8955-2021  6-21-2021   73.33
8956-2021  6-21-2021   31.009
8957-2021  6-21-2021   31.007,
                       34.005
8958-2021  6-21-2021   32.190
8960-2021  7-6-2021    Ch. 76 Schd. I
8968-2021  7-19-2021   74.36,
                       94.01
8969-2021  7-19-2021   31.007,
                       34.005
8970-2021  7-19-2021   31.031,
                       31.130
                       118.15—
8971-2021  7-19-2021   118.26,
                       118.99
8973-2021  7-19-2021   Ch. 76 Schd. IV
8981-2021  8-16-2021   94.01
8982-2021  8-16-2021   Ch. 75 Schd. II
8993-2021  9-21-2021   Ch. 76 Schd. VII
8994-2021  10-19-2021  93.020,
                       Ch. 158 App. A
                       118.15—
8995-2021  10-4-2021   118.26,
                       118.99
8996-2021  10-18-2021  110.31
8997-2021  11-1-2021   130.01
                       154.40,
8998-2021  11-1-2021   154.41,
                       154.45,
                       154.46
8999-2021  11-1-2021   Ch. 76 Schd. II
9018-2021  12-20-2021  91.32
9019-2021  12-20-2021  92.22
9030-2022  2-22-2022   31.006
9031-2022  2-22-2022   154.15
9039-2022  5-2-2022    50.004
9040-2022  5-2-2022    121.04
9041-2022  5-2-2022    154.45
9042-2022  5-2-2022    74.02,
                       74.04
9043-2022  5-2-2022    93.082
9044-2022  5-2-2022    150.38
9046-2022  5-16-2022   93.080
9049-2022  5-16-2022   Ch. 76 Schd. I
                       162.248,
9055-2022  5-16-2022   162.278,
                       162.308,
                       162.323
9056-2022  5-16-2022   162.570
9058-2022  6-21-2022   30.19
9059-2022  6-21-2022   33.025
9078-2022  8-15-2022   121.08
                       162.247,
9090-2022  10-3-2022   162.248,
                       162.277,
                       162.278
9092-2022  10-17-2022  92.26
9093-2022  10-17-2022  32.036
9094-2022  11-7-2022   Ch. 76 Schd. VII
9095-2022  11-7-2022   33.103
                       162.006,
                       162.168,
9097-2022  11-7-2022   162.233,
                       162.247,
                       162.263,
                       162.277
9098-2022  11-21-2022  Ch. 76 Schd. I
9099-2022  11-21-2022  Ch. 75 Schd. II
9100-2022  11-21-2022  Ch. 75 Schd. IV
9102-2022  12-5-2022   162.354–
                       162.361
9105-2022  12-19-2022  50.023
9115-2022  12-19-2022  162.503
9124-2023  2-6-2023    162.278,
                       162.504
9127-2023  2-21-2023   34.043
9130-2023  3-6-2023    33.040,
                       33.043
9131-2023  3-6-2023    150.38
9135-2023  3-20-2023   Ch. 76 Schd. II
9136-2023  3-20-2023   Ch. 75 Schd. II
9139-2023  4-3-2023    158.129 -
                       158.131
9158-2023  6-5-2023    Ch. 76 Schd. VII
9159-2023  6-5-2023    31.009,
                       31.031
9160-2023  6-5-2023    117.50–117.55
9165-2023  6-20-2023   34.048
9166-2023  6-20-2023   123.006
9168-2023  6-20-2023   111.001
9173-2023  7-3-2023    162.248
                       162.006,
9175-2023v 7-3-2023    162.248,
                       162.278,
                       162.401
9178-2023  8-7-2023    111.004
9179-2023  8-7-2023    111.004,
                       121.06
                       162.006,
                       162.247,
                       162.248,
9182-2023  8-7-2023    162.263,
                       162.277,
                       162.278,
                       162.308,
                       162.323
                       90.06,
9189-2023  9-18-2023   90.60–
                       90.72
                       162.232,
                       162.233,
                       162.247,
9203-2023  10-16-2023  162.248,
                       162.262,
                       162.263,
                       162.277,
                       162.278
9204-2023  10-16-2023  Ch. 75, Schd. II
9205-2023  10-16-2023  Ch. 76, Schd. VII
9206-2023  10-16-2023  Ch. 76, Schd. I
9217-2023  11-6-2023   162.474,
                       162.475
9221-2023  11-20-2023  Ch. 76, Schds. II,
                       V
9222-2023  11-20-2023  Ch. 75, Schd. II
9224-2023  11-20-2023  121.04
9238-2024  1-2-2024    162.361
                       162.006,
                       162.233,
9239-2024  1-2-2024    162.248,
                       162.263,
                       162.278
9240-2023  1-2-2024    162.006,
                       162.307
9243-2024  2-5-2024    115.02
9249-2024  2-20-2024   Ch. 76, Schd. I
9250-2024  2-20-2024   Ch. 75, Schd. II
9253-2024  3-3-2024    92.22
9260-2024  3-18-2024   Ch. 76, Schd. I
9261-2024  3-19-2024   30.19
9263-2024  4-1-2024    150.32
9264-2024  4-1-2024    50.021,
                       92.23
9265-2024  4-1-2024    33.049
9279-2024  5-20-2024   Ch. 75, Schd. II
9281-2024  5-20-2024   Ch. 76, Schd. II
9293-2024  7-1-2024    Ch. 76, Schd. II
9294-2024  7-1-2024    Ch. 76, Schd. II
9301-2024  7-15-2024   162.028
9306-2024  8-19-2024   Ch. 76, Schd. II
9307-2024  8-19-2024   Ch. 76, Schd. II
9313-2024  9-3-2024    162.006,
                       162.570
9315-2024  9-16-2024   Ch. 76, Schd. II
9316-2024  9-16-2024   73.16
                       162.006,
                       162.094,
                       162.169,
                       162.183,
9322-2024  10-7-2024   162.233,
                       162.248,
                       162.263,
                       162.278,
                       162.402
9330-2024  11-4-2024   Ch. 75, Schd. I
9331-2024  11-4-2024   30.19
9338-2024  11-4-2024   Ch. 76, Schd. II
                       130.03,
9339-2024  11-4-2024   130.21,
                       130.99
9340-2024  11-4-2024   113.040–
                       113.056
9342-2024  11-18-2024  50.004
9346-2024  11-18-2024  116.50–
                       116.58
                       91.01,
                       91.15,
                       91.18,
                       91.19,
9347-2024  11-18-2024  91.31–
                       91.33,
                       91.45–
                       91.50,
                       91.52
9351-2024  12-2-2024   162.503
9355-2024  11-4-2024   Sch. 75, Schd. II
9365-2025  1-21-2025   32.059,
                       32.071
9366-2025  2-18-2025   31.018
9367-2025  3-3-2025    94.01
9368-2025  3-17-2025   110.39
9369-2025  3-17-2025   123.002,
                       123.015
9378-2025  4-21-2025   Ch. 76, Sch. IV
9379-2025  4-21-2025   Ch. 76, Sch. VII
9382-2025  5-19-2025   Ch. 76, Sch. I
9383-2025  5-19-2025   Ch. 76, Sch. II
9384-2025  5-19-2025   Ch. 76, Sch. II
9385-2025  5-19-2025   Ch. 75, Sch. VII
9394-2025  6-16-2025   50.004
9396-2025  6-16-2025   111.004
                      
 
