VILLAGE CODE
of
BLOOMINGDALE, ILLINOIS
2012
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-24, passed 5-27-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588
www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the Village of Bloomingdale, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 2025-24, passed May 27, 2025.
Ordinances of the Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions
of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular
provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
 
ORDINANCE NUMBER 2025-34
 
 
AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING TITLE 7 (MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC) OF THE VILLAGE CODE OF THE
VILLAGE OF BLOOMINGDALE, AS AMENDED;
(IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES; ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTY)
 
 
 
 
FRANCO A. COLADIPIETRO, Mayor
 
PAMELA S. HAGER, Village Clerk
 
VINCE ACKERMAN
WILLIAM BELMONTE
FRANK BUCARO
PATRICK SHANNON
DAN VITACCO
JUDI VON HUBEN
 
Village Board
 
 
 
 
 
Published in pamphlet form by authority of the
President and the Board of Trustees of the Village of Bloomingdale
on this 14th day of July, 2025
 
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-34
 
AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING TITLE 7 (MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC) OF THE VILLAGE CODE OF THE
VILLAGE OF BLOOMINGDALE, AS AMENDED;
(IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES; ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTY)
 
   WHEREAS, the Village of Bloomingdale, DuPage County, Illinois (the
“Village”) is a home rule unit of local government under Article VII, Section 6
of the 1970 Illinois Constitution and, except as limited by such Section, it
may exercise any power and perform any function pertaining to its government
and affairs;
   WHEREAS, the Illinois Constitution of 1970 provides that a Home Rule Unit
may exercise any power and perform any function pertaining to its government
and affairs, including but not limited to the power to regulate for the
protection of the public health, safety, morals and welfare; to license, to
tax; and to incur debt;
   WHEREAS, the Village has in full force and effect a codified set of those
ordinances of the Village which are of a general and permanent nature, which
said codified set is known and designated as the Village Code of the Village of
Bloomingdale, as amended;
   WHEREAS, Title 7 of the Village Code governs the use of motor vehicles and
provides general traffic regulations and related penalty and fee schedules
within the Village;
   WHEREAS, the Village desires to modify certain fee schedules concerning the
impoundment of vehicles by amending Title 7 (Motor Vehicles and Traffic)
Chapter 7 (Impoundment of Vehicles) Section 7-7-3 (Administrative Penalty;
Vehicle Possession) of the Village Code;
   WHEREAS, the Corporate Authorities of the Village of Bloomingdale are of the
opinion that the foregoing actions are in the best interest of the public
safety, health and welfare of the residents of the Village of Bloomingdale.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Village President and Board of
Trustees of the Village of Bloomingdale, DuPage County, Illinois as follows:
Section One – Recitals
   The Corporate Authorities hereby find that all of the recitals hereinbefore
stated as contained in the preamble to the Ordinance are full, true and correct
and do hereby, by reference, incorporate and make them part of this Ordinance
as legislative findings.
Section Two – Amendment to Title 7 Chapter 7
   Title 7 (Motor Vehicles and Traffic) Chapter 7 (Impoundment of Vehicles)
Section 7-7-3 (Administrative Penalty; Vehicle Possession) shall be amended,
added language being reflected by underlined text and removed language
reflected by stricken text:
 
7-7-3: ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTY; VEHICLE POSSESSION:
A. A vehicle may be seized, towed and impounded by the village police
department without prior notice to the registered owner and lienholder thereof,
if applicable, when such vehicle or the operator thereof is believed to have
caused any of the following violations. The village shall not be liable for any
damage to any vehicle which occurs as a result of the towing and storage of any
vehicle under the provisions of this chapter. In addition to all applicable
towing and storage costs, an administrative penalty of seven-hundred and fifty
dollars ($750.00)five hundred dollars ($500.00) shall be imposed on the
registered owner (but not a vehicle lienholder or vehicle leasing company, in
which case, the lessee of the vehicle shall be responsible) of any such vehicle
towed or impounded as a consequence of the following violations. Such fee or
bond posted in lieu thereof shall be subject to refund or return, as the case
may be, in the event of a finding of no violation at a hearing conducted to
contest such violation as further prescribed in this chapter.
 
Section Three – Codification
The title, chapter(s) and section(s) adopted by this Ordinance shall be
numbered and placed in an appropriate title, chapter(s), and sections(s)
sections when and during the codification of the Bloomingdale Municipal Code.
Section Four – Effective Date:
This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage,
approval and publication as provided by law.
Section Five - Publication
This Ordinance shall be published in book or pamphlet form as provided by the
Illinois Municipal Code.
Section Six - Conflict Clause
That all ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with the terms of this
Ordinance shall be repealed to the extent of said conflict.
Section Seven – Saving Clause
If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance is declared by
a court of law to be invalid or unconstitutional, the invalidity or
unconstitutionality thereof shall not affect the validity of the remaining
provisions of the Village’s Municipal Code, which are hereby declared to be
separable.
Section Eight - Recording
This Ordinance shall be entered into the minutes and upon the journals of the
Board of Trustees of the Village of Bloomingdale.
 
 
 
[Remainder of Page intentionally left blank; roll call vote to follow]
DECIDED pursuant to a Roll Call Vote as follows:
                       YES NO ABSENT PRESENT
Vince Ackerman                X
William Belmonte       X
Frank Bucaro           X
Patrick Shannon        X
Dan Vitacco            X
Judi Von Huben         X
Franco A. Coladipietro
(only if necessary)
TOTAL                  5   0  1
 
   PASSED AND APPROVED by the Village of Bloomingdale Board of Trustees on the
14th day of July, 2025:
 
 
____________________________________
Franco A. Coladipietro
Village President
 
 
ATTEST:
 
 
___________________________________
Pamela S. Hager
Village Clerk
 
 
ORDINANCE NUMBER 2025-36
 
 
AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING TITLE 7 (MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC); CHAPTER 3 (TRAFFIC SCHEDULES);
SECTION 2 (STOP INTERSECTIONS) OF THE VILLAGE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF
BLOOMINGDALE, AS AMENDED, TO ESTABLISH A TWO-WAY STOP CONTROL FOR HINGHAM LANE
AT BRAINTREE DRIVE
 
 
 
FRANCO A. COLADIPIETRO, Mayor
 
PAMELA S. HAGER, Village Clerk
 
VINCE ACKERMAN
WILLIAM BELMONTE
FRANK BUCARO
PATRICK SHANNON
DAN VITACCO
JUDI VON HUBEN
 
Village Board
 
 
 
Published in pamphlet form by authority of the
President and the Board of Trustees of the Village of Bloomingdale
on this the 14th day of July, 2025
 
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-36
 
AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING TITLE 7 (MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC); CHAPTER 3 (TRAFFIC SCHEDULES);
SECTION 2 (STOP INTERSECTIONS) OF THE VILLAGE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF
BLOOMINGDALE, AS AMENDED, TO ESTABLISH AN ALL-WAY STOP CONTROL AT THE
INTERSECTION OF CIRCLE AVENUE AND SPRING VALLEY DRIVE
 
   WHEREAS, the Village of Bloomingdale, DuPage County, Illinois (the
“Village”) is a home rule unit of local government under Article VII, Section 6
of the 1970 Illinois Constitution and, except as limited by such Section, it
may exercise any power and perform any function pertaining to its government
and affairs;
   WHEREAS, the Illinois Constitution of 1970 provides that a Home Rule Unit
may exercise any power and perform any function pertaining to its government
and affairs, including but not limited to the power to regulate for the
protection of the public health, safety, morals and welfare; to license, to
tax; and to incur debt;
   WHEREAS, the Village has in full force and effect a codified set of those
ordinances of the Village which are of a general and permanent nature, which
said codified set is known and designated as the Village Code of the Village of
Bloomingdale, as amended;
   WHEREAS, pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/11-304, the Village Board may establish that
certain intersecting streets under the Village’s jurisdiction should be
controlled by the establishment of either two-way or all-way stop controls;
   WHEREAS, the Village Engineer has undertaken engineering traffic
investigation pursuant to the applicable standards published in the 2009
Edition of the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (hereinafter the
“MUTCD”), and has presented his findings to the Village Board;
   WHEREAS, the Village Board desires to establish two-way stop control for
Hingham Lane at Braintree Drive to address safety concerns for, that the road
users to stop in compliance with the normal right-of-way rules; and
   WHEREAS, the Corporate Authorities of the Village of Bloomingdale are of the
opinion that the foregoing actions are in the best interest of the public
safety, health and welfare of the residents of the Village of Bloomingdale.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Village President and Board of
Trustees of the Village of Bloomingdale, DuPage County, Illinois as follows:
Section One – Recitals
   The Corporate Authorities hereby find that all of the recitals hereinbefore
stated as contained in the preamble to the Ordinance are full, true and correct
and do hereby, by reference, incorporate and make them part of this Ordinance
as legislative findings.
Section Two – Amendment to Title 7 Chapter 3
   Title 7 (Motor Vehicles and Traffic) Chapter 3 (Traffic Schedules) Section 2
(Stop Intersections) shall be repealed in its entirety and replaced with the
following:
 
7-3-2: STOP INTERSECTIONS:
 
The following street intersections are hereby designated as stop intersections
in the manner hereinafter provided, and all vehicular traffic shall stop before
entering or crossing the intersections so designated:
 
 
Street/Site  Direction of Traffic Location
Hingham Lane Eastbound            Hingham Lane at Braintree Drive
Hingham Lane Westbound            Hingham Lane at Braintree Drive
 
 
 
Section Three – Codification
The title, chapter(s) and section(s) adopted by this Ordinance shall be
numbered and placed in an appropriate title, chapter(s), and sections(s)
sections when and during the codification of the Bloomingdale Municipal Code.
 
Section Four – Effective Date:
This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage,
approval and publication as provided by law.
Section Five - Publication
This Ordinance shall be published in book or pamphlet form as provided by the
Illinois Municipal Code.
Section Six - Conflict Clause
That all ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with the terms of this
Ordinance shall be repealed to the extent of said conflict.
Section Seven – Saving Clause
If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance is declared by
a court of law to be invalid or unconstitutional, the invalidity or
unconstitutionality thereof shall not affect the validity of the remaining
provisions of the Village’s Municipal Code, which are hereby declared to be
separable.
Section Eight - Recording
This Ordinance shall be entered into the minutes and upon the journals of the
Board of Trustees of the Village of Bloomingdale.
 
 
 
[Remainder of Page intentionally left blank; roll call vote to follow]
DECIDED pursuant to a Roll Call Vote as follows:
                       YES NO ABSENT PRESENT
Vince Ackerman                X
William Belmonte       X
Frank Bucaro           X
Patrick Shannon        X
Dan Vitacco            X
Judi Von Huben         X
Franco A. Coladipietro
(only if necessary)
TOTAL                  5   0  1
 
   PASSED AND APPROVED by the Village of Bloomingdale Board of Trustees on the
14th day of July, 2025:
 
 
____________________________________
Franco A. Coladipietro
Village President
 
 
ATTEST:
 
 
___________________________________
Pamela S. Hager
Village Clerk
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2012-14
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE VILLAGE OF BLOOMINGDALE MUNICIPAL CODE, EXCLUDING
TITLE 11 (ZONING REGULATIONS), AS AN EXERCISE OF THE HOME RULE AUTHORITY OF THE
VILLAGE OF BLOOMINGDALE, DUPAGE COUNTY, ILLINOIS
WHEREAS, the village of Bloomingdale, DuPage County, Illinois (the "village")
is a home rule unit of local government, and as such may exercise any power and
perform any function pertaining to its government and affairs, except as
limited by article VII, section 6 of the 1970 Illinois constitution; and
WHEREAS, the village president and board of trustees (the "village board")
determined that it is necessary, desirable and in the best interests of the
village, to produce a code of ordinances that will allow the general public and
those having business with the village, as well as the officers and employees
of the village, to have greater ease of access to the laws of the village; and
WHEREAS, the creation of a code of ordinances will promote a more efficient and
transparent operation of village government; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to statutory restrictions, title 11 (zoning regulations) of
the proposed code of ordinances can only be adopted after a duly noticed public
hearing before the plan commission is held and a findings of fact and
recommendation is prepared by the plan commission and forwarded to the village
president and board of trustees, so will be excluded from the adoption of the
balance of the proposed code of ordinances at this time.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the village president and board of trustees
of the village of Bloomingdale, DuPage County, Illinois, in the exercise of
their home rule authority, as follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the village
code of the village of Bloomingdale, Illinois (the "village code"), containing
the attached compilation of village ordinances is hereby adopted as the
ordinances of the village of Bloomingdale, superseding all prior laws and
ordinances.
   Section 2: To the extent that any prior ordinances or portions thereof are
in conflict with or inconsistent with the code of ordinances, they are hereby
repealed, except ordinances passed after 2011-35 that are in conflict with the
village code shall take precedence over the village code provisions established
by this ordinance.
   Section 3: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with any and all supplements thereto,
either provided in-house or by a contractual service employed by the village,
whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a general and permanent nature
amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions of the village code is
identified by the proper catchline and is inserted in the proper place in each
of the official copies, one (1) copy of which shall be maintained in the office
of the village clerk, certified as to correctness and available for inspection
at any and all times that said office is regularly open.
   Section 4: All ordinances of a general nature included in the village code
shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the fact
that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the village board
shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness of
ordinances included in the village code. All ordinances of a special nature,
such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating ordinances
and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect unless
specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the village code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the village code.
   Section 5: This ordinance and the village code adopted by the same shall be
in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and publication
in pamphlet form as provided by law.
PASSED AND APPROVED this 12th day of March, 2012.
   AYES:    Trustees Czernek, Von Huben, Bolen, Gebis, Hovde and King
   NAYS:    None
   ABSENT:    None
         /s/    
          Robert G. Iden, Village President
ATTEST:
/s/      
Irene M. Jones, Village Clerk
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
BLOOMINGDALE VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the village board of trustees, this code is hereby declared to
be and shall hereafter constitute the official village code of Bloomingdale.
This code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the BLOOMINGDALE VILLAGE
CODE and is hereby published by authority of the board of trustees and shall be
supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the village as
provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title headings, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2012 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of the
state as the ordinances of the village of general and permanent effect, except
the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2012 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(2012 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the village and shall be returned to the office of the
village clerk when directed so to do by order of the village board of trustees.
(2012 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repealed And Unaffected Ordinances
1-2-2: Conflicting Provisions
1-2-3: Prior Acts
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEALED AND UNAFFECTED ORDINANCES:
   A.   Repealed Ordinances: This code, from and after its effective date,
shall contain all of the provisions of a general nature pertaining to the
subjects herein enumerated and embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the
subjects treated by this code shall be deemed repealed from and after the
effective date of this code.
   B.   Unaffected Ordinances: All ordinances of a temporary or special nature
and all other ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall
remain in full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by
necessary implication. (2012 Code)
1-2-2: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
When any provision of this code conflicts with another provision of this code,
the provision that imposes the greater restriction shall be controlling. (2012
Code)
1-2-3: PRIOR ACTS:
Neither the enactment of this code nor the repeal of any ordinance or parts of
ordinances as affected by the adoption of this code shall be construed to
affect or abate any action or cause of action for violation of said prior
ordinance or ordinances. (2012 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this code,
or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by reference, is for any
reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any codes or portions
of codes adopted herein by reference. The village board hereby declares that it
would have passed each section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2012 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the village president and board of trustees may
be fully carried out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare. (2012 Code)
   C.   Computation Of Time: The time within which any act provided by law is
to be done shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last,
unless the last day is Sunday or a legal holiday, and then it shall also be
excluded. If the day succeeding such Sunday or holiday is also a holiday or
Sunday, then such succeeding day shall also be included. (Ord. 80-3, 1-22-1980;
amd. 2012 Code)
   D.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
department director or some other village officer to do some act or perform
some duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or
other officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   E.   Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
   F.   Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
   G.   May; Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory. (2012 Code)
   H.   Or; And: "Or" may be read "and", and "and" may be read "or" if the
sense requires it. (Ord. 80-3, 1-22-1980)
   I.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   J.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   K.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the village of Bloomingdale".
   L.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   M.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the
village has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter",
"section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to village ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2012 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES: Unless otherwise indicated, the village board of trustees of
the village of Bloomingdale.
CODE: The village code of the village of Bloomingdale.
COUNTY: The county of DuPage, state of Illinois.
IN THE VILLAGE OR WITHIN THE VILLAGE: All territory over which the village now
has or shall hereafter acquire jurisdiction for any lawful purpose.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MONTH: A calendar month.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the village, or any activity which, by its perpetuation, can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OATH; SWORN: The word "oath" shall be deemed to include an affirmation; the
word "sworn" shall be construed to include the word "affirmed".
OCCUPANT OR TENANT: Applied to a building or land, means any person who holds a
written or oral lease of or actually occupies the whole or part of such
building or land, either along or with others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, corporation, joint stock association or
any city, or state, or any subdivision thereof and includes any trustee,
receiver, assignee or personal representative thereof.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every species of property, except "real estate" as
defined in this section.
PRECEDING; FOLLOWING: Next before and next after, respectively.
PROPERTY: Includes real and personal property.
REAL ESTATE: Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments and shall embrace all
chattels real.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral lines
of a roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
STATE: The state of Illinois.
STREET: The entire width between property lines of every way or place of
whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the public, as a
matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
VILLAGE: The village of Bloomingdale, county of DuPage, state of Illinois.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things
to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law on any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person or, in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark.
YEAR: A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed. (Ord. 80-3, 1-22-1980; amd.
2012 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (2012 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   General Penalty Imposed:
      1.   Fine; Imprisonment: Unless specifically provided elsewhere in this
Code, any person found to have been in violation of any of the terms and
provisions of this Code shall be fined in the amount not less than seventy five
dollars ($75.00) and not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). No
imprisonment for failure to pay such fine, penalty or cost shall exceed six (6)
months for each offense. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed to
be a separate offense. (Ord. 2019-07, 2-11-2019)
      2.   Conditional Discharge; Court Supervision; Restitution: In addition
to a fine described in subsection A1 of this section, the Circuit Court may
impose a period of conditional discharge as defined in 730 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/5-1-4 or court supervision as defined in 730 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/5-1-21 of the Criminal Code for a period of up to six (6) months, an
order of restitution, an order to perform community service, an order to
complete an education program and/or any other appropriate penalties or
conditions authorized in any section of this Code or stand alone ordinance or
any conditions for conditional discharge set forth in 730 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/5-6-3 or for court supervision in 730 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
5-6-3.1 as the foregoing are amended from time to time.
      3.   Education Program:
         a.   A penalty imposed for violation of any provision of this Code may
include or consist of a requirement that the defendant complete an education
program; except, that a holder of a valid commercial driver's license who
commits a vehicle weight or size restriction violation shall not be required to
complete an education program under this subsection.
         b.   A low income individual required to complete an education program
under subsection A3a of this section who provides proof of eligibility for the
Federal Earned Income Tax credit under section 32 of the Internal Revenue Code
or the Illinois Earned Income Tax credit under 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
212 shall not be required to pay any fee for participating in a required
education program.
      4.   Additional Remedies: The appropriate authorities of the Village may
take such other action as they deem proper to enforce the terms and provisions
of this Code including, without limitation, an action at law or in equity to
compel compliance with its terms.
      5.   Costs And Fees: Any person violating the terms or provisions of this
Code shall be subject, in addition to the penalties set out in this subsection,
to the payment of court costs and reasonable attorney fees.
      6.   Default In Payment: A default in the payment of a fine or any
installment of a fine may be collected by any means authorized for the
collection of monetary judgments. The Village Attorney may retain attorneys and
private collection agents for the purpose of collecting any default in payment
of any fine or installment of that fine. Any fees or costs incurred by the
Village with respect to attorneys or private collection agents retained by the
Village Attorney under this subsection shall be charged to the offender. (Ord.
2012-17, 4-9-2012)
   B.   Acts Consistent With Criminal Laws Of State: If, by the terms of an
ordinance, an act that would be consistent with the criminal laws of the State
is declared to be a misdemeanor, the penalty therefor shall be for a period of
incarceration in a penal institution other than a penitentiary not to exceed
six (6) months. The matter shall be prosecuted under the rules of criminal
procedure of the State, and the Village shall be required to establish guilt
beyond a reasonable doubt.
   C.   Limitation; Compliance With Statute: The provisions of subsection A of
this section notwithstanding, no penalty shall be greater than that established
by state statute for the same offense. (2012 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/1-2-1.1.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2012 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the village board of trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (2012 Code)
CHAPTER 5
OFFICIAL AND CORPORATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Corporate Seal
1-5-2: Ordinances, Resolutions And Motions
1-5-1: CORPORATE SEAL:
   A.   Description: The seal now being used by and for the village, the
impression of which is in circular form, on the outer circle of which are the
words, "Village of Bloomingdale, DuPage County, Illinois", and within the inner
circle of which is the word "Seal", is hereby established and declared to have
been and to now and in the future be the official seal of the village, to be
used in all cases in which, by law and custom, it is necessary to use such a
seal to authenticate the corporate acts of the village. (Ord. 80-3, 1-22-1980;
amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Custody And Use: The corporate seal shall be kept in the custody of the
village clerk and an impression thereof attached to all instruments, documents,
and other corporate acts which are required by statute or by direction of the
board of trustees to be authenticated by the corporate seal. (Ord. 80-3, 1-22-
1980)
1-5-2: ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS:
   A.   Style Of Enacting Ordinances: The enacting style of all ordinances
shall be: "Be it ordained by the President and Board of Trustees of the Village
of Bloomingdale.". (Ord. 80-3, 1-22-1980)
   B.   Approval Or Veto; Reconsideration Of And Passing Over:
      1.   All resolutions and motions: a) which create any liability against
the village; or b) which provide for the expenditure or appropriation of its
money; or c) to sell any village property, and all ordinances, passed by the
board of trustees shall be deposited with the village clerk. If the president
approves them, he shall sign them. Those of which he disapproves he shall
return to the board of trustees, with his written objections, at the next
regular meeting of the board of trustees occurring not less than five (5) days
after their passage. The president may disapprove of any one or more sums
appropriated in any ordinance or motion making an appropriation, and if so, the
remainder shall be effective. If the president fails to return any ordinance,
resolution, or motion of which he disapproves entirely, with his written
objections, within the designated time, it becomes effective without his
signature. (Ord. 80-3, 1-22-1980; amd. 2012 Code)
      2.   The board shall reconsider every resolution, motion or ordinance
returned thereto under subsection B1 of this section and may override the
president's veto by the affirmative vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all the
trustees elected to the board.
   C.   Passage:
      1.   Resolutions and motions: a) which create liability against the
village; or b) which provide for the expenditure or appropriation of its money;
or c) to sell village property, and ordinances, or any amendments to such
resolutions, motions, or ordinances, shall not be deemed passed until such
resolutions, motions, or ordinances are considered by and voted upon by the
board of trustees; except, that the reading and second consideration thereof
may be waived by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the board of trustees.
      2.   When any such resolution, motion, ordinance or amendment considered
by the board of trustees receives a favorable vote from the board of trustees,
it shall be placed on the agenda and brought before the board of trustees by
the village clerk at the next regular meeting of the board of trustees for a
second vote upon said resolution, motion, ordinance, or amendment thereto
unless the second reading and consideration thereof has been waived as provided
herein.
      3.   The said resolution, motion, ordinance or amendment thereto shall be
deemed passed if it receives a passing vote at such second consideration. If
any said resolution, motion, ordinance, or amendment thereto fails to pass at
its first consideration, it shall be deemed to have failed its passage, and it
is not required that it be brought before the board at its next regular
meeting.
   D.   Reconsideration Of Vote At Special Meetings: No vote of the board shall
be reconsidered or rescinded at a special meeting unless there are present at
the special meeting as many trustees as were present when the vote was taken.
(Ord. 80-3, 1-22-1980)
   E.   Publication Of Ordinances: All ordinances of the village imposing any
fine, penalty, imprisonment or forfeiture or making any appropriation shall: 1)
be printed in book or pamphlet form, published by authority of the board; or 2)
be published at least once, within ten (10) days after passage, in one or more
newspapers with a general circulation in the village. No such ordinance shall
take effect until ten (10) days after it is so published; provided, that
ordinances establishing rules and regulations for the construction of buildings
or for the use of property, where such rules and regulations have been
previously printed in book or pamphlet form, may, by their terms, provide for
the adoption of such rules and regulations or portions thereof by references
thereto without further printing or publication. All other ordinances,
resolutions and motions shall take effect upon their passage unless they
otherwise provide. (Ord. 80-3, 1-22-1980; amd. 2012 Code)
   F.   Proof Of Ordinances:
      1.   The contents of all village ordinances, the date of passage and the
date of publication or posting, where required, may be proved by the
certificate of the village clerk, under the seal of the village.
      2.   Whenever village ordinances are printed in book or pamphlet form,
and purport to be published by authority of the board of trustees, such book or
pamphlet shall be prima facie evidence of the contents, passage and legal
publication of such ordinances, as of the dates mentioned in such book or
pamphlet, in all courts and administrative tribunals. (Ord. 80-3, 1-22-1980)
CHAPTER 6
VILLAGE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Village Board Of Trustees
1-6-2: Village President
1-6-3: Meetings
1-6-4: Rules And Order Of Business
1-6-5: Committees
1-6-1: VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
   A.   Function: The village shall be governed by the village board.
   B.   Composition: The village board shall consist of a village president and
six (6) trustees.
   C.   Voting Rights:
      1.   Trustees: Each trustee of the board shall have the right to vote on
all questions coming before the board unless he is directly interested therein.
      2.   President: The president shall preside at all meetings of the board
and shall not vote except in case of a tie or unless it is necessary for a
majority or statutory approval or on a matter which he is given statutory
authority to vote.
   D.   Powers:
      1.   Improvements: The board shall, in addition to all powers and duties
already conferred thereon, make all orders for doing the work or the making of
any improvements within the village.
      2.   Revenue And Expense: The board shall levy all taxes, apportion and
appropriate all funds and audit and allow all bills, accounts, claims and
payrolls and order the payment thereof.
      3.   Contracts: The board shall make or authorize the making of all
contracts with the village, the same to be made either by ordinance or
resolution adopted by the board. (Ord. 80-3, 1-22-1980)
      4.   Authority Over Committees, Department Directors And Supervisors: All
committees, department directors and supervisors are subject to the authority
of the board of trustees. Their acts and decisions are subject to review,
reconsideration, and final approval by the board. Such department directors and
supervisors may be required, at the discretion of the board, to make such
report in writing concerning the affairs of their function or assignment as the
board may deem necessary. (Ord. 80-3, 1-22-1980; amd. 2012 Code)
      5.   Removal Of Officers: Any appointive officer shall be subject to
removal by the board of trustees at any time, and all appointments shall be
made upon such condition, and when so removed, the salary of such person shall
cease. All suspended appointees shall have the right to appeal to the village
board of trustees from the suspension decrees of the president or other
officer. The action of the board of trustees shall be final.
      6.   Rules And Order Of Business: The board shall adopt rules governing
its order of business and prescribing the manner in which legislation shall be
considered, which rules and order of business shall not be inconsistent with
law and the ordinances of the village.
      7.   Creation, Discontinuance Of Offices: The board shall have the power,
by ordinance, from time to time, to create, fill and discontinue offices and
employment, and to add, assign or transfer to any officer or employee new
duties from time to time.
      8.   Changes In Compensation: The village board may, by ordinance,
prescribe, limit or change the compensation of all officers and employees.
(Ord. 80-3, 1-22-1980)
1-6-2: VILLAGE PRESIDENT 1 :
   A.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   The president shall have all the powers and perform all the duties
hereinafter set forth and as are provided by the laws of the state of Illinois
or by the village ordinances. He shall be the chief executive officer and
representative of the village. Among other things, he shall perform the
following duties:
         a.   Preside at all regular and special meetings of the board of
trustees, unless unavoidably prevented.
         b.   Nominate persons to fill the appointive offices of the village.
         c.   Investigate all matters pertaining to the interests of the
village and well being of the residents.
         d.   Countersign all commissions, licenses and permits authorized by
statute or village ordinance. (Ord. 80-3, 1-22-1980)
         e.   Sign all contracts and warrants on behalf of the village,
approved by resolution. (Ord. 80-3, 1-22-1980; amd. 2012 Code)
         f.   Generally, be charged with the responsibility for the proper
conduct of the village affairs and the enforcement of all ordinances of the
village.
      2.   The village president shall submit to the board of trustees a report
relative to the affairs of the village, and he shall recommend for
consideration by the board such measures as he may deem expedient. (Ord. 80-3,
1-22-1980)
   B.   President Pro Tem: If a temporary absence from the village or
disability of the president incapacitates him from the performance of his
duties, but does not create a vacancy in the office, the board of trustees
shall elect one of its members to act as village president pro tem. The village
president pro tem, during this absence or disability, shall perform the duties
and possess all the rights and powers of the village president but shall not be
entitled to vote as president pro tem and trustee. (Ord. 80-3, 1-22-1980; amd.
2012 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section 1-8-2 of this title for bond requirements.
1-6-3: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The regular meetings of the board of trustees shall
be held on the second and fourth Mondays of each month at seven thirty o'clock
(7:30) P.M. (Ord. 80-20, 4-8-1980)
   B.   Special Meetings:
      1.   The president or any two (2) trustees, upon forty eight (48) hours'
notice, may call special meetings of the board by giving written or printed
notice at the usual place of business or place of residence of each member
before the hour of holding such meeting. Such notice shall state the object of
such meeting and may be served by any member of the police department or any
member of the board or other officer of the village who shall certify that he
has served said notice by showing in what manner the same has been served. Such
notices and copies thereof shall be prepared by the village clerk when
requested. (Ord. 80-3, 1-22-1980; amd. 2012 Code)
      2.   At any regular meeting, a majority of the village board may call a
special meeting, and said special meeting shall be noted by the village clerk
in the minutes of that meeting.
      3.   Special meetings shall be held at such location as is contained in
the notice of said special meeting.
   C.   Quorum; Voting:
      1.   Four (4) members of the board, including the president, shall
constitute a quorum to do business, but no ordinance shall be passed except
upon the favorable vote of a majority of the elected members. (Ord. 80-3, 1-22-
1980)
      2.   Upon every vote, the "ayes" and "nays" shall be called and recorded,
and every motion, resolution or ordinance, if the president or any member shall
require it, shall be reduced to writing and read, unless waived, before a vote
shall be taken thereon. Every trustee present shall vote thereon unless the
board shall, for good reason shown, excuse him from voting or unless he is
directly interested therein, in which case, he shall not be entitled to vote.
(Ord. 80-3, 1-22-1980; amd. 2012 Code)
   D.   Temporary Chair: In the absence of the village president, acting
village president, or village president pro tem, the board of trustees may
elect a trustee to act as a temporary chair. He shall have only the powers of a
presiding officer and a right to vote in his capacity as trustee on any
ordinance, resolution, or motion. (Ord. 80-3, 1-22-1980)
   E.   Public Participation:
      1.   Rules: The following rules shall apply to public participation at
regular meetings of the village board of trustees and the village board of
trustees acting as a standing committee of the whole or a special committee of
the whole (hereinafter referred to as "board meetings"):
         a.   Public participation at board meetings is encouraged. A period of
time at the beginning of each board meeting shall be made available for public
comments regarding items on the agenda or related to any other village
ordinances, policies or operations (hereinafter referred to as "audience
participation").
         b.   A period of time at the end of each meeting shall also be
available for public comments regarding items on the agenda only (hereinafter
referred to as "comments from the public").
         c.   A person shall be permitted to speak upon being recognized by the
village president or the acting chair. The person shall stand (if possible),
state his/her name and address prior to making comments, and limit speaking to
no more than five (5) minutes, unless additional time is granted by the village
president or acting chair. Each person will be permitted to speak only once
during audience participation and again during comments from the public.
         d.   All speakers shall address their comments to the village
president or acting chair. The village president or acting chair may request
that the appropriate member of the board or staff respond to the comment.
         e.   The village president or acting chair shall preserve order and
decorum and shall decide all questions of order.
         f.   When addressing the board, members, administrative officers and
other persons permitted to speak shall confine their remarks to the matter at
hand and avoid repetitious commentary, personal remarks, the impugning of
motives, and merely contentious or disruptive statements.
         g.   If any person indulges in such remarks or otherwise engages in
conduct injurious to the harmony of the board and the meeting, the village
president or acting chair may immediately terminate the opportunity to speak.
This decision is at the discretion of the village president or acting chair or
upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the trustees present. Any
person, except a member of the board, who engages in disorderly conduct during
a meeting may be ejected from the meeting upon motion passed by a majority of
the trustees present.
      2.   Citizens' Guide Available At Each Meeting: The following shall be
printed and made available to the public at each board meeting:
CITIZENS' GUIDE TO ADDRESSING THE BOARD:
Anyone wishing to speak under the agenda item entitled "Audience Participation"
or "Comments from the Public" shall adhere to the following guidelines:
1. A person shall be permitted to speak upon being recognized by the village
president or acting chair. Please stand (if possible) and approach the podium,
announce your name and address before commencing. All comments under "Audience
Participation" or "Comments from the Public" are limited to five (5) minutes,
and each person shall only be permitted to speak once.
2. All speakers shall address their comments to the village president or acting
chair.
3. The village president or acting chair shall preserve order and decorum and
shall decide all questions of order.
4. When addressing the board, members, administrative officers and other
persons permitted to speak shall confine their remarks to the matter at hand
and avoid personal remarks, the impugning of motives, and merely contentious or
disruptive statements. If any person indulges in such remarks or otherwise
engages in conduct injurious to the harmony of the board and the meeting, the
village president or acting chair may immediately terminate the opportunity to
speak. This decision is at the discretion of the village president or acting
chair or upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the trustees present.
Any person, except a member of the board, who engages in disorderly conduct
during a meeting may be ejected from the meeting upon motion passed by a
majority of the trustees present.
5. Please do not repeat comments that have already been made by others.
(Ord. 2011-22, 6-13-2011)
      3.   Exemptions From Rules: The rules and regulations included in this
section do not apply to the meetings of the planning and zoning commission,
police pension board, board of fire and police commissioners, or any other
appointed board and commission, as these bodies have statutory requirements
concerning public hearings and other public meetings. (Ord. 2011-22, 6-13-2011;
amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
   F.   Electronic Attendance At Meetings: The rules and policies for
electronic attendance at meetings are located at section
2-0-1 of this code. (Ord. 2014-51, 11-10-2014)
1-6-4: RULES AND ORDER OF BUSINESS:
The following rules for the government of the meetings of the board of trustees
are hereby adopted:
   A.   Order Of Business:
      1.   Regular Meetings: The order of business at all regular meetings
shall be determined by roll call vote at each meeting. The agenda for each
meeting may include the following items but not in any particular sequence:
         a.   Call to order and calling the roll of the trustees.
         b.   Pledge Of Allegiance.
         c.   Approval of minutes of any regular meeting and special meeting.
         d.   Approval of the directive to pay, and consideration of, bills
against the village.
         e.   Communications and correspondence, reading and referring
petitions and communications.
         f.   Reports of committees.
         g.   Reports of the administrative staff.
         h.   Old business.
         i.   New business.
         j.   Discussion from the floor.
         k.   Adjournment.
      2.   Special Meetings: The order of business at special meetings shall be
as follows:
         a.   Call to order and calling of the roll of the trustees.
         b.   Consideration of the object of the meeting.
   B.   Rules Of Procedure:
      1.   Unless otherwise provided by statute, meetings of the board of
trustees shall be conducted in accordance with "Robert's Rules Of Order".
      2.   The president shall decide all questions of order, subject to an
appeal to the board; and in all cases, where these rules are not applicable,
the board of trustees shall be governed by parliamentary law, as laid down in
"Robert's Rules Of Order".
   C.   Suspension Of Rules: The rules of the board of trustees, other than
those prescribed by statute, may be suspended during any one meeting by a
majority vote of the members present. (Ord. 80-3, 1-22-1980)
   D.   Written Resolutions And Ordinances: All resolutions and ordinances
shall be reduced to writing and handed to the clerk and read by him, unless
waived, before being presented to the board of trustees for action. (Ord. 80-3,
1-22-1980; amd. 2012 Code)
   E.   President And Trustees To Attend Meetings: It shall be the duty of the
president and board of trustees to attend every meeting of the board of
trustees and their respective committee meetings unless unavoidably detained.
   F.   Referring Documents: All ordinances, petitions, resolutions, orders,
and communications to the village shall be referred by the president or
presiding officer to the proper committee, officer or employee.
   G.   Committee Reports: Each standing and special committee shall make a
report in the committee minutes or orally on the state of the matters before
that committee. (Ord. 80-3, 1-22-1980)
1-6-5: COMMITTEES:
   A.   General Committees: The following trustee assignments shall be made by
the president:
Police and community relations.
Planning, zoning and environmental concerns.
Facilities and golf course.
Traffic and street infrastructure.
Finance, personnel and administration.
Intergovernmental relations.
(Ord. 80-3, 1-22-1980; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Other Committees: The president shall appoint such other and further
committees as may be necessary to properly carry on the business of the
village. Written minutes shall be made of all committee meetings and submitted
to the board of trustees at the next regular meeting.
   C.   Committee Of The Whole: In addition, a committee of the whole shall
consist of the village president, the members of the board of trustees, and the
village administrator, if there be one. The chair of said committee shall be
the village president. The village president shall be an ex officio member of
all committees. (Ord. 80-3, 1-22-1980)
CHAPTER 7
VILLAGE CLERK 1
SECTION:
1-7-1: Elected Official
1-7-2: Duties
1-7-3: Deputy Clerk
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-8-2 of this title for bond requirements.
1-7-1: ELECTED OFFICIAL:
The village clerk is an elected village official, and shall serve a four (4)
year term of office and until a successor is elected and qualified, as provided
by state statute. (Ord. 2012-40, 11-12-2012)
1-7-2: DUTIES:
In addition to the statutory duties and those contained elsewhere in this code,
the village clerk shall:
   A.   Attend all meetings of the board of trustees; and post notice of and
record all proceedings of the board of trustees; and make available for public
inspection that record, within seven (7) days after approval by the board of
trustees.
   B.   Tape, or make a digital recording of, all closed meetings of the board
of trustees pursuant to the Illinois open meetings act 1 , secure such recorded
media in a safe place where it shall be kept in confidentiality, and otherwise
assure that the requirements of the open meetings act are met with respect to
their release and destruction. If the village clerk cannot attend a closed
meeting for whatever reason, the village clerk, a deputy village clerk, or
another designee of the clerk shall be responsible for assuring compliance with
the requirements of this subsection. The person taking minutes for such meeting
shall record the meeting and then provide the village clerk with the original
recorded media for security thereof. No copies of such recorded media shall be
made by any person other than the village clerk, or an authorized deputy clerk.
   C.   Keep a record of all ordinances and resolutions of the village in a
book or books provided for that purpose. For every ordinance requiring posting
or recording, the clerk shall, when so required, have noted thereon the date of
such posting or recording, and to make a certificate of such posting or
recording and attach the same to the original ordinance kept in the records of
the village.
   D.   Seal and attest all ordinances, resolutions and contracts of the
village, certain licenses and permits, and other such documents as shall
require this formality. The seal of the village may be mechanically or
digitally printed on certain licenses, permits and other such documents, so
that a manual seal by the clerk is not necessary, but all documents with a
mechanical or digital seal, as provided herein, shall nevertheless be
considered officially sealed village documents.
   E.   Serve certain notices, either by personal service, by publication or
posting, required by statute, local ordinance, or by order of the president or
board of trustees to be served and in the manner by law required, unless
notices are expressly ordered to be served by another village official.
   F.   Provide the election material for village residents running in village
elections.
   G.   Provide facilities for local voter registration.
   H.   Keep a complete and accurate file of the official papers of the village
so that ready access thereto and use thereof may be had by any properly
authorized elected official, village officer, or village staff member.
   I.   Countersign, in writing, all contracts, bonds, other agreements, or
evidence of indebtedness, of the village made in the name of the village, and
by the authority of the village president and board of trustees.
   J.   If created by the board of trustees, keep a list of all village board
committees, and a record of the business brought before them.
   K.   The clerk shall be the custodian of the village seal and shall affix
its impression on documents whenever this is required, pursuant to subsection D
of this section.
   L.   Perform all, and such duties as are, from time to time, imposed by the
village president or board of trustees.
   M.   Appoint a deputy clerk or deputy clerks pursuant to section
1-7-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-40, 11-12-2012)
 
Notes
1 2. 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
1-7-3: DEPUTY CLERK:
   A.   Appointment; Restrictions: The village clerk shall have the authority
to appoint one deputy village clerk to discharge the functions and duties of
the office of village clerk, who need not be a resident of the village;
provided, that no such appointment shall be made unless and until funding for
the deputy village clerk position described in this section has been approved
by the village board in the fiscal year budget for the year of any such
proposed appointment. The deputy village clerk position identified in this
section shall be a part time, nonexempt position in village service, or be a
full time, nonexempt position undertaken by a current employee whose duties in
village service are combined with the duties of deputy village clerk.
   B.   Additional Deputy Clerks: For administrative convenience and to provide
better service to the general public, the village clerk shall have the
authority to appoint other deputy village clerks, in addition to the deputy
clerk described in subsection A of this section. Such additional deputy village
clerks need not be residents of the village, but shall be employees of the
village, and shall discharge certain functions and duties of the office of the
village clerk without any compensation other than their budgeted salary as a
village employee, regardless of whether they are a full time, exempt/salaried
employee, a full time, nonexempt/hourly employee or a part time, nonexempt/
hourly employee.
   C.   Duties: The deputy village clerk, under the general supervision of the
village clerk and village administrator, shall:
      1.   Maintain custody of all village records;
      2.   Publish and post notices of all public meetings and copies of
resolutions and ordinances adopted by the village board when appropriate or
directed;
      3.   Maintain the corporate seal and certify the authenticity of all
copies of village documents;
      4.   Serve as local registrar of all vital statistics kept by the
village;
      5.   Attend meetings of the village president and board of trustees when
the village clerk is unavailable and keep a record of their proceedings; (Ord.
2011-32, 9-12-2011)
      6.   Register voters; (Ord. 2011-32, 9-12-2011; amd. 2012 Code)
      7.   Receive developer escrow application fees; and
      8.   Perform such functions or duties as assigned by the village clerk or
village administrator. (Ord. 2011-32, 9-12-2011)
CHAPTER 8
VILLAGE OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-8-1: Procedures Manual Adopted
1-8-2: Bonds
1-8-3: Compensation For Elected Officials
1-8-4: Indemnification
1-8-5: Equal Employment Policy
1-8-6: Participation In Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund
1-8-1: PROCEDURES MANUAL ADOPTED:
   A.   The manual on file with the Village Clerk entitled "Bloomingdale
Procedures Manual" is hereby adopted as the official manual of the Village
governing certain employee relations.
   B.   Copies of said manual are to be directed forthwith to the Village
Administrator for immediate implementation in all departments of Village
government. (Ord. 76-19A, 4-26-1976)
1-8-2: BONDS:
   A.   Required; Amounts: The following Village officials shall obtain a
public officials bond in the following amounts:
      1.   Village President: Equal to the minimum amount required by the
Statutes of the State of Illinois.
      2.   Village Clerk: Equal to the minimum amount required by the Statutes
of the State of Illinois.
      3.   Village Administrator: Ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00). (Ord. 94-
29, 6-13-1994)
      4.   Village Engineer: Ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00). (Ord. 94-29, 6-
13-1994; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
      5.   Finance Director-Treasurer: Three (3) times the latest Federal
census population of the Village or any subsequent census figures used for
Motor Fuel Tax purposes. (Ord. 94-29, 6-13-1994; amd. 2012 Code)
      6.   Chief of Police: Ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00).
      7.   Building Commissioner: Ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00).
   B.   Conditions: All bonds required by this section shall be payable to the
Village, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of the office
and the payment of all monies received by each such officer according to the
law and the ordinances of the Village. (Ord. 94-29, 6-13-1994)
   C.   Filing: All bonds obtained pursuant to this section shall be filed with
the Village Clerk, except the bond of the Village Clerk, which shall be filed
with the Village Finance Director-Treasurer. (Ord. 94-29, 6-13-1994; amd. 2012
Code)
   D.   Payment By Village: All bonds required by this section will be paid by
the Village. (Ord. 94-29, 6-13-1994)
1-8-3: COMPENSATION FOR ELECTED OFFICIALS:
   A.   Village Trustees:
      1.   Each Village Trustee shall receive the following compensation:
 
Effective Date Compensation
May 1, 2007    $90.00 for each Board of Trustees or Committee of the Whole
               meeting attended, with a maximum of $360.00 per month
May 1, 2025    $500.00 per month
 
      2.   All Village Trustees who are elected in the April 2007 Municipal
election to fill a four (4) year term of office and all Trustees elected or
appointed thereafter shall receive compensation of ninety dollars ($90.00) for
each and every official special meeting attended, with a maximum of twelve (12)
such official special meetings per fiscal year as compensation for attendance
at such official special meetings by the Trustee. Such special meetings are
duly called and posted as standing committee of the whole or Village Board
meetings, and are called in addition to those meetings published on a yearly
basis as required by law. A continued regular meeting shall not constitute a
special meeting.
   B.   Village President:
      1.   The Village President shall receive the following compensation:
 
Effective Date Compensation
May 1, 2025    $28,000.00 per year paid in twelve equal monthly payments.
 
   C.   Village Clerk:
      1.   The Village Clerk shall receive the following compensation:
 
Effective Date Compensation
May 1, 2017    $200.00 for each Board of Trustees or Committee of the Whole
               meeting attended, with a maximum of $600.00 per month.
May 1, 2025    $975.00 per month
 
   D.   Compensation Increases: On May 1 of every year, the compensation of the
Village President/Liquor Control Commissioner, the Village Clerk and the
Village Trustees shall be increased by the lesser of three percent (3%) or the
percentage increase in the Consumer Price Index for the twelve (12) month
period preceding May 1. The term "Consumer Price Index" shall mean the Chicago
area Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers for all items as published by
the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Department of Labor or any
successor index created by the Department of Labor as a substitute index that
measures the average change in prices of goods and services purchased by urban
consumers. The most recent consumer price index available on May 1 of each year
shall be used in applying this subsection to any increases in compensation. If
the index is a negative number, then there shall be no decrease in the
compensation, but the compensation shall remain the same as the previous fiscal
year. Amounts for monthly and per meeting compensation shall be rounded to the
nearest whole dollar
   E.   Payment Of Compensation: Compensation shall be paid in the form of a
monthly stipend check, in accordance with the Village's usual and customary
payroll practices. (Ord. 2006-36, 8-14-2006; amd. Ord. 2012-44, 11-12-2012;
Ord. 2016-44, 10-24-2016; Ord. 2022-47, 11-14-2022; Ord. 2024-37, 8-26-2024)
1-8-4: INDEMNIFICATION:
   A.   It is found and declared by the village president and board of trustees
("village") as follows:
      1.   The village has the power to indemnify its officials, both elected
and appointed, pursuant to law. (Ord. 92-78, 11-23-1992)
      2.   The term "officials", as used in this section, shall mean the
president and trustees, the village administrator, department directors and
appointed committee and commission members, as well as all other officers of
the village, whether or not currently serving. (Ord. 92-78, 11-23-1992; amd.
2012 Code)
      3.   It is in the best interest of the village to provide for the
indemnification of its officials, both elected and appointed, against claims,
expenses and liabilities to which such persons may be subject by reason of
their having acted in their capacity as a public official.
   B.   The village shall indemnify any official who was or is a party, or may
become a party, to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or
proceeding, whether civil, administrative or investigative, by reason of any
act or omission, error, misstatement or misleading statement, or neglect or
breach of duty or any other action which could reasonably be construed to have
been committed, attempted or allegedly committed or attempted by such person in
the discharge of his or her duties in his or her capacity as an official, both
elected and appointed, against expenses (including attorney fees), judgments
and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him or her
in connection with such action, suit or proceeding, if such person acted in
good faith in a manner in which he or she reasonably believed was in the best
interests of the village. This indemnification shall not apply to any claim,
suit, action or proceeding:
      1.   Which is for the return by any such official, both elected and
appointed, of any remuneration paid in fact to him or her without the previous
approval of the village if it shall be determined by judgment or other final
adjudication that such remuneration is in violation of law or if such
remuneration is to be repaid to the village under a settlement agreement.
      2.   Which is for an accounting of profits made from a purchase or sale
by such official, both elected and appointed, of village property for any
transaction prohibited by the village ethics ordinance 1 .
      3.   Which is brought about or contributed to by the fraudulent or
dishonest acts of such official, both elected and appointed, if a judgment or
other final adjudication adverse to such official establishes that acts of
active and deliberate dishonesty were committed or attempted by such official
with actual dishonest purpose and intent and were material to the cause of
action so adjudicated.
      4.   Which is brought about or contributed to by any criminal activities
of such official, and there has been a judicial determination of said criminal
activities.
      5.   For which the village is not authorized by law to provide
indemnification to the official, either elected or appointed.
      6.   With reference to any of the aforementioned enumerated items, a
presumption shall exist that indemnification shall apply unless a judicial
finding to the contrary is made.
   C.   The termination of any action, suit or proceeding, contrary to the best
interests of the official, by judgment, order, settlement or other resolution
shall not create a presumption that the official did not act in good faith in a
manner in which he or she reasonably believed was in the best interests of the
village. To the extent that an official has been successful, on the merits or
otherwise, in the defense of any action, suit or proceeding or in the defense
of any claim which qualifies herein for indemnification, such person shall be
indemnified against expenses (including attorney fees) actually and reasonably
incurred by such person in connection therewith. However, the village shall not
withhold payment of attorney fees until the conclusion of any legal
proceedings, but shall pay the attorney fees of the official on a timely basis.
   D.   The village shall indemnify only those officials, either elected or
appointed, from whom or with respect to whom the village has received written
notice of a claim. To the extent practicable, any notice from such official
shall be mailed as soon as practicable and shall identify the official seeking
the indemnification and contain information with respect to the time, place and
circumstances of the claim, the names and addresses of any injured persons or
other claimants and the names of any available witnesses. In the case where
legal proceedings have been commenced, indemnification may be denied if the
official fails to mail to the village, within twenty (20) days after receiving
service of process, a copy of such process relating to a claimed wrongful act
unless: 1) the village has otherwise received a copy of, or written notice of,
such process; or 2) the failure to notify within such twenty (20) day period
does not adversely impact upon the village's ability to defend against such
claim. Notice of the claim shall be made in writing to the village clerk.
   E.   The village shall indemnify the official for any damages, expenses,
court costs and legal fees incurred in connection with any defense of or
settlement of a claim, action or proceeding where such settlement has been
approved in advance by the village, or where the village refuses or fails to
approve such settlement, such settlement is deemed to be reasonable by
independent legal counsel chosen by both the village and the official.
   F.   Any indemnification pursuant to this section shall be made by the
village upon a determination that indemnification of the person is required by
this section. Such determination shall be made: 1) by the president and board
of trustees by a majority vote of a quorum of the board who were not parties to
such claim, suit, action or proceeding; or 2) if such quorum is not obtainable
or, even if obtainable, where a majority of a quorum of the board fails to
approve the indemnification, by independent legal counsel chosen by both the
claimant and the village board.
   G.   Any official against whom any action, suit or proceeding is brought may
employ his or her own attorney; provided, that such attorney is reasonably
acceptable to the village; and provided further, that the costs of such
attorney shall not be paid by the village unless the village attorney or
independent counsel for the village shall have advised the village that such
official's interests should not be represented by the same counsel that
represents the village in such action, suit or proceeding.
   H.   The indemnification provided herein shall be in addition to and not
exclusive of any other indemnity or insurance or other protection to which the
indemnitee may be entitled. The indemnification provided herein shall be
payable whether or not the village has obtained insurance therefor and, in the
case of the death of the indemnitee, shall inure to the benefit of his or her
heirs or successors. (Ord. 92-78, 11-23-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 10 of this title.
1-8-5: EQUAL EMPLOYMENT POLICY:
   All persons shall have the right to be free from discrimination on the basis
of race, color, creed, national ancestry and sex in hiring and promotion
practices of any employer.
(Ord. 77-58, 11-28-1977; amd. 2012 Code)
The village hereby recognizes that the absence of overt discrimination does not
in itself assure equal opportunity to women and minority groups, and that other
factors such as poverty, inferior education, and traditional recruitment or
employment practices also hinder the minority applicant. The affirmative action
program, with its result oriented procedures and specified goals, is intended
to combat those handicaps. Furthermore, through the efforts of the village
administrator, there will be a continuing process of review of the hiring
practices, the administrative procedures and the promotion structure of the
village. (Ord. 77-58, 11-28-1977)
1-8-6: PARTICIPATION IN ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND:
The village does hereby elect to participate in the Illinois municipal
retirement fund, effective January 1, 1974. (Ord. 73-45, 9-26-1973)
ARTICLE A. FINANCE DIRECTOR-TREASURER 1
SECTION:
1-8A-1: Office Created; Appointment And Term
1-8A-2: Powers And Duties
1-8A-3: Special Assessment Fund
1-8A-4: Drawing Warrants; Transfer Of Funds
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-8-2 of this chapter for bond requirements.
1-8A-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT AND TERM:
There is hereby created the office of finance director-treasurer. The finance
director-treasurer shall be appointed by the village president, with the advice
and consent of the board of trustees. The finance director-treasurer shall have
a term of office of one year and until his successor has been chosen and has
qualified. (Ord. 80-12, 2-26-1980; amd. 2012 Code)
1-8A-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   In addition to the duties specifically delegated to the finance
director-treasurer by this code, the director of finance-treasurer shall have
all duties and powers which are assigned by any statute of the state of
Illinois or any code, ordinance or resolution of the village to the office of
village treasurer and shall serve ex officio in such capacity concurrently with
his full time employment as director of the finance department.
   B.   The finance director-treasurer shall:
      1.   Perform such duties as may be prescribed for the village treasurer
by statute or ordinance.
      2.   Receive all monies paid into the village, whether directly from the
person paying the money or from the hands of such other officer or employee as
may receive it, and he shall pay out money only on vouchers or orders properly
signed by the village president and clerk.
      3.   Review all claims for reimbursement against the village and submit a
list of all outstanding claims to the finance, personnel and administration
committee for their consideration, together with his report as to the status of
the claims.
      4.   Prepare and file all fiscal, financial, and tax reports, documents,
and materials as may be required of the village to be presented to public
agencies of the federal, state, and county governments, and to be presented to
such financial institutions as may be doing business with the village.
      5.   On or before June 15 of each year, submit to the board of trustees a
report of his estimate, as nearly as may be, of the money necessary to defray
the expenses of the village during the current fiscal year. For the purpose of
making this report, the finance director-treasurer shall require all officers
of the village to submit statements of the condition and expenses of their
offices or departments; and any proposed improvements and the estimated expense
thereof; a statement of all unperformed contracts; and the amount of all
unexpended appropriations of the preceding year. His report shall also:
         a.   Classify the objects and purposes of such estimated expenditures
and the amounts required for each;
         b.   Show the aggregate income of the preceding fiscal year, from all
sources;
         c.   Show the amount of liability on which interest is to be paid;
         d.   Show the bonds and debts due and payable and the dates when such
are due and payable; and
         e.   Give such other information regarding the financial situation of
the village as the board of trustees may require.
      6.   Deposit the village funds in such depositories as may be selected
from time to time as provided by law and keep the deposit of the village monies
separate and distinct from his own monies. The finance director-treasurer shall
not use village monies for personal or private use.
      7.   Keep such books, accounts, and records as may be required by statute
or ordinance, and establish, supervise, and maintain the financial record
system of the village. The records, books, and accounts of the finance
director-treasurer shall show, among other things, all monies received by him
showing the source from which it is received and the purpose for which it is
paid. (Ord. 80-12, 2-26-1980; amd. 2012 Code)
1-8A-3: SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FUND:
All monies received on any special assessment shall be held by the finance
director-treasurer as a special fund to be applied only to the payment of the
improvement, or bonds and vouchers issued therefor, together with interest
thereon, for which the assessment was made, and such money shall be used for no
other purpose unless to reimburse the village for money expended for such
improvements. Payment on bonds or vouchers shall be made in accordance with the
statutes and the law, and the finance director-treasurer shall keep his books
and accounts in such a manner so that proper prorations in payments of
principal and interest can be made and ascertained. (Ord. 80-12, 2-26-1980;
amd. 2012 Code)
1-8A-4: DRAWING WARRANTS; TRANSFER OF FUNDS:
   A.   All warrants drawn on the finance director-treasurer must be signed by
the president and countersigned by the clerk, stating the particular fund or
appropriation to which the same is chargeable and the person to whom payable,
and no money shall be otherwise paid except as may be provided by statute.
   B.   Money shall not be transferred by the finance director-treasurer from
one fund to another after it has been received by him, nor appropriated to any
other purpose than that for which has been collected or paid, except as may be
ordered by the president and board of trustees in manner and form prescribed by
statute. (Ord. 80-12, 2-26-1980; amd. 2012 Code)
ARTICLE B. VILLAGE ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-8B-1: Office Created; Qualifications
1-8B-2: Appointment; Legal Advisor
1-8B-3: Duties
1-8B-4: Compensation
1-8B-1: OFFICE CREATED; QUALIFICATIONS:
There is hereby created the office of village attorney, which office shall be
held by an attorney or firm of attorneys admitted to the bar and licensed to
practice law in the state. (Ord. 71-79, 9-8-1971)
1-8B-2: APPOINTMENT; LEGAL ADVISOR:
The village president may appoint and retain the village attorney to act as
legal advisor to the village, and said village attorney shall render advice on
all legal questions affecting the village, as the board of trustees may request
from time to time. (Ord. 71-79, 9-8-1971; amd. 2012 Code)
1-8B-3: DUTIES:
   A.   Prepare Documents: The village attorney shall prepare all ordinances
and resolutions required by the board of trustees, and shall draft and/or
supervise the content of any contracts, leases, or other documents and
instruments to which the village may be a party.
   B.   Attend Meetings: The village attorney shall attend all regular and
special meetings of the board of trustees and such meetings of boards and
commissions of the village or committees of the board of trustees as he shall
be directed by the board of trustees. (Ord. 71-79, 9-8-1971)
   C.   Suits And Actions: The village attorney shall defend any and all suits
or actions at law or equity to which the village may be a party, or in which it
may be interested, or which may be brought against or by any officer of the
village, or in the capacity of such person as an officer of the village. (Ord.
71-79, 9-8-1971; amd. 2012 Code)
1-8B-4: COMPENSATION:
For such services, the village attorney shall be paid such salary and
compensation as shall be agreed upon by the village attorney and the board of
trustees at the time of appointment. (Ord. 71-79, 9-8-1971)
ARTICLE C. VILLAGE PROSECUTOR
SECTION:
1-8C-1: Office Created; Qualifications
1-8C-2: Appointment; Duties
1-8C-3: Assisted By Village Attorney
1-8C-4: Compensation
1-8C-1: OFFICE CREATED; QUALIFICATIONS:
There is hereby created the office of village prosecutor, who shall be an
attorney licensed to practice in the state. (Ord. 71-78, 9-8-1971)
1-8C-2: APPOINTMENT; DUTIES:
The village prosecutor shall be appointed by the village president and shall
prosecute all matters involving the violation of any ordinances of the village
or in which the village may be interested. (Ord. 71-78, 9-8-1971; amd. 2012
Code)
1-8C-3: ASSISTED BY VILLAGE ATTORNEY:
The village attorney shall assist the village prosecutor at the request of the
board of trustees. The village prosecutor shall notify the village attorney of
any notice of appeal served in connection with the imposition of any fine or
other penalty for a violation of a village ordinance. The village prosecutor
shall report to the village attorney on the progress of any matters which have
been continued from time to time and their final disposition. (Ord. 71-78, 9-8-
1971)
1-8C-4: COMPENSATION:
The compensation of the village prosecutor shall be as determined by the
village board of trustees. (Ord. 71-78, 9-8-1971; amd. 2012 Code)
ARTICLE D. VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR
SECTION:
1-8D-1: Title
1-8D-2: Office Created; Appointment And Term; Qualifications
1-8D-3: Oath Of Office
1-8D-4: Compensation
1-8D-5: Powers And Duties
1-8D-6: Conflict Of Interest
1-8D-7: Removal From Office
1-8D-8: Acting Village Administrator
1-8D-1: TITLE:
This article shall be entitled AN ORDINANCE CREATING AND ESTABLISHING THE
OFFICE OF VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR IN AND FOR THE VILLAGE OF BLOOMINGDALE. (Ord.
89-40, 9-25-1989)
1-8D-2: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT AND TERM; QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   There is hereby created the office of village administrator. The
village administrator shall be appointed by the president, with the advice and
consent of the board of trustees, for such term as determined at the time of
his or her appointment or by contract or as otherwise provided by law. The
village administrator shall be chosen solely on the basis of his executive and
administrative qualifications, with special reference to his or her actual
experience in, and knowledge of, accepted practices in respect to the duties of
his or her employment as set forth herein. At the time of such appointment, the
village administrator need not be a resident of the village, but shall reside
either within the village or within reasonable distance therefrom during the
term of office.
   B.   Upon the appointment of the village administrator, the president shall
issue a certificate of appointment, under the corporate seal, to the village
clerk. The village administrator shall be commissioned by warrant, under the
corporate seal, signed by the village clerk and the president. (Ord. 89-40, 9-
25-1989)
1-8D-3: OATH OF OFFICE:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the village administrator shall
take and subscribe the oath as set forth in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
3.1-10-25, as may be amended from time to time. This oath, so subscribed, shall
be filed in the office of the village clerk. (Ord. 89-40, 9-25-1989; amd. 2012
Code)
1-8D-4: COMPENSATION:
The village administrator shall receive such compensation and benefits as the
president and board of trustees shall determine by ordinance, or alternatively,
pursuant to any contract which defines said terms. No compensation shall be
paid to the village administrator in addition to that provided in the ordinance
or by the terms of any contract; except, however, the village administrator
shall be entitled to reimbursement for any reasonable actual expenses incurred
by him in the performance of his duties. (Ord. 89-40, 9-25-1989; amd. 2012
Code)
1-8D-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The village administrator shall be the administrative director of all
departments of the village. He shall be responsible to the president and board
of trustees for the proper administration of all affairs of the village. The
village administrator shall perform such duties in addition to those which may
be prescribed by law, and shall be subject to such other rules and regulations
as the president and board of trustees may provide by ordinance from time to
time. Specifically, but without limitation, the village administrator shall
have the following powers and duties: (Ord. 89-40, 9-25-1989; amd. 2012 Code)
   A.   Supervise and coordinate the work of all departments of the village now
in existence or that may hereafter be created by the president and board of
trustees, except as limited or restricted by any ordinance of the village;
(Ord. 89-40, 9-25-1989)
   B.   Recommend to the president and board of trustees in regard to the
hiring of all employees of the village. He shall recommend to the president the
removal or suspension of any department director or employee when such removal
or suspension shall be consistent with the village personnel manual and/or any
relevant provisions of the Illinois state statutes. All such recommendations
for the hiring of employees shall be based upon merit and qualifications. Any
recommendation for either hiring or removal shall be made without regard to
political belief or affiliation;
   C.   Review annually, salaries, wages and hours and conditions of employment
of all department directors and employees under his jurisdiction. No
expenditure shall be made on account of or pursuant to such appointment or
employment by the village administrator unless authorized by or under the
applicable appropriation or budget of the village, and all such expenditures
shall be subject to the approval of the president and board of trustees; (Ord.
89-40, 9-25-1989; amd. 2012 Code)
   D.   Act as purchasing agent of the village and make or supervise all
necessary purchases of equipment, materials and supplies by the village, and
all contracts therefor. The village administrator shall have the power to enter
into contracts for services and purchase goods and materials involving up to
and including thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00) without the prior approval
of the village board, as long as those services, goods and materials have been
previously appropriated. Contracts and purchases in excess of this amount shall
require the prior approval of the village board, whether or not they have been
previously appropriated. The village administrator may issue rules and
regulations governing requisitions and the transaction of business of
purchasing between himself, as purchasing agent, and the department directors
and employees of the village; (Ord. 2011-35, 9-12-2011; amd. 2012 Code)
   E.   Make recommendations concerning compensation for each department
director and employed position in the service of the village, including
minimum, intermediate and maximum rates; (Ord. 89-40, 9-25-1989; amd. 2012
Code)
   F.   Recommend the creation, consolidation and combination of offices,
positions, departments or units of the administrative and executive departments
of the village;
   G.   Investigate all complaints in relation to matters concerning the
administration of the government of the village and services maintained by the
public utilities in the village, and see that all franchises, permits and
privileges granted by the village are faithfully observed; (Ord. 89-40, 9-25-
1989)
   H.   Prepare and present to the president for his consideration at the end
of each fiscal year an estimate of income and expenses for the ensuing year;
prepare the annual appropriation ordinance and tax levy ordinance in the form
and within the time required by law; and prepare the annual budget; and submit
such ordinances and budget to the president for his submittal to the board of
trustees, together with the village administrator's opinion and recommendations
covering their important features; and upon the adoption of such ordinances and
budget, the administration of the same. To the end that all financial matters
of the village are coordinated, the village finance director-treasurer is
hereby directed to cooperate with the village administrator and to assist him
in the performance of the duties imposed upon him by this article;
   I.   Act as business manager for the village under the direction of the
president and board of trustees and in cooperation with the village finance
director-treasurer and clerk; control and direct all expenditures made by the
village; supervise the keeping of all necessary records and books of accounts
of the village that are not under the supervision of the finance director-
treasurer or clerk, by ordinance or statute; (Ord. 89-40, 9-25-1989; amd. 2012
Code)
   J.   Attend all regular and special meetings of the village board, and
committees thereof, unless excused by the same;
   K.   Render or cause to be rendered monthly to the president and board of
trustees written statements showing the exact financial condition of the
village as of the end of the preceding month, including the statement of
current assets and liabilities, and a summarized statement of receipts and
expenditures;
   L.   Make recommendations to the president and board of trustees, or
appropriate committee thereof, relative to the adoption of such ordinances and
resolutions as he may deem necessary or expedient; meet with the standing
committees of the president and board of trustees as often as necessary and
when requested;
   M.   Make special reports or recommendations to the board of trustees, or
the appropriate committee thereof, as the board of trustees may request; (Ord.
89-40, 9-25-1989)
   N.   Render to all department directors of the village and said department
directors shall render to him all such assistance as is possible in the
performance of their respective duties, and all department directors and
employees of the village shall furnish and disclose to the village
administrator such oral or written information and material relating to the
affairs of the village as he shall request;
   O.   Keep a current inventory of all real and personal property of the
village and the location of such property; be responsible for the care and
custody of all village property which is not by law assigned to some other
department director or body for care and control; (Ord. 89-40, 9-25-1989; amd.
2012 Code)
   P.   Devote his entire time during reasonable hours to the discharge of his
official duties. He shall hold no other employment for compensation; except,
that he may receive occasional stipends for consultation with others not
connected with the village, making speeches, writing professional articles, and
the like; provided, that such secondary duties do not conflict with his duties
as village administrator; and
   Q.   Perform such other duties as may be required of him by the corporate
authorities not inconsistent with the statutes of the state of Illinois or with
the ordinances of the village. (Ord. 89-40, 9-25-1989; amd. Ord. 2024-47, 12-9-
2024)
1-8D-6: CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
The village administrator shall abide by the relevant provisions of the
Illinois Compiled Statutes pertaining to conflicts of interest, disclosures of
economic interests and contracts, including, but not limited to, 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-55-10 and 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 420/4A-101 et
seq., and as the same and any other relevant provisions of the state statutes
may be amended from time to time by the Illinois general assembly. The village
administrator shall promptly disclose any potential conflict of interest to the
president and board of trustees. (Ord. 89-40, 9-25-1989; amd. 2012 Code)
1-8D-7: REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
The village administrator may be removed by the president on any formal charge
whenever the president is of the opinion that the interests of the village
demand removal. Such removal is subject to the payment of any valid remaining
portion of his contract, if hired by contract. The president shall report the
reasons for such removal to the village board at a meeting to be held not less
than five (5) nor more than ten (10) days after the removal. If the president
fails or refuses to report to the board of trustees the reasons for the
removal, or if the village board, by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of all its members
authorized by law to be elected, disapproves of the removal, the village
administrator, thereupon, shall be restored to office. Upon restoration, the
village administrator shall give a new bond and take a new oath of office.
(Ord. 89-40, 9-25-1989)
1-8D-8: ACTING VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR:
In the event the village administrator shall be incapacitated from performing
the duties of his position, a qualified person shall be appointed as acting
village administrator by the president, with the advice and consent of the
board of trustees, during such absence or incapacity, with all the powers and
duties of that office, who shall perform all the duties thereof without
furnishing any additional bond if such appointee shall already be under bond to
the village in any other capacity. If such appointment shall be a person not
already under bond to the village, such appointee shall furnish a bond in such
amount and with such surety as may be approved by the president and board of
trustees. The compensation to be paid the acting village administrator shall be
fixed by the president and board of trustees. (Ord. 89-40, 9-25-1989)
ARTICLE E. VILLAGE ENGINEER
SECTION:
1-8E-1: Appointment And Term; Residency
1-8E-2: Oath Of Office
1-8E-3: Compensation
1-8E-4: Duties And Responsibilities
1-8E-5: Conflict Of Interest
1-8E-6: Removal From Office
1-8E-1: APPOINTMENT AND TERM; RESIDENCY:
   A.   The Village Engineer shall be appointed by the President, with the
advice and consent of the Board of Trustees, for such term as determined at the
time of his appointment; however, such term of office shall expire no later
than the end of the term of the appointing President and as soon after as his
respective successor is appointed and has qualified. At the time of such
appointment, the Village Engineer need not be a resident of the Village, but
shall reside either within the Village or within a reasonable distance
therefrom during the term of office.
   B.   Upon the appointment of the Village Engineer, the President shall issue
a certificate of appointment, under the Corporate Seal, to the Village Clerk.
The Village Engineer shall be commissioned by warrant, under the Corporate
Seal, signed by the Village Clerk and the President. (Ord. 89-42, 9-25-1989;
amd. Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
1-8E-2: OATH OF OFFICE:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the Village Engineer shall take
and subscribe the oath as set forth in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-10-
25, as may be amended from time to time. This oath, so subscribed, shall be
filed in the Office of the Village Clerk. (Ord. 89-42, 9-25-1989; amd. 2012
Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
1-8E-3: COMPENSATION:
The Village Engineer shall receive such compensation as the President and Board
of Trustees shall determine by ordinance. No compensation shall be paid to the
Village Engineer in addition to that provided in the ordinance; except,
however, the Village Engineer shall be entitled to reimbursement for any
reasonable actual expenses incurred by him in the performance of his duties.
(Ord. 89-42, 9-25-1989; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
1-8E-4: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   The Village Engineer shall be generally responsible to the Corporate
Authorities in the performance of his statutory powers, duties and services,
but he shall be primarily responsible to and subject to the supervision,
direction and control of the Village Administrator. He shall be required to
attend regular and special meetings of the Village Board, Committee of the
Whole meetings and conferences as and when requested by the Village President,
the Board of Trustees and/or the Village Administrator.
   B.   The Village Engineer shall perform such duties, in addition to those
which may be prescribed by law, and shall be subject to such other rules and
regulations as the President and Board of Trustees may provide by ordinance
from time to time. Specifically, but without limitation, the Village Engineer
shall have the following duties: (Ord. 89-42, 9-25-1989; amd. Ord. 2017-42, 11-
13-2017)
      1.   Advise the Village President, Village Board of Trustees, and
Planning and Zoning Commission on all matters concerning the engineering and
construction of public works within the Village; (Ord. 89-42, 9-25-1989; amd.
2012 Code; Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
      2.   Review and approve or disapprove all engineering for all
subdivisions and public improvements within the corporate limits of the Village
and, to the extent permitted by State law or Village ordinance, for a distance
of one and one-half (11/2) miles outside the corporate limits of the Village;
      3.   Inspect and approve or disapprove the construction of all public
works within the corporate limits of the Village and, to the extent permitted
by State law or Village ordinance, for a distance of one and one-half (11/2)
miles outside the corporate limits of the Village;
      4.   Prepare all engineering plans and specifications for and the
supervision of all construction of all public improvements proposed to be
constructed by the Village; provided, that the President and Board of Trustees
may, in any instance where they deem it appropriate, retain an independent
engineer to prepare such engineering plans and specifications and supervise
such construction. In the event an independent engineer is retained as
aforesaid, the Village Engineer shall be responsible for the supervision of
such independent engineer and shall periodically report to the President and
Board of Trustees with respect to the performance of such independent engineer;
      5.   Prepare all long range planning and forecasts of public
improvements. The Village Engineer shall periodically advise the President,
Board of Trustees and the Village Administrator with respect thereto;
      6.   Maintain complete and accurate records of all public improvements in
the Village and establish standards for subdivision improvements as required by
the subdivision ordinance of the Village; and
      7.   Perform such other duties as may be delegated to him by the
ordinances of the Village or assigned to him by the President, the Board of
Trustees and/or the Village Administrator. (Ord. 89-42, 9-25-1989; amd. Ord.
2017-42, 11-13-2017)
1-8E-5: CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
The Village Engineer shall abide by the relevant provisions of the Illinois
Compiled Statutes pertaining to conflicts of interest, disclosure of economic
interests and contracts, including, but not limited to, 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/3.1-55-10 and 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 420/4A-101 et seq., and
as the same and any other relevant provisions of the State Statutes may be
amended from time to time by the Illinois General Assembly. The Village
Engineer shall promptly disclose any potential conflict of interest to the
Village Administrator. (Ord. 89-42, 9-25-1989; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42,
11-13-2017)
1-8E-6: REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
The Village Engineer may be removed by the President, on any formal charge,
whenever the President is of the opinion that the interests of the Village
demand removal. The President shall report the reasons for such removal to the
Village Board at a meeting to be held not less than five (5) nor more than ten
(10) days after the removal. If the President fails or refuses to report to the
Board of Trustees the reasons for the removal, or if the Village Board, by a
two-thirds (2/3) vote of all members authorized by law to be elected,
disapproves of the removal, the Village Engineer, thereupon, shall be restored
to office. Upon restoration, the Village Engineer shall give a new bond and
take a new oath of office. (Ord. 89-42, 9-25-1989; amd. Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-
2017)
CHAPTER 9
VILLAGE DEPARTMENTS
(Reserved) (Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
CHAPTER 10
CODE OF ETHICS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Statement Of Policy And Intent
1-10-2: Definitions
1-10-3: Financial Interest In Village Contracts Or Property
1-10-4: Disclosure Of Economic Interests
1-10-5: Incompatibility Of Office Or Employment
1-10-6: Prohibited Political Activities
1-10-7: Gift Ban
1-10-8: Confidential Information
1-10-9: Misuse Of Office Or Village Property
1-10-10: Complaints
1-10-11: Enforcement
1-10-12: Penalties
1-10-13: Copies To Village Officials And Personnel
1-10-14: Provisions Are Additional
1-10-1: STATEMENT OF POLICY AND INTENT:
   A.   All Village public officials and employees, paid or unpaid, hold their
positions for the benefit of the Village. They are bound to uphold the
Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois
and to carry out the laws of the Nation, the State and the Village. They are
obligated to faithfully discharge the duties of their office, acting
independently and impartially for the public interest. They are expected to
make and carry out decisions and policy within the proper channels of
government structure without prejudice or favoritism; the opportunity for
personal gain will not influence their actions or decisions. They are expected
to observe a high standard of conduct in the discharge of their official duties
and to avoid any actions that might, to a reasonable person, suggest the
appearance of impropriety.
   B.   This Code of Ethics, which defines the expectations of the community in
regard to the behavior of public officials and employees, is not intended to
work hardship on any individual dedicated to serving the public interest. It
should not exclude those who are best qualified to serve or work, nor violate
any individual's right to personal privacy. It is not intended to impair an
individual's ability to participate in functions associated with official
duties.
   C.   In recognition of these expectations, there is hereby established a
Code of Ethics for all public officials and employees. (Ord. 2004-59, 12-20-
2004)
1-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
APPOINTED OFFICERS: Shall include the Village Administrator, Finance Director-
Treasurer, Chief of Police and Village Engineer.
CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE: Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any Federal, State or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of presidential or vice
presidential electors, but does not include activities:
   A.   Relating to the support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or
administrative action;
   B.   Relating to collective bargaining; or
   C.   That are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
CANDIDATE: A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for nomination
or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill a vacancy
in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot at a
"regular election", as defined in section 1-3 of the Election Code 1 .
COLLECTIVE BARGAINING: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section
3 of the Illinois Public Labor Relations Act 2 .
COMMISSIONER/COMMITTEE MEMBER: Individuals appointed by the Village President
who serve on the Planning and Zoning Commission, Board of Fire and Police
Commissioners, Septemberfest Commission, Family Fest Commission, Police Pension
Board, or any other Village commission or committee formed by ordinance or
resolution duly adopted by the Village Board of Trustees.
COMPENSATED TIME: Means, with respect to an employee, any time worked by or
credited to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement
imposed as a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this
chapter, does not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal
time, compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of
absence. With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed,
"compensated time" includes any period of time when the officer is on premises
under the control of the employer and any other time when the covered
individual is executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
COMPENSATORY TIME OFF: Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an employee
to compensate, in whole or in part, for time worked in excess of the minimum
work time required of that employee as a condition of his or her employment.
CONTRIBUTION: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section 9-1.4 of
the Election Code 3 .
COVERED INDIVIDUAL: Village President, Trustee, appointed officer, Village
employee, commission member, and committee member.
ELECTED OFFICIALS: Shall include the Village President, Village Clerk, and
Village Trustees.
EMPLOYEE: Any person employed by the Village, but does not include independent
contractors, subcontractors, or elected public officials, or members of
commissions or committees.
EMPLOYER: The Village of Bloomingdale.
GIFT: Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance, or
other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
a covered individual.
LEAVE OF ABSENCE: Any period during which an employee does not receive:
   A.   Compensation for employment;
   B.   Service credit toward pension benefits; and
   C.   Health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
OFFICER: A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created by
statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity, including, but not limited to, the
Village President, the Village Clerk, the Board of Trustees, the Village
Administrator, the Village Finance Director-Treasurer, the Chief of Police and
the Village Engineer.
POLITICAL ACTIVITY: Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities:
   A.   Relating to the support or opposition of any executive, legislative, or
administrative action;
   B.   Relating to collective bargaining; or
   C.   That are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
POLITICAL ORGANIZATION: A party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the state board of elections or a county clerk under
section 9-3 of the election code 4 , but only with regard to those activities
that require filing with the state board of elections or county clerk.
PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY: A. Preparing for, organizing, or participating
in any political meeting, political rally, political demonstration, or other
political event.
   B.   Soliciting contributions including, but not limited to, the purchase
of, selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any political
fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event.
   C.   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document or
report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution.
   D.   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   E.   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters in
an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question.
   F.   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   G.   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls.
   H.   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
   I.   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office in
that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
   J.   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes.
   K.   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question.
   L.   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
   M.   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or against
any referendum question.
   N.   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention.
   O.   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
PROHIBITED SOURCE: Any person or entity who:
   A.   Is seeking official action:
      1.   By an officer; or
      2.   By an employee, or by the officer or another employee directing that
employee;
   B.   Does business or seeks to do business:
      1.   With the officer; or
      2.   With an employee, or with the officer or another employee directing
that employee;
   C.   Conducts activities regulated:
      1.   By the officer; or
      2.   By an employee, or by the officer or another employee directing that
employee; or
   D.   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or
nonperformance of the official duties of the covered individual. (Ord. 2004-59,
12-20-2004; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 10 ILCS 5/1-3.
2 2. 5 ILCS 315/3.
3 1. 10 ILCS 5/9-1.4.
4 1. 10 ILCS 5/9-3.
1-10-3: FINANCIAL INTEREST IN VILLAGE CONTRACTS OR PROPERTY:
   A.   Prohibited Interests:
      1.   No covered individual shall be interested, directly or indirectly,
in his or her own name or in the name of any other person, association, trust
or corporation, in any contract, work or business of the Village, or in the
sale of any article, whenever the expense, price or consideration of the
contract, work, business or sale is paid either from the Village Treasury or by
any assessment levied by statute or Village ordinance.
      2.   No covered individual shall be interested, directly or indirectly,
in the purchase of any property which:
         a.   Belongs to the Village; or
         b.   Is sold for taxes or assessments; or
         c.   Is sold by virtue of legal process at the suit of the Village.
   B.   Exemptions For Village President And Trustees: (The dollar amounts
included in the following paragraphs are those provided by State law.)
      1.   Less Than Seven And One-Half Percent Ownership Share: Any elected or
appointed Village President or Village Trustee may provide materials,
merchandise, property, services or labor to the Village if:
         a.   The contract is with a person, firm, partnership, corporation or
cooperative association in which such interested member of the Governing Body
of the Village has less than a seven and one-half percent (71/2%) share in the
ownership; and
         b.   Such interested member publicly discloses the nature and extent
of his or her interest prior to or during deliberations concerning the proposed
award of the contract; and
         c.   Such interested member abstains from voting on the award of the
contract; and
         d.   Such contract is approved by a majority vote of those members
presently holding office; and
         e.   The contract is awarded after sealed bids to the lowest
responsible bidder if the amount of the contract exceeds one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00), but the contract may be awarded without bidding if
the amount is less than one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00); and
         f.   The award of the contract would not cause the aggregate amount of
such contracts so awarded to the same person, firm, association, partnership,
corporation, or cooperative association in the same fiscal year to exceed
twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00).
      2.   Contracts For Less Than Two Thousand Dollars: Any elected or
appointed Village President or Village Trustee may provide materials,
merchandise, property, services or labor if:
         a.   The award of the contract is approved by a majority vote of the
governing body of the village; provided, that any such interested member shall
abstain from voting; and
         b.   The amount of the contract does not exceed two thousand dollars
($2,000.00); and
         c.   The award of the contract would not cause the aggregate amount of
all such contracts so awarded to the same person, firm, association,
partnership, corporation, or cooperative association in the same fiscal year to
exceed four thousand dollars ($4,000.00); and
         d.   Such interested member publicly discloses the nature and extent
of his or her interests prior to or during deliberations concerning the
proposed award of the contract.
      3.   Public Utility Services: A contract for the procurement of public
utility services by the village with a public utility company is not barred by
this section by one or more members of the corporate authorities being a
covered individual of the public utility company or holding an ownership
interest of no more than seven and one-half percent (71/2%) in the public
utility company.
      4.   Financial Services With A Local Bank: Nothing contained in this
section shall preclude a contract of deposit of monies, loans or other
financial services by the village with a local bank or local savings and loan
association, regardless of whether the village president or a trustee is
interested in such bank or savings and loan association as a covered individual
or as a holder of less than seven and one-half percent (71/2%) of the total
ownership interest. Such interested member of the corporate authorities must
publicly state the nature and extent of his or her interest during
deliberations concerning the proposed award of such a contract, but shall not
participate in any further deliberations concerning the proposed award. Such
interested member or members shall not vote on such a proposed award. The award
of such a contract shall require approval by a majority vote of those members
presently holding office. Consideration and award of any such contract in which
a member or members are interested may only be made at a regularly scheduled
public meeting of the village board of trustees.
   C.   Exemptions For Employees Or Committee Or Commission Members: Any
employee or committee or commission member may provide materials, merchandise,
property, services or labor if:
      1.   Less Than Seven And One-Half Percent Ownership Share:
         a.   The contract is with a person, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, or cooperative association in which such employee has less than a
seven and one-half percent (71/2%) share in the ownership; and
         b.   The contract is awarded after sealed bids to the lowest
responsible bidder if the amount of the contract exceeds one thousand five
hundred dollars ($1,500.00), or awarded without bidding if the amount of the
contract is less than one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00); and
         c.   The award of the contract would not cause the aggregate amount of
all such contracts so awarded to the same person, firm, association,
partnership, corporation or cooperative association in the same fiscal year to
exceed twenty five thousand dollars ($25,000.00).
      2.   Contracts For Less Than Two Thousand Dollars: In addition, any
employee or committee or commission member may provide materials, merchandise,
property, services or labor, regardless of the size of ownership interest the
employee or committee or commission member may have in the contracting entity,
if:
         a.   The amount of the contract does not exceed two thousand dollars
($2,000.00); and
         b.   The award of the contract would not cause the aggregate amount of
all such contracts so awarded to the same person, firm, association,
partnership, corporation, or cooperative association in the same fiscal year to
exceed four thousand dollars ($4,000.00).
      3.   Public Utility Contracts: A contract for the procurement of public
utility services by the village with a public utility company is not barred by
this section when an employee or committee or commission member is also a
covered individual of the public utility company, or when an employee or
committee or commission member holds an ownership interest of any size in the
public utility company.
      4.   Financial Services By A Local Bank: Nothing in this section shall
preclude a contract of deposit of monies, loans or other financial services by
the village with a local bank or local savings and loan association regardless
of whether a village employee or committee or commission member is interested
in such bank or savings and loan association as a covered individual or a
holder of an ownership interest of any size in such an institution.
      5.   Purchase Of Property At Auction: Nothing in this section shall
prohibit any employee or committee or commission member from bidding on and
purchasing property auctioned by the village at an auction open to all members
of the general public, whether the auction is sponsored by the village or by an
association of municipalities, such as the Northwest Municipal Conference.
(Ord. 2004-59, 12-20-2004)
1-10-4: DISCLOSURE OF ECONOMIC INTERESTS:
All elected officials, appointed officers, commissioners, committee members and
employees required to file economic disclosure statements with the county clerk
pursuant to article 4A of the Illinois governmental ethics act 1 , shall be in
violation of this code of ethics if they fail to comply with and fulfill the
requirements set forth in the state act. (Ord. 2004-59, 12-20-2004; amd. 2012
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 420/4A-101 et seq.
1-10-5: INCOMPATIBILITY OF OFFICE OR EMPLOYMENT:
No covered individual shall hold another office or position of employment where
the duties of either office or employment are such that the holder cannot, in
every instance, properly and faithfully perform all of the duties of the other
office or position of employment in accordance with federal and state laws.
This section is not intended to automatically exclude a village employee from
holding an appointed office or position with a local board, commission or
committee, nor to prohibit an appointed commissioner or committee member from
also holding a position of employment with the village, either with or without
compensation, unless, as provided in this section, the commissioner, committee
member, officer or employee cannot, in every instance, properly and faithfully
perform all of the duties of both positions. When any questions arise under
this section, the opinion of the office of the Illinois attorney general shall
be sought, and that opinion shall be followed. (Ord. 2004-59, 12-20-2004)
1-10-6: PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES:
   A.   No covered individual shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any "compensated time", as defined in section
1-10-2 of this chapter. No covered individual shall intentionally use any
property or resources of the village in connection with any prohibited
political activity.
   B.   At no time shall any covered individual intentionally require any other
covered individual to perform any prohibited political activity:
      1.   As part of that covered individual's duties;
      2.   As a condition of employment; or
      3.   During any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or
personal time off).
   C.   No covered individual shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that covered individual
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment or
otherwise, nor shall any covered individual be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   D.   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for a
covered individual to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by a covered individual on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this chapter.
   E.   No person either: 1) in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment; or 2) in a position, the salary for which is
paid in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the federal
standards for a merit system of personnel administration applicable to grant in
aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party, or of a political organization or club. (Ord. 2004-59, 12-20-
2004)
1-10-7: GIFT BAN:
   A.   Prohibitions And Exceptions:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no elected or
appointed official, officer, member or village employee shall intentionally
solicit or accept any gift from any prohibited source or in violation of any
federal or state statute, rule, or regulation. This ban applies to and includes
the spouse of and immediate family living with the official, officer, member,
or village employee. No prohibited source shall intentionally offer or make a
gift that violates this subsection. The restriction does not apply to the
following:
         a.   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the
same conditions as for the general public.
         b.   Anything for which the covered individual pays the market value.
         c.   Any:
            (1)   Contribution that is lawfully made under the election code or
under this chapter; or
            (2)   Activities associated with a fundraising event in support of
a political organization or candidate.
         d.   Educational materials and missions.
         e.   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss village business.
         f.   A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half
sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the
individual's spouse and the individual's fiance or fiancee.
         g.   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the member, officer, or employee has reason to believe that,
under the circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position
or employment of the member, officer, or employee and not because of the
personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is provided on the basis of
personal friendship, the member, officer, or employee shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as:
            (1)   The history of the relationship between the individual giving
the gift and the recipient of the gift, including any previous exchange of
gifts between those individuals;
            (2)   Whether, to the actual knowledge of the member, officer, or
employee, the individual who gave the gift personally paid for the gift or
sought a tax deduction or business reimbursement for the gift; and
            (3)   Whether, to the actual knowledge of the member, officer, or
employee, the individual who gave the gift also, at the same time, gave the
same or similar gifts to other members, officers, or employees.
         h.   Food or refreshments not exceeding seventy five dollars ($75.00)
per person in value on a single calendar day; provided, that the food or
refreshments are: 1) consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared; or 2) catered. For the purposes of this section, "catered" means food
or refreshments that are purchased ready to eat and delivered by any means.
         i.   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the duties of the officer, member, or employee as an
office holder or employee) of the officer, member, or employee, or the spouse
of the officer, member, or employee, if the benefits have not been offered or
enhanced because of the official position or employment of the officer, member,
or employee, and are customarily provided to others in similar circumstances.
         j.   Intragovernmental and intergovernmental gifts. For the purpose of
this chapter, "intragovernmental gift" means any gift given to a covered
individual from another covered individual, and "intergovernmental gift" means
any gift given to a covered individual by a member, officer, or employee of
another governmental entity.
         k.   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
         l.   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
      2.   Each of the exceptions listed in this subsection is mutually
exclusive and independent of one another.
   B.   Disposition Of Gifts: A covered individual does not violate this
chapter if the covered individual promptly takes reasonable action to return
the prohibited gift to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to its
value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under
section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code of 1986, as now or hereafter
amended, renumbered, or succeeded. (Ord. 2004-59, 12-20-2004)
1-10-8: CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION:
No covered individual shall, without proper legal authorization, disclose
confidential information, including executive session materials and
discussions, concerning the property, government, or affairs of the village.
The use of confidential information to advance the financial or any other
private interest of any covered individual or any other person is prohibited.
(Ord. 2004-59, 12-20-2004)
1-10-9: MISUSE OF OFFICE OR VILLAGE PROPERTY:
   A.   Misuse Of Office: No covered individual shall use his or her position
for individual gain rather than for the benefit of the village.
   B.   Use Of Public Property: No covered individual shall request or permit
the use of village owned vehicles, equipment, materials or any other property
for personal use or personal profit, except when the property is made available
to the public in general or provided to the covered individual for his or her
use as part of an approved village policy, adopted by either the board of
trustees or the village administrator. It is expected that covered individuals
shall report suspected violations of this subsection. (Ord. 2004-59, 12-20-
2004)
1-10-10: COMPLAINTS:
   A.   It is not the intention of this chapter to permit complaints designed
to harass, embarrass or to serve a political purpose. It is the intention of
this chapter to bring forth well grounded allegations of violations of this
chapter.
   B.   Any person wishing to file a complaint against a covered individual
alleging a violation shall do so by filing a written, signed complaint in the
office of the village administrator in the case of village employees or to the
village president in the case of the village administrator, other elected
officials, or commissioners for processing in the appropriate manner.
Complaints regarding the village president shall be filed with the village
attorney. Copies of said complaint shall be distributed as provided herein.
   C.   Any such complaint shall be based on personal knowledge and shall
include a statement of facts and circumstances sufficient to inform the covered
individual of the nature of the alleged violation. All complaints shall be
signed by the person or persons bringing them forth and having knowledge of the
matters stated therein and shall be accompanied by a certification swearing,
under oath, that the statements set forth therein are true and correct. Any
person who intentionally makes a false statement in a complaint shall be in
violation of this code of ethics.
   D.   Within two (2) business days of receiving a complaint, the village
clerk shall forward a copy to the person alleged to be in violation of this
code of ethics. Complaints made regarding a village employee or appointed
officer who is subject to disciplinary procedures under the village personnel
manual and state law shall also be forwarded to the offices of the village
president and village administrator. Complaints regarding employees subject to
the jurisdiction of the board of fire and police commissioners shall also be
forwarded to each commissioner, along with the village president and village
administrator. Complaints made regarding all appointed officers shall be
forwarded to the village president. Complaints made regarding the village
president, trustees, or commission/committee members shall be forwarded to the
village president and each of the trustees. (Ord. 2004-59, 12-20-2004)
1-10-11: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement Officials:
      1.   The enforcement of this code of ethics against any appointed officer
and employees covered by the village personnel manual and state law, which
could result in disciplinary action, including, but not limited to, suspension
or removal from village employment, shall be the responsibility of the village
president and the village administrator.
      2.   Complaints against employees subject to the jurisdiction of the
board of fire and police commissioners shall be enforced by that board.
   B.   Enforcement Of Complaints:
      1.   Any applicable procedure requiring notification of the allegations
and a hearing which is required, either by federal law, state law, the village
personnel manual, or any applicable ordinance, shall be followed by the
administrator and board of fire and police commissioners in enforcing this
chapter.
      2.   Each complaint received by the village president involving appointed
officers shall be enforced by the village president, in accord with state law.
      3.   Each complaint received by the board of trustees involving the
village president, trustees, or commission/committee members shall be enforced
by the board of trustees, in accord with state law.
      4.   Violations of this chapter which would require judicial procedure
for enforcement shall be forwarded to the county state's attorney. (Ord. 2004-
59, 12-20-2004)
1-10-12: PENALTIES:
Any person found to be in violation of this code of ethics by the appropriate
enforcing person, officer or public body shall be subject to reprimand,
censure, suspension, removal or other appropriate disciplinary/monetary action
to the extent allowed by the law. If a complaint is determined to be
intentionally false, the complaining party shall be liable to the party
complained of for all legal expenses incurred in the defense of the complaint.
If a violation of this chapter results in a direct loss of funds or property to
the village, the person found guilty of such a violation shall make restitution
to the village for such a loss. (Ord. 2004-59, 12-20-2004)
1-10-13: COPIES TO VILLAGE OFFICIALS AND PERSONNEL:
A copy of this code of ethics shall be provided to all elected officials,
appointed officers and appointed commissioners/committee members upon beginning
their term of office. A copy of this code of ethics shall be provided to all
employees upon its passage and to new employees upon employment. All appointed
officers, employees, and commission and committee members shall sign a receipt
acknowledging delivery of the code of ethics in a manner to be determined by
the village administrator. Notwithstanding the foregoing, failure to receive a
copy of same shall not constitute a defense for any violation of this code of
ethics. (Ord. 2004-59, 12-20-2004)
1-10-14: PROVISIONS ARE ADDITIONAL:
The requirements set forth in this chapter are in addition to, and not a
substitute for, any similar requirements provided under state or federal law.
(Ord. 2004-59, 12-20-2004)
CHAPTER 11
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION RULES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
1-11-1: Public Records
1-11-2: Freedom Of Information Act Officer
1-11-3: Procedure For Filing Request
1-11-4: Inspection Of Records
1-11-5: Procedure For Fulfilling Request
1-11-6: Time For Production Of Records
1-11-7: Fees And Waivers
1-11-8: Exempt And Nonexempt Records
1-11-9: Intent To Deny Records
1-11-10: Denial Of Records; Exemptions
1-11-11: Appeal To Denial Of Request
1-11-12: Binding Opinion
1-11-1: PUBLIC RECORDS:
   A.   The village recognizes that, pursuant to 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes
140/1, the Illinois freedom of information act ("FOIA") provides that it is a
primary obligation of public bodies to provide records.
   B.   The village also recognizes that, pursuant to 5 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 140/3.3 of the FOIA, public bodies are not required to interpret or
advise requesters as to the meaning or significance of public records.
   C.   The village also recognizes that, pursuant to 5 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 140/1 of the FOIA, public bodies are not obligated to create a public
record which was not already created or prepared by the public body.
   D.   Pursuant to the authority contained in the FOIA, the village hereby
promulgates this chapter as the rules and regulations, but to the extent that
said rules and regulations might otherwise be interpreted as inconsistent with
the FOIA, the FOIA shall govern in all respects. (2012 Code)
1-11-2: FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT OFFICER:
   A.   Position Created: There is hereby created the position of "freedom of
information act officer" ("FOIA officer"). There may be one or more FOIA
officer(s) designated. The corporate authorities of the village will designate
one or more officials or employees of the village to act as a freedom of
information officer, and the village shall disclose the identity of its FOIA
officer(s) on either its website or by means of a list of such officers
available for public access. The list of FOIA officer(s) shall also be provided
to the state's public access counselor ("PAC").
   B.   Duties And Responsibilities: The FOIA officer(s) or his or her designee
shall have the following duties and responsibilities:
      1.   Training: Initially, within six (6) months after January 1, 2010,
all FOIA officers shall successfully complete, via electronic means, a training
course administered by the Illinois PAC. All FOIA officer(s) shall thereafter
complete additional training on an annual basis. New FOIA officers must
complete the curriculum within thirty (30) days after their appointment to the
position.
      2.   Responsibilities: The FOIA officer shall be responsible for:
         a.   Receiving FOIA requests.
         b.   Ensuring timely responses to FOIA requests.
         c.   Issuing FOIA responses.
         d.   Developing a list of documents or categories of records that the
village will immediately disclose upon request.
         e.   Meeting with requesters to inspect records in his or her
presence.
      3.   Duties: Upon receiving an FOIA request, the FOIA officer shall do
the following:
         a.   Note the date the village received the written request;
         b.   Compute the day on which the period for response will expire and
make a notation of that date on the written request;
         c.   Maintain an electronic or paper copy of a written request,
including all documents submitted with the request until there has been
compliance with the request or the request has been denied; and
         d.   Create a file for the retention of each original request, a copy
of the response, a record of written communications with the requester, and a
copy of other related communications.
      4.   Notices: The FOIA officer or his or her designee is authorized to
issue notices of extension of time for production of records as well as notices
of denial and/or intent to deny production of records.
   C.   Posting And Providing Information: In compliance with the provisions of
the Illinois FOIA, the village shall prominently display at its administrative
office at the village hall, make available for inspection and copying, and send
through the mail, if requested, any or all of the following:
      1.   A brief description of itself, including a short summary of its
purpose, a block diagram giving its functional subdivisions, the total amount
of its operating budget, the number and location of all of its separate
offices, the approximate number of full and part time employees, and the
identification and membership of any board, commission, committee, or council
which operates in an advisory capacity relative to the operation of the public
body, or which exercises control over its policies or procedures, or to which
the public body is required to report and be answerable for its operations; and
      2.   A brief description of the methods whereby the public may request
information and public records, a directory designating the freedom of
information officer or officers, the address where requests for public records
should be directed, and any fees allowable under the FOIA.
      3.   The village shall also post this information on any website the
village maintains. (2012 Code)
1-11-3: PROCEDURE FOR FILING REQUEST:
   A.   Pursuant to the FOIA, requests for inspection of or copies of records
shall be made in writing and directed to the village FOIA officer, but no
standard form for such request is required. Requests may be made by
appointment, mail, e-mail, facsimile request, or personal delivery. If a
requester wishes, the FOIA officer will provide the requester with a "freedom
of information act request form" for his or her use.
   B.   Questions regarding access to village records shall be directed to the
FOIA officer or his or her designee. In consideration of the type, size, and
complexity of the document(s) requested, it may be necessary for a requester to
make an appointment with the FOIA officer to answer questions or review
documents. (2012 Code)
1-11-4: INSPECTION OF RECORDS:
   A.   Inspection; Copies: The FOIA officer or his or her designee shall
obtain the file or files requested and allow the requester to inspect them in
his or her presence. Should the requester request copies of all or a portion of
the information, the requester must indicate in writing, or on the FOIA request
form what copies are desired, and the FOIA officer or his or her designee will
make the requested copies and provide them to the requester within the time
frame prescribed by the FOIA, provided, however, that such information is not
determined to be exempt.
   B.   Redaction Of Exempt Information: For any request made to inspect and/or
photocopy a public record containing information that is both exempt from
disclosure and not exempt from disclosure, the village shall make only the
nonexempt information available for inspection and/or photocopying by redacting
the exempt information from the document.
   C.   Hours: Public records may only be inspected at the village hall during
the hours when it is regularly open.
   D.   Business Days: Monday through Friday, both inclusive, except holidays,
as defined or fixed by any statute of the state, are hereby declared to be
"business days".
   E.   Search, Location And Reproduction Of Records: Only village personnel
shall be permitted to search village files to locate records requested, and
only village personnel shall be permitted to operate village equipment to
reproduce the requested copies. (2012 Code)
1-11-5: PROCEDURE FOR FULFILLING REQUEST:
Upon receiving an FOIA request, the FOIA officer or his or her designee shall:
   A.   Note the date the village received the written request;
   B.   Compute the day on which the period for response will expire and make a
notation of that date on the written request (5 business days, or a reasonable
time of up to 21 business days for requests for commercial purposes);
   C.   Maintain an electronic or paper copy of a written request, including
all documents submitted with the request until there has been compliance with
the request or the request has been denied;
   D.   Meet with requesters, if necessary, to inspect records in his or her
presence;
   E.   Create a file for the retention of each original request, a copy of the
response, a record of written communications with the requester, and a copy of
other related communications;
   F.   Assemble and duplicate the requested records, except for records which
are exempt, and redact any records which may be partially exempt; and
   G.   Notify the requester, in writing, of the status of production of the
requested records, i.e., that such records are ready and available for the
requester, that production of the records is denied in whole or in part and the
reasons therefor, and/or that the village intends to deny such request and is
so notifying the Illinois PAC. (2012 Code)
1-11-6: TIME FOR PRODUCTION OF RECORDS:
   A.   Pursuant to the FOIA, the village is required to produce the requested
records within five (5) business days of receipt of the request, excluding the
day the request was received by the village.
   B.   Relative to requests for commercial purposes, the village is required
to produce the requested records within a "reasonable period", up to twenty one
(21) business days. "Commercial enterprise", as used in the FOIA, shall include
both profit and not for profit ventures, organizations and entities. The
village may inquire as to whether the records requested are sought to advance a
commercial purpose, and if a requester attempts to procure a public record for
a commercial purpose without disclosing that the use is for a commercial
purpose, that constitutes a violation of the FOIA. The village response to such
commercial requests may include an estimate of the time it may take to provide
the requested records and an estimate of the fees to be charged, and may
require the requester to pay the copying charges in full before the copies are
made.
   C.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a request is delivered on a day which
is not a business day, or after the close of business, the request shall be
deemed made on the first business day subsequent thereto.
   D.   If, upon review of the request, the FOIA officer or his or her designee
finds that he or she is not able to compile all of the necessary information
immediately, another time may be arranged within the prescribed time frame for
the requester to return to receive a response to the request.
   E.   The FOIA officer or his or her designee may extend the time limit for
responding to a request by an additional five (5) business days where:
      1.   The requested record is in a place other than the office in charge
of the record.
      2.   The request requires an extensive search.
      3.   The records have not been found in time and additional efforts are
necessary to retrieve them.
      4.   The record requires examination to determine if it should be exempt
from viewing.
      5.   Compliance with the request would cause undue burden or interfere
with the operations of the village. (Repeated requests for the same information
by the same person shall be deemed unduly burdensome under this provision.)
   F.   If it is necessary to extend the time limit for production of records,
the requester will be notified, in writing, by the FOIA officer or his or her
designee within five (5) business days of receipt of the request, and such
notice will give the reason for the extension. Failure to respond to the
request within five (5) business days is considered a denial of the request.
(2012 Code)
1-11-7: FEES AND WAIVERS:
   A.   Each requester is required to pay to the village the appropriate fees
for copies of village records and will receive a receipt for same. The village
will charge the following fees for reproduction or copying of records as set
forth in the FOIA:
      1.   There is no charge for providing the initial fifty (50) pages of
black and white, letter or legal size copies. The cost after fifty (50) pages
will be fifteen cents ($0.15) per page.
      2.   The fee for color or irregular sized copies shall be the actual cost
incurred by the village for reproducing the records.
      3.   If the village maintains the respective document(s) in electronic
format, such document(s) must be furnished in the electronic format if the
requester so requests. The village is not required to produce records kept in
electronic format in an alternate manner. The fee charged for producing records
in an electronic format shall be the actual cost incurred by the village for
purchasing the recording medium.
   B.   All payments for production of records shall be made in the form of
cash or certified or cashier's check made payable to the village.
   C.   Requests to waive any fee(s) for reproduction of document(s) must be
made, in writing, to a village FOIA officer and must state how the information
requested "primarily benefits the general public". The FOIA officer shall be
authorized to determine whether such request for a waiver shall be honored.
(2012 Code)
1-11-8: EXEMPT AND NONEXEMPT RECORDS:
   A.   The FOIA officer or his or her designee may not give out information
which falls within one or more of the following exempt categories:
      1.   Disclosure of the requested information is specifically prohibited
by federal or state law or rules and regulations implementing federal or state
law.
      2.   The information requested is "private information", unless
disclosure is required by another provision of the FOIA, a state or federal
law, or a court order.
      3.   The information requested is a file(s), document(s), and/or other
data or database(s) maintained by one or more law enforcement agencies and
specifically designed to provide information to one or more law enforcement
agencies regarding the physical or mental status of one or more individual
subjects (P.A. 96-0558).
      4.   The documents requested relate to personal information contained
within public records, the disclosure of which would constitute a clearly
unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, unless the disclosure is consented
to, in writing, by the individual subjects of the information. "Unwarranted
invasion of personal privacy" means the disclosure of information that is
highly personal or objectionable to a reasonable person and in which the
subject's right to privacy outweighs any legitimate public interest in
obtaining the information. The disclosure of information that bears on the
public duties of public employees and officials shall not be considered an
invasion of personal privacy.
      5.   The documents requested are in the possession of the public body and
were created in the course of administrative enforcement proceedings, and any
law enforcement or correctional agency for law enforcement purposes, and that
disclosure would do one or more of the following:
         a.   Interfere with pending or actually and reasonably contemplated
law enforcement proceedings conducted by any law enforcement or correctional
agency that is the recipient of the request;
         b.   Interfere with active administrative enforcement proceedings
conducted by the public body that is the recipient of the request;
         c.   Create a substantial likelihood that a person will be deprived of
a fair trial or an impartial hearing;
         d.   Unavoidably disclose the identity of a confidential source,
confidential information furnished only by the confidential source, or persons
who file complaints with or provide information to administrative,
investigative, law enforcement, or penal agencies; except, that the identities
of witnesses to traffic accidents, traffic accident reports, and rescue reports
shall be provided by agencies of local government except when disclosure would
interfere with an active criminal investigation conducted by the agency that is
the recipient of the request;
         e.   Disclose unique or specialized investigative techniques other
than those generally used and known or disclose internal documents of
correctional agencies related to detection, observation or investigation of
incidents of crime or misconduct, and disclosure would result in demonstrable
harm to the agency or public body that is the recipient of the request;
         f.   Endanger the life or physical safety of law enforcement personnel
or any other person; or
         g.   Obstruct an ongoing criminal investigation by the agency that is
the recipient of the request.
      6.   The document(s) requested is a record that relates to or affects the
security of correctional institutions and detention facilities.
      7.   The documents requested are preliminary drafts, notes,
recommendations, memoranda and other records in which opinions are expressed,
or policies or actions are formulated; except, that a specific record or
relevant portion of a record shall not be exempt when the record is publicly
cited and identified by the head of the public body.
      8.   The document(s) requested would disclose trade secrets and
commercial or financial information obtained from a person or business where
the trade secrets or commercial or financial information are furnished under a
claim that they are proprietary, privileged or confidential, and that
disclosure of the trade secrets or commercial or financial information would
cause competitive harm to the person or business, and the claim directly
applies to the records requested, including all trade secrets and commercial or
financial information obtained by a public body, including a public pension
fund, from a private equity fund or a privately held company within the
investment portfolio of a private equity fund as a result of either investing
or evaluating a potential investment of public funds in a private equity fund.
This exemption does not apply to the aggregate financial performance
information of a private equity fund, nor to the identity of the fund's
managers or general partners. This exemption does not apply to the identity of
a privately held company within the investment portfolio of a private equity
fund, unless the disclosure of the identity of a privately held company may
cause competitive harm. Nothing contained in this exemption is to be construed
to prevent a person or business from consenting to disclosure.
      9.   The documents requested constitute proposals or bids for a contract,
grant or agreement, including information which, if it were disclosed, would
frustrate procurement or give an advantage to any person proposing to enter
into a contract or agreement with the body, until an award or final selection
is made. Information prepared by or for the body in preparation of a bid
solicitation is exempt until an award or final selection is made.
      10.   The documents requested are valuable formulas, computer geographic
systems, designs, drawings or research data obtained or produced by any public
body when disclosure could reasonably be expected to produce private gain or
public loss. The exemption for "computer geographic systems" does not extend to
requests made by "news media", as defined in section 2 of the FOIA 1 , when the
requested information is not otherwise exempt, and the only purpose of the
request is to access and disseminate information regarding the health, safety,
welfare, or legal rights of the general public.
      11.   The documents requested are architect plans, engineer technical
submissions, and other construction related technical documents for projects
not constructed or developed in whole or in part with public funds and the same
for projects constructed or developed with public funds, including, but not
limited to, power generating and distribution stations and other transmission
and distribution facilities, water treatment facilities, airport facilities,
sport stadiums, convention centers, and all government owned, operated, or
occupied buildings, but only to the extent that disclosure would compromise
security.
      12.   The documents requested are minutes of meetings of public bodies
closed to the public as provided in the open meetings act until the public body
makes the minutes available to the public under section 2.06 of the open
meetings act 2 .
      13.   The documents requested constitute or reflect communications
between a public body and an attorney or auditor representing the public body
that would not be subject to discovery in litigation, and materials prepared or
compiled by or for a public body in anticipation of a criminal, civil or
administrative proceeding upon the request of an attorney advising the public
body, and materials prepared or compiled with respect to internal audits of
public bodies.
      14.   The documents requested are records relating to a public body's
adjudication of employee grievances or disciplinary cases, but this exemption
does not extend to the final outcome of cases in which discipline is imposed.
      15.   The documents requested relate to administrative or technical
information associated with automated data processing operations, including,
but not limited to, software, operating protocols, computer program abstracts,
file layouts, source listings, object modules, load modules, user guides,
documentation pertaining to all logical and physical design of computerized
systems, employee manuals, and any other information that, if disclosed, would
jeopardize the security of the system or its data or the security of materials
under this exemption.
      16.   The documents requested relate to records relating to collective
negotiating matters between public bodies and their employees or
representatives, but any final contract or agreement is subject to inspection
and copying.
      17.   The documents requested relate to test questions, scoring keys, and
other examination data used to determine the qualifications of an applicant for
a license or employment.
      18.   The documents requested relate to records, documents and
information relating to real estate purchase negotiations until those
negotiations have been completed or otherwise terminated. With regard to a
parcel involved in a pending or actually and reasonably contemplated eminent
domain proceeding under the eminent domain act 3 , records, documents and
information relating to that parcel are exempt except as may be allowed under
discovery rules adopted by the Illinois supreme court. The records, documents
and information relating to a real estate sale are exempt until a sale is
consummated.
      19.   The documents requested relate to any and all proprietary
information and records related to the operation of an intergovernmental risk
management association or self- insurance pool or jointly self-administered
health and accident cooperative or pool, including any claims, loss or risk
management information, records, data, advice or communications.
      20.   The documents requested relate to information contained in or
related to examination, operating, or condition reports prepared by, on behalf
of, or for the use of a public body responsible for the regulation or
supervision of financial institutions or insurance companies, unless disclosure
is otherwise required by state law.
      21.   The documents requested relate to information that would disclose
or might lead to the disclosure of secret or confidential information, codes,
algorithms, programs, or private keys intended to be used to create electronic
or digital signatures under the electronic commerce security act 4 .
      22.   The documents requested relate to vulnerability assessments,
security measures, and response policies or plans that are designed to
identify, prevent, or respond to potential attacks upon a community's
population or systems, facilities, or installations, the destruction or
contamination of which would constitute a clear and present danger to the
health or safety of the community, but only to the extent that disclosure could
reasonably be expected to jeopardize the effectiveness of the measures or the
safety of the personnel who implement them or the public. Information under
this exemption may include such things as details pertaining to the
mobilization or deployment of personnel or equipment, to the operation of
communication systems or protocols, or to tactical operations.
      23.   The documents requested relate to maps and other records regarding
the location or security of generation, transmission, distribution, storage,
gathering, treatment, or switching facilities owned by a utility, by a power
generator, or by the Illinois power agency.
      24.   The documents requested relate to information contained in or
related to proposals, bids, or negotiations related to electric power
procurement under section 1-75 of the Illinois power agency act 5  and section
16-111.5 of the public utilities act 6  that is determined to be confidential
and proprietary by the Illinois power agency or by the Illinois commerce
commission.
      25.   The documents requested relate to one or more of the following
statutory exemptions to the extent provided for by such specific statute(s):
         a.   Firm performance evaluations under section 55 of the
architectural, engineering, and land surveying qualifications based selection
act 7 .
         b.   Information contained in a local emergency energy plan submitted
to a municipality in accordance with a local emergency energy plan ordinance
that is adopted under section 11-21.5-5 of the Illinois municipal code 8 .
         c.   Information and data concerning the distribution of surcharge
monies collected and remitted by wireless carriers under the wireless emergency
telephone safety act 9 .
         d.   Law enforcement officer identification information or driver
identification information compiled by a law enforcement agency or the
department of transportation under section 11-212 of the Illinois vehicle code
10 .
         e.   Records and information provided to a residential healthcare
facility resident sexual assault and death review team or the executive council
under the abuse prevention review team act 11 .
         f.   Information that is prohibited from being disclosed under section
4 of the Illinois health and hazardous substances registry act 12 .
         g.   Information prohibited from being disclosed by the personnel
records review act 13 .
         h.   Information prohibited from being disclosed by the Illinois
school student records act 14 .
         i.   Information, the disclosure of which is restricted under section
5-108 of the public utilities act 15 . (2012 Code)
 
Notes
1  1. 5 ILCS 140/2.
2  2. 5 ILCS 120/2.06.
3  1. 735 ILCS 30/1-1-1 et seq.
4  2. 5 ILCS 175/1-101 et seq.
5  1. 20 ILCS 3855/1-75.
6  2. 220 ILCS 5/16-111.5.
7  3. 30 ILCS 535/55.
8  4. 65 ILCS 5/11-21.5-5.
9  5. 50 ILCS 751/1 et seq.
10 6. 625 ILCS 5/11-212.
11 7. 210 ILCS 28/1 et seq.
12 8. 410 ILCS 525/4.
13 1. 820 ILCS 40/0.01 et seq.
14 2. 105 ILCS 10/1 et seq.
15 3. 220 ILCS 5/5-108.
1-11-9: INTENT TO DENY RECORDS:
   A.   If the village intends to deny an FOIA request, in whole or in part,
pursuant to 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/7(1)(c) (related to personal
information) or 140/7(1)(f) (related to drafts, notes, recommendations, or
memoranda where opinions are expressed or policies or actions formulated), the
FOIA officer shall, within the time period(s) provided for responding to a
request, send written notice of its intent to deny the request, in whole or in
part, in the form of a "notice of intent to deny request for records" to the
PAC, with a copy to the requester. The address of the PAC is:
Public Access Counselor
Office Of The Attorney General
100 West Randolph, 12th Floor
Chicago, IL 60601
Tel.: (312) 814-5526
Public Access Counselor
Office Of The Attorney General
500 S. 2nd Street
Springfield, IL 62706
Tel.: (877) 299-3642
Fax: (217) 782-1396
E-mail: publicaccess@atg.state.il.us
   B.   The notice of intent to deny request for records shall include: a copy
of the FOIA request; the village's proposed response; and a detailed summary of
the village's basis for asserting the exemption. Within five (5) days of
receipt of said notice of intent to deny access to records, the PAC shall
notify the village and the requester whether further inquiry is warranted.
(2012 Code)
1-11-10: DENIAL OF RECORDS; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   If requested information cannot be released due to its exempt nature,
or if a request is unduly burdensome, the FOIA officer or his or her designee
shall complete a "denial of request for records" form and mail same to the
requester along with a blank "notice of appeal" form. The denial of request for
records form shall include: 1) the decision to deny the request; 2) the reasons
for the denial, including a detailed factual basis for the application of any
exemption claimed; 3) the names and titles or positions of each person
responsible for the denial; 4) the right to review by the PAC and the address
and phone number for the PAC; and 5) the right to judicial review. If an
exemption is claimed, then the denial shall include the specific reason(s) for
the denial, including a detailed factual basis and a citation to support legal
authority.
   B.   A copy of each such denial letter and the completed request form shall
also be provided to the village president and the village attorney. Copies of
all notices of denial shall be retained by the FOIA officer or his or her
designee in a central file that is publicly accessible and indexed by type of
exemption. (2012 Code)
1-11-11: APPEAL TO DENIAL OF REQUEST:
   A.   If a request for records is denied, the requester has a right to seek
judicial review of such denial pursuant to 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/11,
or the requester may, within sixty (60) days from receipt of such denial,
pursuant to 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 140/9.5, file an appeal to the denial
of production of records directed to the Illinois PAC, whose address is:
Public Access Counselor
Office Of The Attorney General
100 West Randolph, 12th Floor
Chicago, IL 60601
Tel.: (312) 814-5526
Public Access Counselor
Office Of The Attorney General
500 S. 2nd Street
Springfield, IL 62706
Tel.: (877) 299-3642
Fax: (217) 782-1396
E-mail: publicaccess@atg.state.il.us
   B.   The Illinois PAC will respond to such appeal and issue a binding
opinion within sixty (60) days after the request for review (appeal), unless a
request for extension of twenty one (21) business days is given by the PAC. The
PAC's binding opinion must make findings of fact and conclusions of law and
shall be issued to the requester and public body. The PAC's binding opinion is
subject to administrative review by either party. (2012 Code)
1-11-12: BINDING OPINION:
A binding opinion issued by the attorney general shall be considered final for
purpose of administrative review. (2012 Code)
CHAPTER 12
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
SECTION:
1-12-1: Plan Adopted
1-12-1: PLAN ADOPTED:
The "Village Of Bloomingdale 2010 Comprehensive Land Use Plan", which is
attached to ordinance 2010-37 as exhibit A, and any subsequent updates or
amendments, are hereby adopted by reference. Copies of the most current
comprehensive plan land use plan are on file in the office of the village clerk
for public use and inspection. (2012 Code)
CHAPTER 13
ANNEXATIONS
SECTION:
1-13-1: General Provisions
1-13-2: Contiguous Territory
1-13-3: Territory Dedicated For Streets Or Highways
1-13-4: Surrounded Or Nearly Surrounded Territory
1-13-5: Contesting Annexations
1-13-6: Zoning Of Annexed Territory
1-13-7: Annexation Agreements
1-13-8: Annexation Fee
1-13-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Any territory which is not within the corporate limits of the village
but which is contiguous thereto may be annexed to the village as provided in
this chapter.
   B.   When any land proposed to be annexed is part of any fire protection
district or any public library district, the trustees of each district shall be
notified in writing, by certified or registered mail or by personal service,
before any action is taken for annexation. Such notice shall be served ten (10)
days in advance. An affidavit that there has been service of notice as provided
by this section must be filed with the village clerk. No annexation of such
land is effective as to territory within any fire protection district or public
library district unless service is had and the affidavit filed as provided in
this section.
   C.   The new boundary shall extend to the far side of any adjacent highway
and shall include all of every highway within the area annexed. When any land
proposed to be annexed includes any highway under the jurisdiction of any
township, the township commissioner of highways and the board of town auditors
shall be notified in writing, by certified or registered mail, before any
action is taken for annexation. These highways shall be considered in the legal
description set forth in the petition for annexation.
   D.   No annexation, disconnection and annexation, or disconnection of
territory having electors residing therein made: 1) prior to any primary
election to be held within the village and after the time for filing petitions
as a candidate for nomination to any office to be chosen at such primary
election; or 2) within sixty (60) days prior to any general election to be held
within the village, shall be effective until the day after the date of such
primary or general election, as the case may be. (Ord. 78-15, 5-8-1978)
1-13-2: CONTIGUOUS TERRITORY:
Any territory which is not within the corporate limits of the village, but
which is contiguous thereto, and which territory has no electors residing
therein, or any such territory with electors residing therein, may be annexed
to the village in the following manner: A written petition, signed by the
owners of record of all land within such territory, and by at least fifty one
percent (51%) of the electors residing therein, shall be filed with the village
clerk. The petition shall request annexation and shall state that no electors
reside therein or that at least fifty one percent (51%) of such electors
residing therein join in the petition, whichever shall be the case, and shall
be under oath. The corporate authorities of the village shall then consider the
question of the annexation of the described territory. A majority vote of the
corporate authorities then holding office is required to annex. The vote shall
be by "yeas" and "nays" entered on the legislative records. A copy of the
ordinance annexing the territory, together with an accurate map of the annexed
territory, shall be recorded with the recorder of deeds and filed with the
county clerk. (Ord. 78-15, 5-8-1978; amd. 2012 Code)
1-13-3: TERRITORY DEDICATED FOR STREETS OR HIGHWAYS:
The corporate authorities may annex any territory contiguous thereto even
though the annexed territory is dedicated or used for street or highway
purposes under the jurisdiction of the department of transportation of the
state of Illinois, or a county or township highway department, if no part of
the annexed territory is within any other municipality. After the passage of
the ordinance of annexation, a copy of the ordinance, with an accurate map of
the territory annexed, certified as correct by the village clerk, shall be
filed with the county recorder of deeds. (Ord. 78-15, 5-8-1978; amd. 2012 Code)
1-13-4: SURROUNDED OR NEARLY SURROUNDED TERRITORY:
   A.   Upon a written petition which is signed by a majority of the owners of
record of land in any contiguous unincorporated territory wholly bounded by two
(2) or more municipalities, and after the notice required by this section has
been given, the specified territory may be annexed by the village by the
passage of an ordinance providing therefor. The corporate authorities shall
cause notice of the filing of such petition to be published once in a newspaper
of general circulation within the territory to be annexed not less than ten
(10) days before the passage of the annexation ordinance. The ordinance shall
describe the territory annexed, which may not exceed one-third (1/3) the area
of the village before the annexation. A copy of the annexing ordinance and an
accurate map of the annexed territory shall be recorded by the county recorder
of deeds.
   B.   Whenever any unincorporated territory containing sixty (60) acres or
less is wholly bounded by: 1) the village of Bloomingdale; 2) the village of
Bloomingdale and a river or lake; 3) the village of Bloomingdale and property
owned by the state of Illinois, except a highway right of way owned in fee by
the state; or 4) the village of Bloomingdale and a forest preserve district,
that territory may be annexed by the village by the passage of an ordinance to
that effect after notice is given as provided in this subsection. The corporate
authorities shall cause notice, stating that annexation of the territory
described in the notice is contemplated under this chapter, to be published
once in a newspaper of general circulation within the territory to be annexed,
not less than ten (10) days before the passage of the annexation ordinance. The
ordinance shall describe the territory annexed and a copy thereof, together
with an accurate map of the annexed territory, shall be recorded in the office
of the county recorder of deeds. (Ord. 78-15, 5-8-1978; amd. 2012 Code)
1-13-5: CONTESTING ANNEXATIONS:
No person, firm or corporation, public or private, nor any association of
persons shall commence an action contesting, either directly or indirectly, the
annexation of any territory to the village unless initiated within one year
after the date such annexation becomes final. (Ord. 78-15, 5-8-1978)
1-13-6: ZONING OF ANNEXED TERRITORY:
When territory is annexed to the village, the territory automatically is
classified to the highest restrictive zoning classification under the village
zoning ordinance 1 . (Ord. 78-15, 5-8-1978; amd. 2012 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  11-6-4 of this code, annexed territory zoned ER-1 estate residence district.
1-13-7: ANNEXATION AGREEMENTS:
   A.   Authority To Enter Into Agreements: The corporate authorities may enter
into an agreement with one or more of the owners of record of land in any
territory which may be annexed to the village, such agreement to be valid and
binding for a period of not to exceed ten (10) years from the date of execution
thereof.
   B.   Contents And Scope:
      1.   Any such agreement may provide for the following as it relates to
the land which is the subject of the agreement:
         a.   The annexation of such territory to the village.
         b.   The continuation in effect, or amendment, or continuation in
effect as amended, of any ordinance relating to subdivision controls, zoning,
official plan, and building, housing and related restrictions; provided,
however, that any public hearing required by law to be held before the adoption
of any ordinance amendment provided in such agreement shall be held prior to
the execution of the agreement, and all ordinance amendments provided in such
agreement shall be enacted according to law.
         c.   A limitation upon increases in permit fees required by the
village.
         d.   Contributions of either land or monies, or both, to the village
and to other municipal corporations having jurisdiction over all or part of
such land.
         e.   The granting of utility franchises for such land.
         f.   Any other matter not inconsistent with the provisions of this
section, nor forbidden by law.
      2.   Any action taken by the corporate authorities during the period such
agreement is in effect, which, if it applied to the land which is the subject
of the agreement, would be a breach of such agreement, shall not apply to such
land without an amendment of such agreement. (Ord. 78-15, 5-8-1978)
   C.   Procedure:
      1.   The corporate authorities shall fix a time for and hold a public
hearing upon the proposed annexation agreement or amendment, and shall give
notice of the proposed agreement or amendment not more than thirty (30) nor
less than fifteen (15) days before the date fixed for the hearing. This notice
shall be published at least once in one or more newspapers published in the
village, or if no newspaper is published therein, then in one or more
newspapers with a general circulation within the village. (Ord. 78-15, 5-8-
1978; amd. 2012 Code)
      2.   After such hearing, the agreement or amendment may be modified
before execution thereof. The annexation agreement or amendment shall be
executed by the president and attested by the village clerk only after such
hearing and upon the adoption of a resolution or ordinance directing such
execution, which resolution or ordinance must be passed by a vote of two-thirds
(2/3) of the corporate authorities then holding office.
   D.   Effect And Enforcement: Any annexation agreement executed pursuant to
this section shall be binding upon the successor owners of record of the land
which is the subject of the agreement. (Ord. 78-15, 5-8-1978)
1-13-8: ANNEXATION FEE:
   A.   Fee Established: An annexation fee is hereby assessed to all territory
hereafter annexed to the village, said fee to be computed at the rate of five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each dwelling unit authorized under the zoning
classification provided in title 11 of this code.
   B.   Library Board Allocation: The annexation fee specified above shall
include the sum of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for each dwelling, which
sum shall be disbursed upon receipt by the village finance director-treasurer
for use by and with the approval of the Bloomingdale public library board.
(Ord. 93-25, 6-14-1993; amd. 2012 Code)
   C.   Due Date: The annexation fee provided herein shall be due and payable
at the time a building permit is issued for each dwelling contemplated in such
annexation, unless a date of payment is otherwise provided by an annexation
agreement.
   D.   Exemption From Fee: Except as may be provided by an annexation
agreement, the annexation fee hereby established shall not apply whenever such
territory is annexed pursuant to authority of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
7-1-13. (Ord. 93-25, 6-14-1993)
CHAPTER 14
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING AND ADJUDICATION
SECTION:
1-14-1: Purpose
1-14-2: Office Established
1-14-3: Authority
1-14-4: Office Staff
1-14-5: Scope Of Authority
1-14-6: Administrative Hearings
1-14-7: Procedure
1-14-8: Representation At Hearings
1-14-9: Default
1-14-10: Fines; Compliance Bond
1-14-11: Enforcement Of Administrative Hearing Officer's Order
1-14-12: Penalties For Unpaid Parking Violations; Immobilization
1-14-13: Election Of Remedies
1-14-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The stated purpose of this chapter is to provide for fair and efficient
enforcement of village ordinances as may be allowed by law and directed by
ordinance through administrative adjudication of violations of said ordinances
thereby reinforcing voluntary compliance and expediting correction and
prosecution of violations of said ordinances.
   B.   The establishment of an administrative hearing and adjudication system
under this chapter does not preclude or prohibit the village from using any
other legal system or other methods correcting or enforcing violations of its
ordinances. (Ord. 2020-23, 9-28-2020)
1-14-2: OFFICE ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby created an office within the village, the office of
administrative hearings ("office"), supervised by the village administrator,
but receiving legal guidance and instruction from the village attorney, to
oversee, manage, direct and operate a system of administrative adjudication of
charges of code violations for the Village of Bloomingdale. The system will
authorize an administrative hearing officer to conduct adjudicatory hearings of
cases instituted by village departments. Hearing officers authorized under this
section shall be officers within the meaning of this code and shall be
appointed by the village president, with advice and consent of the board of
trustees for a one-year term beginning May 1 and until his successor is
appointed and qualified. (Ord. 2020-23, 9-28-2020)
1-14-3: AUTHORITY:
The Village of Bloomingdale hereby adopts ILCS Ch. 65, Act 5, §§ 1-2.1-1 et
seq. in its current form and as it may be amended from time to time for
adjudication of municipal code violations to the extent permitted by the
Illinois Constitution. As used in this chapter, a SYSTEM OF ADMINISTRATIVE
ADJUDICATION means the adjudication of any violation of any village municipal
ordinances, except for:
   A.   Proceedings not within the statutory or the home rule authority of
municipalities (ILCS Ch. 625, Act 5, §§ 1-100 et seq.); and
   B.   Any offense under the Illinois Vehicle Code or a similar offense that
is a traffic regulation governing the movement of vehicles and except for any
reportable offense under Section 6-204 of the Illinois Vehicle Code (ILCS Ch.
625, Act 5, § 6-204). (Ord. 2020-23, 9-28-2020)
1-14-4: OFFICE STAFF:
   A.   The office shall be directed by an administrative hearings supervisor
(the "supervisor"), who shall be the village administrator, or his/her
designee. The supervisor's function is to expedite the prosecution and/or
correction of code violations subject to the jurisdiction of the administrative
adjudication system, and as further identified in this section. The supervisor
is authorized to manage the administrative adjudication process in the manner
provided for in this chapter.
   B.   The office shall operate pursuant to law and authority of this chapter,
under the day to day supervision of the Supervisor. The village attorney shall
provide legal advice, assistance, counsel as may from time to time be required
or appropriate. The village administrator may assign or affix duties and
responsibilities, and may also appoint other persons to assist, as needed to
carry out the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   The office shall consist of those officers, employees and agents of the
village as may from time to time be needed to carry out the office's purposes.
Office personnel may be provided by any village administrative element, but
will most routinely and typically involve representative(s) of or from the
village attorney, police department, building and zoning department, and/or
public works department, with administrative assistance from those departments
or the village clerk as may from time to time be required.
   D.   The supervisor shall have the following powers and duties:
      1.   Operating and managing administrative adjudication of village
ordinance violations as may be permitted by law and directed by ordinance;
      2.   Adopt, distribute and process all notices as may be required or may
reasonably be required to carry out the purposes of this chapter;
      3.   Implement, operate and maintain an adequate and appropriate
automated information management system enabling the monitoring and recording
of ordinance violation notice information, administrative adjudication hearing
information including determination orders, penalty assessments and payments
(if any) including vehicle immobilization or impoundment (if applicable) or
pending suspension of driver's licenses, and results from administrative
adjudication hearings (including, but not limited to, respondent appearance or
failure to appear, respondent pleas, hearing officer determinations, orders,
sanctions or other fines or penalties imposed and costs, if any);
      4.   From time to time determining, and publicly posting at village hall,
the costs incurred by the village for administrative adjudication pursuant to
this chapter which may be imposed upon a person charged with a violation of one
or more provisions of this code (the "respondent") upon a finding of liability
by an administrative hearing officer at the conclusion of the hearing on the
matter pursuant to this chapter. No cost calculated by the supervisor pursuant
to this subsection shall be applied until fourteen (14) days after the date on
which such cost has been publicly posted; and
      5.   With the advice of the village attorney and administrative hearing
officer(s), prepare and procure documents and forms as may from time to time be
required in furtherance of administrative hearings pursuant to this chapter.
   E.   The village Administrator, or his or her designee, shall have the
following powers and duties:
      1.   Collect monies received as fines, penalties and/or costs assessed
after a final determination of liability by a hearing officer, and issuing
receipts therefor;
      2.   Certify copies of final determinations of violations adjudicated
pursuant to this chapter along with any reports or documents related thereto
and admitted as part of the record (if any);
      3.   Certify reports to the Illinois secretary of state concerning the
initiation of the suspension of driving privileges pursuant to law and this
chapter;
      4.   Collect unpaid fines, penalties and/or costs through private
collection agencies and/or, in cooperation with the village attorney, pursuit
of all other post judgment remedies available at law or equity.
   F.   An administrative hearing officer must be an attorney licensed to
practice law in the state of Illinois for at least three (3) years, and be in
good standing with the attorney registration and disciplinary commission of the
supreme court of Illinois.
      1.   Prior to conducting administrative adjudication proceedings under
this chapter, the administrative hearing officer shall have successfully
completed a formal training program as provided by law, that includes the
following:
         a.   Instruction on the rules of procedure of the administrative
hearings over which the administrative hearing officers shall preside;
         b.   Orientation to each subject area of the code violations they will
adjudicate;
         c.   Observation of administrative hearings; and
         d.   Participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on evidence
and issuing final orders. (Ord. 2020-23, 9-28-2020; amd. Ord. 2021-11, 3-8-
2021)
1-14-5: SCOPE OF AUTHORITY:
Administrative hearing officers shall preside over adjudicatory administrative
hearings. The authority of an administrative hearing officer shall encompass
all acts necessary to conduct fair and impartial adjudicatory hearings,
including, but not limited to:
   A.   Hearing testimony and accepting evidence that is relevant to the
existence of the code violation.
   B.   Administering oaths and affirmations to witnesses.
   C.   At the request of any party or on the administrative hearing officer's
own motion, issuing subpoenas for the attendance of relevant witnesses and/or
the production of relevant books, records, or other information. Subpoena
issuance shall be at the discretion of the administrative hearing officer,
where it is determined that the requested witness or document is material to
the defense of the allegations and does not constitute a needless presentation
and that the elements of the defense sought to be proved could not otherwise be
established without the production of the requested evidence.
   D.   Asking all questions of witness(es) or party(ies) offering evidence in
any administrative hearing for clarification relevant and needed for the
hearing officer's determination.
   E.   Preserving the record of the hearing, including all exhibits and
evidence admitted into the record at the hearing.
   F.   Issuing a determination based upon a review of the notice of violation,
citation, other charging document (hereinafter, "charging document") and on the
evidence admitted, which determination shall be final for purposes of judicial
review under the Illinois administrative review act. The determination shall be
in writing, shall be signed by the administrative hearing officer, shall be
designated as findings, decision, and order, and shall include the fine,
penalty or action with which the respondent must comply.
   G.   Upon finding a respondent liable for violating one or more charged code
provisions:
      1.   Imposing penalties as provided by the governing penalty provision,
except, however, that in no event shall an administrative hearing officer have
authority to:
         a.   Impose a penalty of incarceration, or
         b.   Impose a fine in excess of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00),
excluding allowable costs.
      When applicable, each day a code provision is found to have been violated
by the respondent shall constitute a separate offense, and each separate
offense subjects the respondent to the penalty provided by the governing
penalty provision.
      2.   Imposing, in addition to fines, administrative and/or enforcement
costs and, when applicable, imposing costs incurred by the village for
effecting compliance with code provision(s) for which a respondent has been
found liable.
      3.   Ordering, notwithstanding fines imposed or costs assessed, the
respondent to comply with code provision(s) found to have been violated, and,
if appropriate, ordering the respondent to post a compliance bond as provided
by subsection
1-14-10B. of this chapter.
      4.   Ordering, regardless of fines imposed or costs assessed, the
respondent to perform a term of community service.
   H.   Adhering to the policies, procedures, and legislation set forth in this
code, except where discretion is specifically vested in the administrative
hearing officer. However, an administrative hearing officer is authorized to
waive the fine and/or costs that otherwise would be imposed upon finding a
respondent liable for one or more code violations when the administrative
hearing officer specifically finds that the violation(s) occurred under such
circumstances that a reasonable person would believe to constitute an excuse,
explanation or justification for the violation(s).
   I.   Asking all questions of the parties and witnesses, if necessary, to
ensure the clarity and completeness of the testimony and the record. A party or
witness desiring clarification of a point in the hearing shall direct the
matter to the administrative hearing officer, who retains sole discretion as to
whether and to what extent to pursue the point to be clarified.
   J.   Regulating the course of the hearing in accordance with this chapter,
the rules adopted by the administrative hearings supervisor for the conduct of
administrative hearings, and other applicable law.
   K   Hearings on appeals from the orders of the administrative hearings
supervisor, or his designee. (Ord. 2020-23, 9-28-2020)
1-14-6: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS:
   A.   All administrative hearings conducted by an administrative hearing
officer are open to the public and shall be presided over by a duly appointed
administrative hearing officer who is charged with providing the parties a full
and fair opportunity to be heard.
   B.   The village shall not be represented by an employee or other
representative of the office of administrative hearings. However, documentary
evidence, prepared by another department of the village and submitted to the
administrative hearing officer, may be presented at the hearing by the village
attorney or his or her designee.
   C.   All administrative hearings shall be conducted on the date set for
hearing. Hearings will be held on Wednesdays, as determined by the Village
Administrator. In rare instances and for good cause shown, a continuance may be
granted at the discretion of the administrative hearing officer. The purpose of
administrative hearings is to provide a prompt resolution of alleged code
violations. Accordingly, the request for, and the grant of, continuances shall
be curtailed to the extent fairness permits. Lack of preparation shall not be
grounds for a continuance. Continuances shall not be granted for more than two
(2) months or twice per case, unless good cause is shown.
   D.   The administrative hearing officer may issue subpoenas.
   E.   The formal and technical rules of evidence may be waived in the conduct
of the hearing. Evidence, including hearsay, may be admitted only if it is of a
type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of their
affairs.
   F.   The administrative hearing officer shall permit persons to contest the
merits of an alleged violation subject to the administrative adjudication
procedures of this chapter without attending a hearing. Any person, who wishes
to contest a vehicular violation, must file a notarized statement of facts
specifying grounds for contesting the violation notice, which must be filed
with the office of administrative hearings, postmarked within ten (10) days of
the issuance of the notice of violation. The request shall be deemed filed, if
postmarked by such due date. The submission of a notarized statement of facts
is a waiver of the person's right to a personal appearance and the
administrative hearing officer will make his/her decision based upon the
notarized statement of facts submitted by the person and the facts contained in
the notice of violation(s).
   G.   No violation may be established except upon proof by a preponderance of
the evidence. However, the original or a legible copy of the charging document,
issued in accordance with the applicable provisions of this code, shall be
prima facie evidence of the correctness of the facts specified in the document.
   H.   The administrative hearings supervisor shall determine the manner in
which the record shall be preserved. Such preservation may be made by tape
recording or other appropriate means, in accordance with the Illinois open
meetings act. Recording by any means by any member of the public is prohibited
unless expressly authorized by the administrative hearings supervisor. The
record of all hearings before an administrative hearing officer shall include a
copy of the findings, decision, and order of the administrative hearing
officer's final determination.
   I.   At the conclusion of a hearing, the administrative hearing officer
shall issue his/her final determination. If the administrative hearing officer
issues a final determination of liability, he or she may impose fines, assess
costs, and make orders, all as provided by subsection
1-14-5F. of this chapter, and as are consistent with the specific code
provision(s) found to have been violated.
   J.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the administrative hearing officer
shall inform the parties orally and in writing of his determination. Such
determination shall constitute a final determination for purposes of judicial
review and is subject to review under the Illinois administrative review act.
Based on the charging document and the evidence admitted, the administrative
hearing officer may issue the following determinations: liable, not liable, or
liable upon a plea of no contest. The administrative hearing officer also may
dismiss the case with or without prejudice or grant a properly made motion by
the village to voluntarily dismiss the case. (Ord. 2020-23, 9-28-2020; amd.
Ord. 2021-11, 3-8-2021)
1-14-7: PROCEDURE:
All matters to be adjudicated by the administrative hearing officer shall be
commenced against the party alleged to have violated one or more code
provisions by issuing and serving upon that party a charging document and shall
be conducted in accordance with the following procedures:
   A.   The charging document shall be issued by a village officer or employee
so authorized and served as provided for in subsection C. of this section.
   B.   
      1.   Any charging document issued pursuant to this section shall contain
the following information:
         a.   The name; village department; position; and identification
number, if applicable, of the person issuing the charging document;
         b.   The name and address of the person or entity being charged with
one or more code violations ("respondent");
         c.   The name and address of the person to whom the charging document
is given if that person is not the respondent;
         d.   The section(s) of this code alleged to have been violated;
         e.   The date, time, and place of the alleged violation(s);
         f.   A legally sufficient description of the activity or conduct
alleged to constitute a violation of each code section set forth in the
charging document or a legally sufficient description of the facts giving rise
to the allegations set forth in the charging document; and
         g.   The complainant's name if the complainant is not the issuing
village officer or employee.
      2.   The village officer or employee issuing the charging document shall
certify the correctness of the information required by subsection B.1. of this
section by signing his/her name to the charging document to be issued.
      3.   Compliance with subsections B.1. and B.2. of this section shall
establish a prima facie case.
      4.   A charging document issued pursuant to subsection B.1. of this
section also shall set forth:
         a.   The date, time and place of the adjudicatory hearing to be held
with respect to the violation(s) alleged in the charging document, and
         b.   The legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing will
be held.
   C.   
      1.   The hearing shall be scheduled with reasonable promptness, provided
that for hearings scheduled in all nonemergency situations, the respondent
shall have at least fifteen (15) days after service of the charging document to
prepare for a hearing, if requested by the respondent. For purposes of this
subsection, "nonemergency situation" means any situation that does not
reasonably constitute a threat to the public interest, safety or welfare.
      2.   The respondent named in a charging document shall be given notice of
the date of the adjudicatory hearing which may appear on the face of the notice
of violation, citation, or other charging document. Notice of the hearing date
may be given in any of the following ways:
         a.   By first class mail or by overnight or two (2) day commercial
delivery service at the respondent's last known address or if the respondent is
a business entity, at any address identified for its registered agent or at its
principal place of business; or
         b.   By personal service; or
         c.   By posting upon the property that is the site of the alleged
violation(s) when the respondent is the owner or person in control of the
property; or
         d.   By any other means permitted by law for service of civil summons.
      3.   If service is provided by first class mail or by overnight or two
(2) day commercial delivery service, the fifteen (15) day period shall begin to
run on the day that the notice is deposited in the mail or given to the
commercial delivery service, as applicable.
   D.   The original or a legible copy of the notice of violation, citation, or
other charging document shall be filed with the office of administrative
hearings as soon as practicable at the place and in the manner as the
administrative hearings supervisor directs. Upon receiving the original or
legible copy of the charging document, the administrative hearings supervisor
shall select a hearing date and give respondent notice of the date, time, and
place of the hearing in the manner set forth in subsection C. of this section,
unless the charging document sets forth the date, time, and location of the
hearing and was served on the respondent as provided in subsection C.2. of this
section.
   E.   Parties to an adjudicatory hearing may be represented by an attorney
(retained at their own expense) and present witnesses. The administrative
hearing officer shall direct questions to witnesses and evidence presented to
facilitate a determination of liability or nonliability; parties shall not
directly question opposing witnesses. Parties may request the administrative
hearing officer to issue subpoenas according to the authority granted in
subsection
1-14-5C. of this chapter. (Ord. 2020-23, 9-28-2020)
1-14-8: REPRESENTATION AT HEARINGS:
   A.   Village: The case for the village may be presented by an attorney
designated by the village attorney, but not by an employee or other
representative of the office of administrative hearings.
   B.   Respondent: The case for the respondent may be presented by the
respondent or by an attorney or agent of the respondent, retained at
respondent's sole expense. An attorney or agent appearing at an adjudicatory
hearing on behalf of a respondent shall present the administrative hearing
officer with a signed appearance form stating, on oath or affirmation, that he
or she has been authorized by the respondent to represent the respondent at the
hearing. (Ord. 2020-23, 9-28-2020; amd. Ord. 2021-11, 3-8-2021)
1-14-9: DEFAULT:
   A.   If at the time set for hearing, the respondent, or his/her attorney or
agent of record, fails to appear, the administrative hearing officer may enter
a default judgment of liability against the respondent and impose fines and
assess costs. A copy of the order of default shall be served in any manner
permitted by this chapter and applicable to the violation. The order shall
advise the respondent of the procedure for setting aside the default judgment
and shall also apprise the respondent of the availability of an appeal of the
default judgment to the circuit court of DuPage County. The default judgment
shall be mailed promptly to the respondent as provided by subsection
1-14-7C. of this chapter. The default judgment constitutes a final
determination for purposes of judicial review and is subject to review under
the Illinois administrative review act.
   B.   A respondent against whom a default judgment has been entered may file
a motion with the office of administrative hearings to set aside the default
judgment and request a new hearing. A motion to set aside a default judgment
may be filed at any time if the respondent alleges lack of subject matter or
personal jurisdiction. In all other cases, the motion must be filed within
twenty-one (21) days of entry of the default judgment. A motion to set aside a
default judgment shall set forth the reason(s) the respondent failed to appear
on the original hearing date. The administrative hearing officer shall hear and
rule on the motion. If the administrative hearing officer grants the motion, a
hearing will be held immediately on the alleged code violation(s) set forth in
the charging document unless the respondent requests another hearing date and
presents good cause for continuing the hearing.
   C.   If any default judgment is set aside pursuant to this section, the
administrative hearing officer shall have authority to enter an order
extinguishing any lien which has been recorded for any debt due and owing the
village as a result of the vacated default judgment. (Ord. 2020-23, 9-28-2020;
amd. Ord. 2021-11, 3-8-2021)
1-14-10: FINES; COMPLIANCE BOND:
   A.   All fines and other payments must be made within ten (10) calendar days
from the date of the final determination.
   B.   If the administrative hearing officer issues an order of compliance,
the administrative hearing officer may order the respondent to post either a
cash bond or other security bond to ensure respondent's timely compliance. Any
noncash security bond shall name the village as beneficiary and shall be in the
amount specified by the administrative hearing officer. Any bond issued as a
result of an administrative hearing officer's order is subject to review and
approval for sufficiency of the bond by the village administrator. If the
respondent fails to timely remedy the code violation(s) for which a bond has
been issued and the village undertakes remediation or otherwise expends funds
related to the code violation(s), the administrative hearing officer, after
giving the parties notice and opportunity to be heard, may issue an order
permitting the village to draw against the bond in an appropriate amount. The
administrative hearing officer shall order the bond amount, less the reasonable
costs incurred by the village, to be returned to the respondent upon proof of
compliance. Upon failure to achieve compliance, the administrative hearing
officer shall, upon written petition of the village, increase the assessed fine
by ten percent (10%) (initial fine amount, not compounding) for each day beyond
the original compliance date that compliance has not been achieved.
   C.   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the administrative hearings
supervisor from issuing citations which are payable to the village without a
hearing.
   D.   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the administrative hearing
officer, at his or her own discretion, from adjusting the fine for any person
found to have been in violation of any of the terms and provisions of this Code
to any amount as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2020-23, 9-28-2020)
1-14-11: ENFORCEMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING OFFICER'S ORDER:
   A.   Any fine and any administrative, enforcement, or compliance costs
imposed by an administrative hearing officer's order that remain unpaid after
the exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust, judicial review procedures,
unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, shall be a debt due and
owing the village and may be collected in accordance with applicable law.
   B.   After the expiration of the period for which judicial review may be
sought (35 days after issuance of the administrative hearing officer's final
order), unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, the determination
of liability of an administrative hearing officer may be enforced in the same
manner as a judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction. At such
time, the administrative hearings supervisor shall send a notice of final
determination of liability to respondent.
   C.   Any fine, penalty, and/or cost remaining unpaid after the notice of
final determination of liability is sent shall constitute a debt due and owing
the village. Failure of the respondent to pay such fine or penalty within
twelve (12) days of the notice may result in a lien against the respondent's
property (and foreclosure of such a lien) or such other remedies as may be
available by law, including the denial of the issuance or renewal of licenses
or permits from the village.
   D.   In any case in which a respondent fails to comply with an
administrative hearing officer's order to correct a code violation, any
expenses incurred by the village to enforce the administrative hearing
officer's order, including, but not limited to, attorney fees, court costs and
costs related to property demolition, enclosure, remediation or foreclosure,
shall be a debt due and owing the village. Prior to any expenses being fixed by
an administrative hearing officer pursuant to this subsection, the respondent
shall be provided with notice that directs the respondent to appear at a
hearing before an administrative hearing officer to determine whether the
respondent has failed to comply with the administrative hearing officer's
order. The notice shall set the place and the time for the hearing, which shall
not be less than seven (7) days from the date the notice is served. Notice may
be served on respondent by personal service, first class mail or by an
overnight or two (2) day commercial delivery service and the seven (7) day
period shall begin to run on the date that the notice was personally served,
deposited in the mail or placed with the overnight or commercial delivery
service.
   E.   Nothing in this section shall prevent the village from enforcing or
seeking to enforce any order of an administrative hearing officer in any manner
provided by law. (Ord. 2020-23, 9-28-2020)
1-14-12: PENALTIES FOR UNPAID PARKING VIOLATIONS; IMMOBILIZATION:
The village may mechanically immobilize (e.g., boot) a vehicle stopped or
standing within village limits for which the payment of any fine or penalty
remains due and owing on ten (10) or more vehicular standing or parking
regulation violation(s).
   1.   Authority to immobilize a vehicle pursuant to this section shall lie
solely with the village police department.
   2.   Village police officers shall confirm with police administration the
existence of ten (10) or more vehicular standing or parking regulation
violation(s) for which the payment of any fine or penalty remains due and owing
for the vehicle to be mechanically immobilized.
   3.   Upon confirmation, village police officers may mechanically immobilize
said vehicle.
   4.   Village police officers shall provide written notice with the
immobilized vehicle identifying: a) the police officer immobilizing the
vehicle, b) the reason for immobilization, c) the date and time of
immobilization, d) that mechanical immobilization may be removed by payment in
full to the village police department of any fine or penalty remaining due and
owing for the vehicle for all vehicular standing or parking regulation
violation(s).
   5.   The Director of Public Safety or chief of police, or his or her
designee, upon good cause shown by the owner of an immobilized vehicle, may,
but is not required to, direct the removal of the mechanical immobilization of
the vehicle. (Ord. 2020-23, 9-28-2020; amd. Ord. 2021-11, 3-8-2021)
1-14-13: ELECTION OF REMEDIES:
   A.   In no case may an administrative hearing officer conduct an
adjudicatory hearing for an alleged code violation where the remedy is a
punishment of imprisonment.
   B.   Nothing in this chapter, however, shall preclude the village from
petitioning a court of competent jurisdiction to adjudicate any ordinance
violation or an ordinance violation which provides the remedy of imprisonment,
or from petitioning a court of competent jurisdiction to impose the remedy of
imprisonment for failure to comply with an order of an administrative hearing
officer. (Ord. 2020-23, 9-28-2020)
TITLE 2
BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
CHAPTER 0
GENERAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
2-0-1: Electronic Attendance At Meetings
2-0-2: Policy Pertaining To Public Comment
2-0-1: ELECTRONIC ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS:
The Village of Bloomingdale hereby creates and adopts the following rules and
policies for electronic attendance at meetings:
   A.   Rules Statement: It is the decision of the Village that any member of
the Board of Trustees may attend any open or closed meeting of the Village
Board via electronic means (such as by video or audio conference) provided that
such attendance is in compliance with these rules and any applicable laws.
   B.   Prerequisites: A member of the Board of Trustees may attend a meeting
electronically if the member meets the following conditions:
      1.   The member shall notify the Village Clerk before the meeting, unless
advance notice is impractical, so that necessary communications equipment can
be arranged. Inability to make the necessary technical arrangements will result
in denial of a request for remote attendance.
      2.   The member must assert one of the following three (3) reasons why he
or she is unable to physically attend the meeting:
         a.   The member cannot attend because of personal illness or
disability,
         b.   The member cannot attend because of employment purposes or the
business of the Village, or
         c.   The member cannot attend because of a family or other emergency.
   C.   Authorization To Participate:
      1.   The Village Clerk, after receiving the electronic attendance
request, shall inform the Board of Trustees of the request for electronic
attendance.
      2.   After establishing that a quorum is physically present at a meeting
where a member of the Village Board desires to attend electronically, the
presiding officer shall state that: a) notice was received by the member of the
Village Board in accordance with these rules, and b) the member will be deemed
authorized to attend the meeting electronically unless a motion objecting to
the member's electronic attendance is made, seconded, and approved by a
majority of the members of the Village Board physically present at the meeting.
If no such motion is made and seconded, or if any such motion fails to achieve
the required vote by the members of the Village Board physically present at the
meeting, then the request by the member to attend the meeting electronically
shall be deemed approved by the Village Board and the presiding officer shall
declare the requesting member present. After such declaration by the presiding
officer, the question of a member's electronic attendance may not be
reconsidered.
   D.   Adequate Equipment Required: The member participating electronically
and other members of the Village Board must be able to communicate effectively,
and members of the audience must be able to hear all communications at the
meeting site. Before allowing electronic attendance at any meeting, the Village
Board shall provide equipment adequate to accomplish this objective at the
meeting site.
   E.   Minutes: Any member attending electronically shall be considered an off
site attendee and counted as present electronically for that meeting if the
member is allowed to attend. The meeting minutes shall also reflect and state
specifically whenever a member is present by electronic means.
   F.   Rights Of Remote Member: A member permitted to attend electronically
will be able to express his or her comments during the meeting and participate
in the same capacity as those members physically present, subject to all
general meeting guidelines and procedures previously adopted and adhered to.
The member attending electronically shall be heard, considered, and counted as
to any vote taken. Accordingly, the name of any member attending electronically
shall be called during any vote taken, and his or her vote counted and recorded
by the Village Clerk and placed in the minutes for the corresponding meeting. A
member attending electronically may leave a meeting and return as in the case
of any member, provided the member attending electronically shall announce his
or her leaving and returning.
   G.   Committees, Boards And Commissions: These rules shall apply to all
committees, boards and commissions established by the Village of Bloomingdale.
(Ord. 2014-51, 11-10-2014)
2-0-2: POLICY PERTAINING TO PUBLIC COMMENT:
   A.   Right To Speak: The Illinois Open Meetings Act, section 2.06(g)
provides that: Any person shall be permitted an opportunity to address public
officials under the rules established and recorded by the public body.
   B.   Public Comment:
      1.   Public Comment Period: Persons desiring to address the Board of
Trustees ("Board") will do so during the public comment period on the agenda of
the Board meeting. At least fifteen (15) minutes will be allowed at each
meeting for public comment(s). Public comments at other times during the
meeting will be permitted solely at the discretion of the Board.
      2.   Participation Procedure:
         a.   Persons wishing to speak may do so only after being recognized
for that purpose by the Village President.
         b.   Only one person may address the Board at a time.
         c.   No more than five (5) persons shall be permitted to speak at any
given meeting.
         d.   A signup sheet shall be prominently displayed on the speaker's
platform prior to the meeting.
         e.   The Board may, without creating precedent and in its sole
discretion, expand the numbers of those permitted to speak, at any given
meeting.
      3.   Public Participation:
         a.   Persons addressing the Board shall identify themselves for the
record, and for the Board and members of the public also attending the meeting.
         b.   Persons addressing the Board will offer all comments in a
courteous and professional manner, and refrain from use of inappropriate,
offensive or profane language.
         c.   Persons addressing the Board may comment on issues of public
interest relating to the operations of the Village: the Board will not respond
nor engage in debate or discussion relating to comments offered or made. The
public comment period is intended to afford members of the public with an
opportunity to express their views to the respective Board. The Board will
generally take comments made to it by speakers under advisement.
         d.   Residents of the Village addressing the Board will be limited to
a period of no more than three (3) minutes for comments, unless additional time
is granted by the Chairperson; after which they will return to their seat in an
orderly, quiet and non- disruptive manner.
         e.   Non-residents of the Village addressing the Board will be limited
to a period no more than one minute for comments, unless additional time is
granted by the Chairperson; after which they will return to their seat in an
orderly, quiet and non-disruptive manner.
         f.   The granting of additional time to one or more persons or on one
or more occasions does not entitle other persons at that meeting or any other
meetings to have additional time to address the Board.
         g.   Persons addressing the Board should refrain from offering
repetitive or duplicative comments which offer no new information or
perspective and which otherwise impede progress of the stated and published
purpose of the meeting. Such comments may be limited at the sole discretion of
the Board.
         h.   No person shall be permitted to address the same topic more than
once within a three (3) month period unless otherwise permitted by the Board.
   C.   Misconduct:
      1.   All persons addressing the Board must do so in a civil and
appropriate manner. Rude or abusive behavior will not be condoned. Comments
that are defamatory, disparaging, or otherwise constitute an unwarranted
invasion of privacy will not be allowed. Persons in violation of the foregoing
will be directed by the Chair of the meeting to leave the meeting.
      2.   Persons addressing the Board will refrain from comments, gestures,
or other verbal or non-verbal communications when not recognized to offer
public comment. The Chairperson is charged with enforcing orderly decorum at
meetings to enable effective and efficient consideration by the Board of the
stated and published purpose of the meeting; to that end the Chairperson will
request person(s) causing disruptive conduct to cease such conduct.
      3.   In the event public comment or behavior at the meeting becomes
disruptive to the Board's effective and efficient conduct of the meeting, the
Chairperson may recess the meeting until such time that conditions are
conducive to resume conduct of the business of the public body. If the
disturbance is particularly egregious, the Chairperson may recess the meeting
to reconvene at a designated time, date and place. The proposition by the
Chairperson to recess or to recess and reconvene at a later time, date and
place shall be approved by the Board. If taken, the decision to recess shall be
recorded in the minutes, along with the vote of the Board and a statement as to
the cause of the disruption necessitating the recess. (Ord. 2017-27, 6-26-2017)
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Created; Purpose
2-1-2: Membership; Appointment; Residency
2-1-3: Terms Of Office; Vacancies
2-1-4: Compensation; Expenses For Technical Advice And Services
2-1-5: Removal Of Members
2-1-6: Organization And Procedures
2-1-7: Advisory Members; Review Of And Assistance To Commission
2-1-8: Expenditures
2-1-9: Jurisdiction And Authority
2-1-1: CREATED; PURPOSE:
A planning and zoning commission is hereby created under authority of the
Illinois municipal code in order that adequate provisions be made for the
development of a planning program for the guidance, direction and control of
the growth and development or redevelopment of the village and contiguous
territory within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the corporate limits and not
included in any municipality. (Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
2-1-2: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; RESIDENCY:
The planning and zoning commission shall consist of seven (7) regular members
appointed by the village president, with the advice and consent of the board of
trustees. Such appointments should give due recognition to the particular
fitness of such appointees to carry out the distinctive purpose of the planning
and zoning commission. The village president shall designate one of the members
as chairperson of the commission. All members of the commission shall reside
within the area of jurisdiction of the planning and zoning commission. (Ord.
2014-48, 10-27-2014)
2-1-3: TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES:
   A.   Terms: All duly appointed and acting regular members of the planning
and zoning commission and holding office on the effective date hereof shall
serve until the expiration of the term for which they were appointed.
Thereafter, each regular member of the planning and zoning commission shall
serve for a term of three (3) years or until his successor is nominated and
approved.
   B.   Vacancies: Any vacancies shall be filled by the village president, with
the advice and consent of the board of trustees, as soon as possible for the
unexpired term of any member whose place has become vacant. In the event that
the office of chairperson is vacated for any reason, the village president
shall immediately appoint, at his option, either one of the remaining members
of the planning and zoning commission, or any member who is appointed to fill
such vacancy as the new chairperson. (Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014; Ord. 2024-44,
10-14-2024)
2-1-4: COMPENSATION; EXPENSES FOR TECHNICAL ADVICE AND SERVICES:
   A.   All regular members of the planning and zoning commission shall receive
the following compensation:
 
Effective Date  Compensation
                $150.00 per month in the form of a monthly stipend check, in
January 1, 2023 accordance with the Village's usual and customary payroll
                practices
 
   B.   The Chairperson of the planning and zoning commission shall receive the
following compensation:
 
Effective Date  Compensation
                $250.00 per month in the form of a monthly stipend check, in
January 1, 2023 accordance with the Village's usual and customary payroll
                practices
 
(Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014; amd. Ord. 2022-48, 11-14-2022)
2-1-5: REMOVAL OF MEMBERS:
The village president may remove any member of the planning and zoning
commission appointed by him on any formal charge whenever he is of the opinion
that the interest of the village demands removal, but he shall report the
reasons for the removal to the board of trustees at a meeting to be held not
less than five (5) nor more than ten (10) days after the removal. If the
village president fails or refuses to report to the board of trustees the
reasons for the removal, or if the board of trustees, by a two-thirds (2/3)
vote of all the members authorized by law to be elected, disapproves of the
removal, the planning and zoning commission member shall thereupon be restored
to the planning and zoning commission. The vote shall be by yeas and nays which
shall be entered in the clerk's minutes. (Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
2-1-6: ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   Adoption Of Rules, Procedures And Bylaws:
      1.   The members of the planning and zoning commission shall adopt a set
of rules, procedures and bylaws. These are to be adopted by a simple majority
vote at a regularly stated meeting. These rules, procedures and bylaws are to
be compiled in pamphlet form and made available to all commission members, the
corporate authorities and the public at large. The chairperson shall cause
notice to be published in a newspaper having general circulation within the
village advising the public that such rules, procedures and bylaws were adopted
and are available.
      2.   The members of the planning and zoning commission shall review the
rules, procedures and bylaws annually at the first regular meeting of the new
year. Changes can be made by simple majority vote and must follow subsection A1
of this section.
   B.   Secretary: The planning and zoning commission shall appoint a secretary
who is not a member of the planning and zoning commission and who shall have no
vote on matters coming before the planning and zoning commission.
   C.   Meetings:
      1.   All meetings and hearings of the planning and zoning commission
shall comply with the requirements of the open meetings act.
      2.   Meetings and hearings of the commission shall be scheduled for the
first and third Tuesdays of each month at six o'clock (6:00) P.M. In addition,
the commission may hold meetings and hearings at the call of the chairperson
and at such other times as the commission or the corporate authorities may
determine.
   D.   Records Kept: The planning and zoning commission shall keep a written
record of its proceedings which shall be open to public inspection during
regular business hours of the village hall.
   E.   Annual Report: The planning and zoning commission may submit an annual
written report to the president and board of trustees containing
recommendations on membership, the comprehensive plan and such other matters as
the president and board of trustees may require. (Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014;
amd. Ord. 2023-10, 2-27-2023)
2-1-7: ADVISORY MEMBERS; REVIEW OF AND ASSISTANCE TO COMMISSION:
   A.   The village president may appoint, subject to confirmation by the board
of trustees, advisory members to the planning and zoning commission, who shall
serve without compensation. The terms of office of advisory members shall be
fixed at the time of appointment. Advisory members may participate in all
deliberations of the planning and zoning commission but may not vote on any
matter coming before the planning and zoning commission and shall not be
counted in determining whether a quorum of the planning and zoning commission
is present.
   B.   The village planner, the village attorney and the building and zoning
official shall be accessible to the planning and zoning commission for the
express purpose of planning and zoning commission review. The planning and
zoning commission shall have reasonable authority to enlist the aid of other
village officials and department directors and request their attendance at
meetings of the planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
2-1-8: EXPENDITURES:
The chairperson of the planning and zoning commission shall be required to
provide an estimate of its expected expenditures sixty (60) days prior to the
beginning of each fiscal year. Budget requests shall be directed to the village
administrator. (Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
2-1-9: JURISDICTION AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   As established by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-12-5, the general
jurisdiction of the planning and zoning commission shall be as follows:
      1.   To prepare and recommend to the corporate authorities a
comprehensive plan for the present and future development or redevelopment of
the village 1 . Such plan may be adopted in whole or in separate geographical
or functional parts, each of which, when adopted, shall be the official
comprehensive plan, or part thereof, of the village. This plan may include
reasonable requirements with reference to streets, alleys, public grounds, and
other improvements hereinafter specified. The plan, as recommended by the
planning and zoning commission and as thereafter adopted in the village, may be
made applicable, by the terms thereof, to land situated within the corporate
limits of the village and contiguous territory not more than one and one-half
(11/2) miles beyond the corporate limits and not included in any municipality.
Such plan may be implemented by ordinances:
         a.   Establishing reasonable standards of design for subdivisions and
for resubdivisions of unimproved land and of areas subject to redevelopment in
respect to public improvements as herein defined;
         b.   Establishing reasonable requirements governing the location,
width, course, and surfacing of public streets and highways, alleys, ways for
public service facilities, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, streetlights, parks,
playgrounds, school grounds, size of lots to be used for residential purposes,
stormwater drainage, water supply and distribution, sanitary sewers, and sewage
collection and treatment; and
         c.   May designate land suitable for annexation to the village and the
recommended zoning classification for such land upon annexation 2 .
      2.   To recommend changes, from time to time, in the official
comprehensive plan.
      3.   To prepare and recommend to the corporate authorities, from time to
time, plans for specific improvements in pursuance of the official
comprehensive plan.
      4.   To give aid to the village officials charged with the direction of
projects for improvements embraced within the official plan, to further the
making of these projects, and generally, to promote the realization of the
official comprehensive plan.
      5.   To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted by this
chapter as may be conferred by the corporate authorities.
      6.   For purposes of implementing ordinances regarding developer
donations or impact fees, and specifically for expenditures thereof, "school
grounds" is defined as including land or site improvements, which include
school buildings or other infrastructure necessitated and specifically and
uniquely attributed to the development or subdivision in question. This applies
to all impact fees or developer donations paid into a school district or held
in a separate account or escrow fund by any school district or the village for
a school district.
   B.   In addition to those matters specified in subsection A of this section,
the planning and zoning commission is herewith delegated additional authority:
      1.   To hear, consider and recommend to the president and board of
trustees applications for amendments to the zoning ordinance.
      2.   To hear, consider and recommend to the president and board of
trustees applications for the granting of special use permits.
      3.   To hear, consider and recommend to the president and board of
trustees applications requesting the designation of planned unit developments.
      4.   To hear, consider and recommend to the president and board of
trustees applications for variations from the requirements of the zoning code,
subject to the standards set forth therein.
      5.   To hear, consider and recommend to the president and board of
trustees appeals for review of any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the building and zoning official charged with the
enforcement of the zoning ordinance of the village.
      6.   To review site plans for all development in zoning districts that
are subject to such review pursuant to section
11-4-3 of this code and make recommendations to the president and board of
trustees.
      7.   To recommend, subject to final consideration, evaluation and
approval by the president and board of trustees, methods of cooperation with
the municipal or regional planning commissions and other agencies or groups to
further the local planning for the area. (Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-12-1 of this code.
2 2. See section
  11-6-4 of this code.
CHAPTER 2
BOARD OF FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
2-2-1: Established; Appointment; Chair
2-2-2: Terms Of Office; Vacancies
2-2-3: Qualifications And Restrictions
2-2-4: Oath And Bond
2-2-5: Compensation
2-2-6: Removal Of Members
2-2-7: Officers And Advisors
2-2-8: Rules And Regulations
2-2-9: Appointments By Board
2-2-10: Annual Report And Budget
2-2-11: Rooms And Funds
2-2-1: ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT; CHAIR:
There is hereby established a Board of Fire and Police Commissioners which
shall consist of three (3) members, one of whom shall be Chair. The members of
the board shall be appointed by the Village President, with the consent of the
Board of Trustees; provided, however, that no appointment shall be made by the
President within thirty (30) days before the expiration of his term of office.
The board members shall elect a Chair to serve during the Municipal fiscal
year. (Ord. 73-18, 4-25-1973)
2-2-2: TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES:
In connection with the first appointments to the board, one member shall be
designated to serve until April 30, 1973; another member shall be designated to
serve until April 30, 1974; and the third member shall be designated to serve
until April 30, 1975. With the exception of the initial appointments to the
board, all reappointments or subsequent appointments shall be for a three (3)
year term. Vacancies on the board shall be filled in the manner provided
herein, and appointments to such vacancy shall be effective until the end of
the term applicable to the Commissioner being replaced. (Ord. 73-18, 4-25-1973)
2-2-3: QUALIFICATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Each member of the board shall be considered an officer of the Village.
   B.   No person holding an office under the United States, this State or any
political subdivision thereof, or the Village shall be a member of the Board of
Fire and Police Commissioners or the Secretary thereof. The acceptance of any
such office by a member of the board shall be treated as a resignation of his
office as a member of the board or the Secretary thereof.
   C.   No person shall be appointed a member of the board who is related,
either by blood or marriage up to the degree of first cousin, to any elected
official of the Village. (Ord. 73-11, 3-14-1973; amd. 2012 Code)
   D.   Appointments may be made without limitation regarding political party
status. All current members of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners are
hereby qualified to serve without regard to their relationship or political
party status and their appointments are affirmed as of the adoption of this
subsection. (Ord. 2017-25, 5-22-2017)
   E.   No person shall be appointed a member of the Board of Fire and Police
Commissioners who has been convicted of a felony under the laws of this State
or comparable laws of any other state of the United States. (Ord. 73-11, 3-14-
1973; amd. 2012 Code)
2-2-4: OATH AND BOND:
Each member shall take an oath (or affirmation) of office and shall give bond
in the amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). The cost of such bond will
be borne by the Village. (Ord. 73-11, 3-14-1973)
2-2-5: COMPENSATION:
No member of the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners shall be compensated
for his services. (Ord. 73-11, 3-14-1973; amd. 2012 Code)
2-2-6: REMOVAL OF MEMBERS:
A member shall not be subject to removal, except for cause, upon written
charges, and after an opportunity to be heard, within thirty (30) days, in his
own defense, before a regular meeting of the village board of trustees. A
majority vote of the corporate authorities shall be required to remove any such
member from office. (Ord. 73-11, 3-14-1973)
2-2-7: OFFICERS AND ADVISORS:
   A.   Secretary:
      1.   The board may employ a secretary at such compensation as may be
approved by the board of trustees in the appropriation ordinance or otherwise.
In the alternative, the board may designate one of its own members to act as
secretary, with or without compensation. If the secretary is to be compensated,
the amount thereof shall be fixed by the board of trustees.
      2.   The secretary shall keep the minutes of the board's proceedings
(copies of which shall be sent to the village board), shall be custodian of all
records pertaining to the business of the board, shall keep a record of all
examinations held, and shall perform such other duties as the board may
prescribe. (Ord. 73-11, 3-14-1973; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Attorney For Board: The village attorney or an attorney appointed by
the village president, with the consent of the board of trustees, shall serve
as counsel for the board. (Ord. 73-11, 3-14-1973)
2-2-8: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   The board shall make such rules and regulations as may be necessary to
provide for the appointment, promotion, suspension and removal of the members
of the police and fire departments and from time to time may make such changes
in the rules and regulations as may be required.
   B.   The rules and changes therein shall be printed immediately for
distribution. The board shall give notice: 1) of the places where the printed
rules may be obtained; and 2) of the date, not less than ten (10) days
subsequent to the time of publication, when the rules or changes therein shall
go into operation. This notice shall be published in one or more newspapers
with a general circulation in the village.
   C.   The rules of the board shall apply only to the conduct of examinations
for original appointments, for promotions, and to the conduct of hearings on
charges brought against a member of the police or fire department. No such
rules shall be made by the board to govern the operation of the police or fire
department, or the conduct of its members. (Ord. 73-11, 3-14-1973)
2-2-9: APPOINTMENTS BY BOARD:
   A.   The board shall appoint all officers and members of the fire department
and police department; except, that the chief of police and the chief of the
fire department shall be appointed by the village president, with the consent
of the board of trustees.
   B.   All appointments by the board to the police and fire departments, other
than that of the lowest rank, shall be from the rank next below that to which
the appointment is made.
   C.   The board shall conduct and hold examinations for original appointment
and promotion examinations for the police and fire departments as provided by
law.
   D.   The board shall issue certificates of appointment as provided by law.
(Ord. 73-11, 3-14-1973)
2-2-10: ANNUAL REPORT AND BUDGET:
   A.   Annual Report:
      1.   The board of fire and police commissioners shall, on or before the
first Monday of June each year, submit a written report to the village
president containing the following:
         a.   A statement of the board's activities for the twelve (12) month
period ending with the preceding May 31.
         b.   A copy of all rules and regulations of the board then in effect.
         c.   A statement concerning the practical effect of such rules and
regulations.
         d.   Such suggestions the board may have which would result in the
greater efficiency of the police department (and of the fire department if the
village then has one).
         e.   Such other information as the board deems advisable to include in
such report.
      2.   The report required to be submitted by subsection A1 of this section
shall be signed by the members of the board. Any member who wishes to comment
on any portion of the report separately from the other members may do so, and
his separate comments shall be attached to and be made a part of such report.
      3.   The village president shall advise the board of trustees, the
village administrator, if any, and the police chief of the contents of such
report as soon as practicable after receipt by the village president. (Ord. 73-
20, 6-13-1973)
   B.   Annual Budget Request: The board shall submit an annual budget request
to the village president and board of trustees prior to April 30 of each year.
(Ord. 73-11, 3-14-1973)
2-2-11: ROOMS AND FUNDS:
The board of trustees shall provide suitable rooms for the board of fire and
police commissioners, and shall allow reasonable use of public buildings for
holding examinations by the board, and shall further provide adequate funds in
the annual appropriation ordinance or other financing ordinance for the
operation of the board. (Ord. 73-11, 3-14-1973)
CHAPTER 3
FAMILY FEST AND SEPTEMBERFEST COMMISSIONS
SECTION:
2-3-1: Purposes
2-3-2: Membership; Appointment And Term
2-3-3: Revenues
2-3-4: Budgets
2-3-5: Expenditures
2-3-6: Reports
2-3-7: Hierarchy; Liaison
2-3-1: PURPOSES:
   A.   Family Fest Commission: The purpose of the family fest commission will
be to plan and manage an annual celebration in the village to be known as the
"Family Fest".
   B.   Septemberfest Commission: The purpose of the Septemberfest commission
will be to plan and manage an annual celebration in the village to be known as
the "Septemberfest". (Ord. 96-36, 8-26-1996, eff. 10-1-1996)
2-3-2: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT AND TERM:
Each commission shall be composed of a minimum of seven (7) members who are not
elected to village office. All members shall be appointed by the village
president, with the advice and consent of the village board, to serve for a
period of four (4) years. Each commission shall annually elect one member to
act as chairperson for the commission. (Ord. 96-36, 8-26-1996, eff. 10-1-1996)
2-3-3: REVENUES:
   A.   The family fest commission shall be responsible for raising and
collecting a portion of the funds necessary for the family fest. The
Septemberfest commission shall be responsible for raising and collecting a
portion of the funds necessary for the Septemberfest. All funds raised shall be
deposited with the village finance director-treasurer who shall properly and
separately account for same.
   B.   All funds received by the village finance director-treasurer and
appropriated by the village for use on the family fest and the Septemberfest
shall be subject to the authorization and control of the corporate authorities
and shall be allocated and disbursed in the same manner as other village funds.
(Ord. 96-36, 8-26-1996, eff. 10-1-1996; amd. 2012 Code)
2-3-4: BUDGETS:
The family fest and Septemberfest commissions shall submit for approval by the
corporate authorities, a detailed budget for their celebrations. Each budget
shall be submitted no less than one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the
proposed opening date of the fest and no less than ninety (90) days from the
end of the fiscal year (April 30). Each said budget shall include a breakdown
of anticipated expenditures and anticipated revenues in a form satisfactory to
the corporate authorities. (Ord. 96-36, 8-26-1996, eff. 10-1-1996)
2-3-5: EXPENDITURES:
Where expenditure of funds is provided within an approved budget pursuant to
section
2-3-4 of this chapter, the disbursement shall follow the same process as all
other village funds. If the expenditure of funds is not provided within an
approved budget pursuant to section
2-3-4 of this chapter, a written request shall be forwarded by the family fest
or Septemberfest chair to the village administrator, who shall refer same to
the corporate authorities. (Ord. 96-36, 8-26-1996, eff. 10-1-1996)
2-3-6: REPORTS:
   A.   Within ninety (90) days after the close of their fests, the family fest
and Septemberfest commissions shall each submit a complete and final financial
statement to the corporate authorities. This financial statement form shall be
furnished to each of the commissions by the village finance director-treasurer.
(Ord. 96-36, 8-26-1996, eff. 10-1-1996; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   In addition to the financial reporting required by this chapter, the
family fest and Septemberfest commissions shall report to the corporate
authorities as often and to the extent required by the corporate authorities.
(Ord. 96-36, 8-26-1996, eff. 10-1-1996)
2-3-7: HIERARCHY; LIAISON:
The family fest and Septemberfest commissions shall report to the police and
community relations committee of the village board or to such other committee
of the board of trustees as is approved by the corporate authorities from time
to time. The trustee liaison (a nonvoting member) to the family fest and
Septemberfest commissions shall be designated by the village president, with
approval of the village board. (Ord. 96-36, 8-26-1996, eff. 10-1-1996)
CHAPTER 4
BUSINESS PROMOTION COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-4-1: Created; Purpose
2-4-2: Membership; Appointment, Term And Vacancies; Liaison
2-4-3: Meetings
2-4-4: Expenditures
2-4-1: CREATED; PURPOSE:
There is hereby created a business promotion committee, hereinafter the
"committee". The purpose of the committee shall be to develop and to assist in
the implementation of programs and activities which will increase retail
activity and tourism in the village. The committee shall also coordinate and
communicate its activities with the Bloomingdale chamber of commerce as well as
other local and regional economic development agencies and organizations. (Ord.
2012-47, 11-26-2012)
2-4-2: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT, TERM AND VACANCIES; LIAISON:
   A.   The committee shall consist of five (5) village residents and/or
business representatives who shall be appointed by the village president, with
the advice and consent of the board of trustees. The term shall be two (2)
years, and vacancies shall be filled by appointment in the same manner.
   B.   The chairperson shall be appointed by the village president for a one
year term.
   C.   One village trustee, chosen by the village president and the board of
trustees working together, shall act as liaison with the committee and with the
Bloomingdale chamber of commerce. (Ord. 2012-47, 11-26-2012)
2-4-3: MEETINGS:
The committee shall meet, as necessary, at the village hall, or at another
location within the village, as long as the meeting is duly noticed according
to the requirements of the Illinois open meetings act 1 , and may be called by
the chairperson, or a majority of the quorum of the committee. (Ord. 2012-47,
11-26-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
2-4-4: EXPENDITURES:
The committee shall require the approval of the board of trustees through the
fiscal year budget process for all expenditures of funds. (Ord. 2012-47, 11-26-
2012)
CHAPTER 5
GOLF COURSE OPERATIONS COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-5-1: Created; Purpose
2-5-2: Membership; Appointment, Term And Vacancies; Liaison
2-5-3: Meetings
2-5-1: CREATED; PURPOSE:
There is hereby created a Golf Course Operations Committee, hereinafter the
"committee". The purpose of the committee shall be to support and provide
recommendations as required to the Village Board of Trustees concerning the
management of the Bloomingdale Golf Course. (Ord. 2015-35, 8-10-2015)
2-5-2: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT, TERM AND VACANCIES; LIAISON:
   A.   The committee shall consist of seven (7) members: golf course manager,
golf pro, concessionaire manager, grounds superintendent, Village Administrator
and two (2) Village residents who shall be appointed by the Village President
with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. The term for the Village
appointees shall be three (3) years and vacancies shall be filled by
appointment in the same manner. (Ord. 2018-39, 11-12-2018)
   B.   The Chairperson shall be appointed by the Village President for a one
year term.
   C.   Two (2) Village Trustees, chosen by the Village President and the Board
of Trustees shall serve as liaisons to the committee. (Ord. 2015-35, 8-10-2015)
2-5-3: MEETINGS:
The committee shall meet quarterly at the Bloomingdale Golf Course. The meeting
will be duly noticed according to the requirements of the Illinois Open
Meetings Act, and may be called by the Chairperson, or a majority of the quorum
of the committee. (Ord. 2015-35, 8-10-2015)
CHAPTER 6
COMMUNITY EVENTS COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-6-1: Created; Purpose
2-6-2: Membership; Appointment, Term And Vacancies; Liaison
2-6-3: Meetings
2-6-4: Expenditures
2-6-1: CREATED; PURPOSE:
There is hereby created a Community Events Committee, the purpose of which
shall be to provide input relating to the scheduling, planning, organizing, and
overseeing of community events that are open to the enjoyment of all Village
residents and the general public. (Ord. 2018-40, 11-26-2018)
2-6-2: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT, TERM AND VACANCIES; LIAISON:
   A.   The committee shall consist of eighteen (18) Village resident
volunteers one of which shall be appointed Chairperson by the Village President
with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees, the term shall be for
staggered three (3) year appointments and vacancies shall be filled by
appointment in the same manner.
   B.   The Village Administrator shall serve as the Village liaison.
   C.   Any number of Village Trustees, chosen by the Village President and the
Board of Trustees, may also be appointed to serve as liaisons to the committee
provided that the meeting is duly noticed according to the requirements of the
Illinois Open Meetings Act 1 . (Ord. 2018-40, 11-26-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/1, et seq.
2-6-3: MEETINGS:
The committee shall meet, as necessary, at the Village Hall, or at another
location within the Village. (Ord. 2018-40, 11-26-2018)
2-6-4: EXPENDITURES:
The committee shall require the approval of the Board of Trustees through the
fiscal year budget process for all expenditures of funds. (Ord. 2018-40, 11-26-
2018)
TITLE 3
FINANCE AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL FINANCE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Fiscal And Municipal Years
3-1-2: Deposit Of Village Funds
3-1-3: Returned Check Fee
3-1-1: FISCAL AND MUNICIPAL YEARS:
The fiscal and municipal years shall commence on May 1 in each year and shall
extend through April 30 of the following year. (Ord. 80-3, 1-22-1980)
3-1-2: DEPOSIT OF VILLAGE FUNDS:
   A.   Authorized Depository: Any bank having a physical presence in the
village, a public treasurer's investment pool created under section 17 of the
state treasurer's act, and a money market mutual fund registered under the
investment company act of 1940 and pursuant to 30 Illinois Compiled Statutes
235/5 is hereby designated as an authorized depository in which the funds of
the village may be deposited. (Ord. 2000-08, 2-28-2000)
   B.   Finance Director-Treasurer Not Responsible For Deposited Funds: The
finance director-treasurer is hereby discharged from responsibility for all
funds or monies deposited in the depositories while the funds and monies are so
deposited, and furthermore, as said deposits comply with the village investment
policy as approved May 11, 1999, and as same may be amended from time to time.
   C.   Maximum Amount Of Deposits: If such funds or monies are deposited in
the depositories designated herein, the amount of such deposits shall not
exceed seventy five percent (75%) of the capital stock and surplus of said
depositories. The finance director-treasurer shall be responsible for funds or
monies deposited in the depositories in excess of this limitation.
   D.   Enforcement By President And Finance Director-Treasurer: The village
president and finance director-treasurer shall be, and each of them is, hereby
authorized to endorse for deposit any and all checks, drafts, notes, bills of
exchange, and orders for the payment of money, either belonging to or coming
into the possession of the village; and further, that such endorsements for
deposit may be by the written or stamped endorsement of the village without
designation of the person making the endorsement.
   E.   Drawing On Village Funds: Upon compliance with the appropriate
provisions of title 1, chapter 8, article A of this code, the village finance
director-treasurer is hereby empowered to draw checks, drafts, and orders
against funds standing to the credit of the village within said depositories
for the general corporate use and for other authorized purposes of the village,
subject to the countersignature of the village president. Furthermore, the
finance director- treasurer is hereby empowered to engage in electronic
transfer of funds against funds standing to the credit of the village within
said depositories for the general corporate use and for other authorized
purposes of the village, subject to either the countersignature or other
written direction of the village president.
   F.   Finance Director-Treasurer's Sureties Advised: The village clerk is
hereby authorized and directed to advise the sureties of the finance director-
treasurer in writing of this designation. (Ord. 2000-08, 2-28-2000; amd. 2012
Code)
3-1-3: RETURNED CHECK FEE:
   A.   Established: The village shall impose upon all drawers a fee of twenty
dollars ($20.00) for all checks payable to the village which are returned
because the drawer did not have sufficient funds in his account, or because the
drawer did not have an account with the drawee, or because the drawer did not
have sufficient credit with the drawee.
   B.   Form Of Payment: The village shall reserve the right to demand payment
in full of this fee in the form of United States currency, cashier's check or
money order prior to accepting any other payment in consideration of any other
amounts owed by the drawer to the village.
   C.   Failure To Pay: Failure to pay this fee upon demand may result in the
village taking legal action against and/or suspending services to the drawer
who has written nonsufficient funds checks, checks on closed accounts or has
insufficient credit with the drawee. (Ord. 2000-38, 9-11-2000)
CHAPTER 2
PURCHASING, PROCUREMENT AND DISPOSAL PROCEDURES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Short Title
3-2-2: Purpose And Interpretation
3-2-3: Powers Of Village Administrator; Authority Of Village Board
3-2-4: General Procurement Procedures
3-2-5: Bid Security
3-2-6: Purchasing Procedures
3-2-7: Competitive Bidding, Advertising And Disposal Procedures And
Requirements
3-2-8: Multiyear Contracts
3-2-9: Exemptions From Certain Provisions
3-2-10: Change Orders For Public Works Contracts
3-2-11: Prevailing Wage For Public Works Contracts
3-2-12: Drug Free Workplace Contractor Certification
3-2-13: Purchasing And Accounts Payable Approval Matrix
3-2-1: SHORT TITLE:
There is hereby established certain rules and regulations of the village
hereinafter known as the PURCHASING, PROCUREMENT AND DISPOSAL PROCEDURES, as
provided in this chapter. (Ord. 2011-35, 9-12-2011; amd. Ord. 2013-37, 12-16-
2013)
3-2-2: PURPOSE AND INTERPRETATION:
   A.   It is the purpose of this chapter to assure that all services,
materials, equipment, labor, supplies, and personal property are purchased in a
manner to obtain the best possible price, and that the quality of services,
materials, equipment, labor, supplies and personal property is assured, giving
due consideration to the efficient operation of the village and the costs of
administration of any established procedures. (Ord. 2013-37, 12-16-2013)
   B.   It is also the purpose of this chapter to assure that all real and
personal property deemed to be no longer necessary, useful to, or for the best
interests of the village, be disposed of in the manner provided herein.
   C.   This chapter shall be construed and interpreted in a manner consistent
with applicable Illinois statutes as they relate to entering into contracts for
municipal projects including, without limitation, the purchase of goods and
services, and the disposal of real and personal property. (Ord. 2012-36, 7-23-
2012)
3-2-3: POWERS OF VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR; AUTHORITY OF VILLAGE BOARD:
   A.   Subject to the provisions of subsection B of this section, the village
administrator, or an authorized designee, may authorize and initiate all
purchases of commodities, supplies, materials, services and equipment, by
contract or otherwise, for use by and in all departments, committees, and
commissions of the village, except as otherwise provided. The village
administrator, or an authorized designee, may invite proposals and bids, and
may supervise and administer the awarding of term contracts for contractual
services which may be required by the village. (Ord. 2011-35, 9-12-2011; amd.
Ord. 2013-37, 12-16-2013)
   B.   No obligation shall be incurred that is not addressed by this section
without authority from the village board, except in the event of an emergency
as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 2011-35, 9-12-2011)
3-2-4: GENERAL PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   General Method Of Procurement: If not included in this chapter, the
office of the village administrator shall prescribe the requirements to be met
whenever competitive bidding is utilized or proposals are solicited or
requested. In any instance where the procurement is exempt by virtue of the
provisions of this chapter or Illinois statute, the procurement shall be
accomplished in a manner that will be most advantageous to the village, giving
due consideration to the cost of and quality of goods and services, the ability
of the vendor to perform, or other relevant factors. If not included in this
chapter, the office of the village administrator may also prescribe the
procedures by which competitive bids or proposals for any specific procurement
shall be received, the time limit for receiving such bids or proposals, and the
procedure by which bids or proposals shall be opened, accepted, and examined,
and by which recommendations for the acceptance or rejection of bids or
proposals shall be made to the village board.
   B.   Competitive Bidding: When competitive bidding is required or proposals
for goods or services other than professional services are solicited from
vendors, the bid or proposal shall be disqualified from consideration unless
the bid is submitted to the village in a sealed envelope in accordance with the
provisions of this section. The exterior of the envelope shall contain only the
following information: the name, address and responsible contact information as
necessary of the bidder or vendor making the proposal and the name of the
project, goods, services or equipment for which the bid is submitted. If the
village collects a bid or proposal that is not sealed, or for which the
required information is not clearly noted on the outside of the bid, such bid
or proposal may be immediately disqualified at the discretion of the village,
and returned unopened to the bidder or proposer, if feasible. If a bid or
proposal is properly received by the department that issued the bid
specification or the office of the village administrator, the individual
receiving the bid or proposal shall note the date and time that the bid was
received on the bid itself or on a bid acceptance form, and sign his or her
name. All bids or proposals shall be kept in a secure location in an office
designated by the village administrator. (Ord. 2011-35, 9-12-2011)
   C.   Holding And Returning Bids: Bids or proposals shall not be unsealed and
examined until the date and time specified for opening; provided, that prior to
the bid or proposal opening, the bidder or vendor making the proposal shall be
entitled to withdraw the bid or proposal. If such a request to withdraw is made
in writing to the department that issued the bid specification or to the office
of the village administrator, the village administrator, or an authorized
designee, shall direct that the bid or proposal be returned to the bidder or
vendor and notify the department director involved in the procurement of such
returned bid or proposal. Once bids or proposals are opened, they may not be
withdrawn except upon the approval of the village board. (Ord. 2011-35, 9-12-
2011; amd. Ord. 2013-37, 12-16-2013)
   D.   Waivers And Refusals: The village board, or the village administrator
when authorized by the village board, reserves the right to waive all
formalities and to refuse any and all proposals and does not obligate itself to
accept the lowest bid, or any bid, or to make any commitment when bids are
opened. (Ord. 2011-35, 9-12-2011)
3-2-5: BID SECURITY:
   A.   On all contracts and purchases, not including professional services,
wherein competitive bidding procedures are utilized, if bid security is
required of the bidders, a bid security, in a form and substance acceptable to
the village, of at least five percent (5%), but no more than ten percent (10%),
of the actual bid shall be required (hereinafter "bid security").
   B.   The bid security designated in subsection A of this section shall be in
the form of a bank cashier's check that is clearly marked payable to the
"Village of Bloomingdale"; provided, however, that if state law allows the
bidder or vendor to submit a bid bond or letter of credit for the bid security
in lieu of a bank cashier's check, then a bid bond with surety or letter of
credit may be furnished to the village by the bidder or vendor. The bid
security shall be returned to any unsuccessful bidder when a contract has been
awarded and signed or all bids have been rejected. (Ord. 2011-35, 9-12-2011;
amd. Ord. 2013-37, 12-16-2013)
3-2-6: PURCHASING PROCEDURES:
Competitive bidding with advertisement, as described in subsection 3-2-4B of
this chapter, shall not be required for purchases specified in this section,
however, the following special purchasing procedures shall be followed as
stated: (Ord. 2011-35, 9-12-2011)
   A.   Purchases of one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) or less may
be authorized at the appropriate department level, provided the purchase is
supported by a properly executed purchase approval form, designated as exhibit
A and attached to ordinance 2011-35, indicating the requisite sequential
approvals as prescribed by the village's purchasing and accounts payable
approval matrix, hereinafter referred to as section
3-2-13 of this chapter, as updated from time to time by the director of
finance-treasurer and approved by the village administrator, with documented
competitive pricing and vendor comparisons being undertaken on a periodic
basis.
   B.   Purchases greater than one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00)
but less than or equal to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), but not including
professional services, may be authorized at the appropriate department level,
provided the purchase is supported by a properly executed purchase approval
form indicating the requisite sequential approvals as prescribed by section
3-2-13 of this chapter, as updated from time to time by the Director of
Finance-Treasurer and approved by the Village Administrator, with documented
competitive pricing and vendor comparisons being undertaken on a frequent
basis.
   C.   Purchases greater than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), but less than
or equal to ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), but not including professional
services, may be authorized at the appropriate department level, provided the
purchase is supported by a properly executed purchase approval form indicating
the requisite sequential approvals as prescribed by section
3-2-13 of this chapter, as updated from time to time by the Director of
Finance-Treasurer and approved by the Village Administrator, and with
documented competitive pricing and vendor comparisons being required.
   D.   Purchases greater than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), but less than
or equal to twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00), but not including
professional services, may be authorized at the appropriate department level,
provided the purchase is supported by a properly executed purchase approval
form indicating the requisite sequential approvals as prescribed by section
3-2-13 of this chapter, as updated from time to time by the Director of
Finance-Treasurer and approved by the Village Administrator, and shall be
submitted with a minimum of three (3) written quotes directly from the vendors.
(Ord. 2011-35, 9-12-2011; amd. 2012 Code)
   E.   Individual purchases for the bulk purchase of gasoline and/or diesel
fuel for use in Village vehicles may be authorized by the Director of Public
Works, with the approval of the Village Administrator, in any amount,
regardless of whether the total of such individual purchases exceeds twenty
thousand dollars ($20,000.00) during any one fiscal year, as long as the
purchase approval form is accompanied by written overnight quotes from regional
vendors as procured by the soliciting department and at least one of the
written quotes is obtained from an intergovernmental group of municipalities or
other local governments, or an agency of the Federal, State or County
government as more fully described in subsection 3-2-9A1c of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-37, 12-16-2013; amd. Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
   F.   In certain circumstances, purchases or contracts for the purchase of
certain commodities, supplies, or services may be authorized by the Village
Board without advertising for bids regardless of whether the total of such
individual purchases exceeds twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) during any
one fiscal year, pursuant to a "spot market" purchase approach. The process,
requirements and restrictions for such a spot market purchase approach shall be
developed by the Director of Public Works and approved by the Village
Administrator. (Ord. 2011-35, 9-12-2011; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-
2017)
   G.   No elected or appointed official, officer, committee member or employee
may circumvent the limitations of this chapter by means of "string purchasing"
or similar devices. For purposes of this chapter, "splitting or stringing
purchases" is the practice of issuing multiple purchases requisitions,
procurement card transactions, or requisitions for purchasing like items or
services with the wilful intent to circumvent Village purchasing procedures.
   H.   1. All purchase approval forms shall be submitted to the Finance
Department and shall contain the line item account, a description of the goods
or services, unit cost, quantity, total cost, the appropriate levels of
approval by signature, and such other information as the Finance Department may
require. At its discretion, the Finance Department may request to require a
properly executed purchase approval form for any request for payment.
      2.   No purchase approval form need be created and printed by the Finance
Department for other departments. (Ord. 2011-35, 9-12-2011)
      3.   All department directors are encouraged to use open purchase
approval forms when such use makes for a more efficient operation and assists
the Village in controlling costs, e.g., dealing with certain vendors with whom
the Village conducts a significant level of business during any given fiscal
year or over multiple fiscal years, subject to the approval requirements for
purchase approval forms as established in this section. (Ord. 2011-35, 9-12-
2011; amd. 2012 Code)
   I.   All Village departments are required to submit all vendor invoices
directly to the Finance Department for payment. Said invoices must contain any
and all information necessary to explain or describe the services or goods so
purchased. Additionally, the following shall be submitted to the Finance
Department prior to payment of any related invoice:
      1.   Receipts, receiving tickets, or other evidence of purchase, if
appropriate;
      2.   Copy of the bid, contract or other document, if requested by the
Finance Department;
      3.   Usual and customary documents for the transaction (lien waivers,
engineer's or architect's certificates, and the like), if appropriate; and
      4.   Bills of lading, shipping invoices, and freight bills, as
appropriate. (Ord. 2011-35, 9-12-2011)
3-2-7: COMPETITIVE BIDDING, ADVERTISING AND DISPOSAL PROCEDURES AND
REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Competitive Bidding: Except for purchases or contracts for professional
services and purchases authorized under subsections 3-2-6E and F of this
chapter, all purchases or contracts for materials, supplies, commodities,
labor, and services involving amounts in excess of twenty thousand dollars
($20,000.00), made by or on behalf of the village, shall be let by competitive
bidding, after advertisement, to the lowest responsive and responsible bidder.
(Ord. 2011-35, 9-12-2011)
   B.   Bids Publicly Opened: At the date, time, and place designated in the
bid notice, such sealed bids submitted shall be publicly opened and read by the
village administrator, or an authorized designee. The report concerning the bid
results shall be forwarded to the village board for review and action at the
soonest possible regular meeting of the village board. (Ord. 2011-35, 9-12-
2011; amd. Ord. 2013-37, 12-16-2013)
   C.   Sale Of Personal Property Over Twenty Thousand Dollars: The sale of all
village owned personal property valued over twenty thousand dollars
($20,000.00) shall be let by competitive bidding, after advertisement, to the
highest responsible bidder.
   D.   Sale Of Real Property: The sale of all real property made by or on
behalf of the village shall be governed by its home rule powers or the
provisions contained in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-76-1 et seq.,
whichever is more advantageous to village operations, as designated by the
village board at the time that a decision is made to initiate the sale of the
real property.
   E.   Disposal Of Personal Property Under Twenty Thousand Dollars: If in the
opinion of a simple majority of the village board then holding office, personal
property valued under twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) is deemed to be no
longer necessary or useful to, or in the best interest of the village to keep,
the village board may dispose of the surplus personal property in one of the
following manners:
      1.   Adopting an ordinance authorizing the sale of that surplus personal
property in such a manner as the village board may designate, with or without
advertising the sale; or (Ord. 2012-36, 7-23-2012)
      2.   Authorizing the village administrator or an authorized designee to
convert the surplus personal property into some other form that is useful to
the village by using the material contained in the surplus personal property;
or
      3.   Authorizing the village administrator or an authorized designee to
convey or turn in any specified article of personal property as partial payment
on a purchase of any similar equipment or article, however, no equipment or
article shall be turned in as part of the purchase price on any new purchase
except upon receipt of competitive bids, in such manner as may be prescribed by
the village administrator or an authorized designee, after notice to all
bidders that the article will be turned over as part of the purchase price.
   F.   Disposal Of Property Having No Market Value: The village administrator,
or an authorized designee, is authorized to dispose of personal property which
is reasonably deemed by the village administrator, with the concurrence of the
finance director/treasurer, to have no market value within or outside of
village operations, in any reasonable manner, without approval by the village
board. (Ord. 2012-36, 7-23-2012; amd. Ord. 2013-37, 12-16-2013)
   G.   Purchases Of Amounts Between Two Thousand Five Hundred Dollars And
Twenty Thousand Dollars: Except for purchases or contracts for professional
services, all purchases or contracts for goods and services involving amounts
of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) or more, but less than twenty
thousand dollars ($20,000.00), made by the village, shall be let in the open
market through a solicitation by mail, telephone, facsimile machine, or e-mail,
or otherwise to ensure the best interest of the public pursuant to section
3-2-6 of this chapter.
   H.   Bulk Purchase Of Gasoline: Except for purchases authorized under
subsection 3-2-6E of this chapter, all individual purchases or contracts for
the bulk purchase of gasoline and/or diesel fuel for use in village vehicles
involving amounts in excess of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), but less than
twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00), and made by or on behalf of the village,
shall be let in the open market, through a solicitation by mail, telephone,
facsimile machine, or e-mail, or otherwise, to ensure the best interest of the
public.
   I.   Financial Status; Proposed Subcontractors: As a condition precedent to
contract award, bidder's financial status and his proposed subcontractors will
be carefully considered. No bid shall receive consideration unless accompanied
by bid security as prescribed by section
3-2-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 2011-35, 9-12-2011; amd. Ord. 2012-36, 7-23-2012)
      1.   All bid security accompanying the bids, except those of the lowest,
second lowest and third lowest, will be returned within thirty (30) days after
bids are opened. The bid security of the lowest, second lowest and third lowest
will be retained until the awarded contract and any required performance,
labor, and material payment bonds have been properly executed. (Ord. 2011-35,
9-12-2011; amd. Ord. 2012-36, 7-23-2012; Ord. 2013-37, 12-16-2013)
      2.   If any bid is withdrawn after the closing time for receipt of bids,
or if the bidder fails or refuses to execute the contract and to furnish and
execute a performance, labor, and material payment bond, the bid security
accompanying the bid shall be retained by the village as liquidated damages and
not as a penalty. (Ord. 2011-35, 9-12-2011; amd. Ord. 2012-36, 7-23-2012)
      3.   Unless waived by the village administrator or an authorized
designee, and due to the project bid being of nominal value and that only a
single payout for the project is anticipated, the accepted bidder to whom award
has been made for the entire project must be able to furnish and deliver to the
village administrator, or an authorized designee, prior to the village
execution of the contract, a satisfactory performance, labor and materials bond
in an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the contract sum for the
entire project. (Ord. 2011-35, 9-12-2011; amd. Ord. 2012-36, 7-23-2012; Ord.
2013-37, 12-16-2013)
3-2-8: MULTIYEAR CONTRACTS:
Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter to the contrary, and pursuant to
the exercising of the village home rule powers, the village board may enter
into public works contracts for a term exceeding one year in order to promote
efficient operations and to protect the general health, safety and welfare of
the village. In such case, the village board shall include in the annual
appropriation ordinance for each fiscal year an appropriation of a sum of money
sufficient to pay the amount which, by the terms of the contract, is to become
due and payable during the current fiscal year. (Ord. 2011-35, 9-12-2011; amd.
Ord. 2013-37, 12-16-2013)
3-2-9: EXEMPTIONS FROM CERTAIN PROVISIONS:
   A.   Bidding Requirements:
      1.   The following purchases are exempt from the requirements of open and
competitive bidding set forth in this chapter:
         a.   Purchase contracts for professional services which by their
nature are not adaptable to award by competitive bidding. Such contracts shall
include, but not be limited to, contracts for the services of individuals
possessing a high degree of professional skill, such as accountants, actuaries,
architects, auditors, building plan examiners and inspectors, chemists,
engineers, land surveyors, land planners, and legislative advocates. The
requirements to be met and the means and methods to be used in procuring such
professional services shall be determined by the village administrator with the
concurrence of the village president and board of trustees, and the
requirements of the local government professional services selection act 1 .
         b.   Purchase contracts for commodities, supplies, services, goods,
materials, parts, or equipment which are available only from a single source.
         c.   All purchases or contracts for goods and services for which the
price to be paid by the village has been established within one year preceding
the letting of the proposed contract by the village, through an open and
competitive bidding process administrated by an intergovernmental group of
municipalities or other local governments, or an agency of the federal, state
or county government. (Ord. 2011-35, 9-12-2011)
         d.   All purchases or contracts for goods or services for which the
requirement of advertising for competitive bids is waived by a two-thirds (2/3)
majority vote of the village trustees then holding office, except in such
instances where open and competitive bidding is required by Illinois statutes
that preempt the exercise of home rule authority. (Ord. 2011-35, 9-12-2011;
amd. Ord. 2013-37, 12-16-2013)
         e.   All purchases or contracts for the supply of electric power for
which the village has employed a licensed broker to compile competitively
priced proposals from a number of qualified suppliers 2 .
      2.   Nothing in this chapter will serve to prevent the village board from
authorizing procurement from any federal, state or local governmental unit or
agency thereof of any such materials, supplies, commodities, labor or equipment
as may be made available through the operation of any legislation heretofore or
hereinafter enacted even if the procurement does not conform with the
competitive bidding requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 2011-35, 9-12-2011)
   B.   Emergency Exemptions From Advertisement Requirements:
      1.   In the event of an emergency or disaster affecting the public health
or safety which is either: a) declared by the village board at a duly noticed
or special emergency meeting, which declaration shall require the affirmative
vote of a majority of the village trustees holding office, and shall set forth
the nature of the danger to the public health or safety; or b) proclaimed by
the county board chair in a "Proclamation Of Emergency For DuPage County,
Illinois"; or c) proclaimed by the village president, the acting village
president, village administrator or police chief in the event of a local
emergency or local disaster, and in the absence of a village board vote, then
contracts may be let by any of the aforementioned village officers to the
extent necessary to resolve such emergency without public advertisement or
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      2.   The village administrator, or an authorized designee, shall report
any emergency purchase provided for in this chapter to the village board at the
soonest possible regular, special, or emergency meeting following said
emergency purchase, giving the name of the vendor, date, description of the
items or services purchased and the amount of the purchase, and the nature of
the emergency, furnishing all the particulars of the circumstances which
endangered the public health, safety or general welfare. (Ord. 2011-35, 9-12-
2011; amd. Ord. 2013-37, 12-16-2013)
      3.   In addition, all emergency purchases and other financial
transactions will comply with the provisions contained within the functional
annexes - additional annexes - 2.3.11.1 (financial management) of the "Village
Of Bloomingdale's Emergency Operations Plan", dated April 22, 2013, as amended
from time to time. (Ord. 2013-37, 12-16-2013)
      4.   Officers and employees acting in accordance with a disaster declared
pursuant to subsection B1 of this section, by responding to, resolving, or
attempting to resolve an emergency or disaster, shall be relieved of all
personal responsibility for letting or approving a contract consistent with
village emergency procedures and shall not be held individually or personally
liable for the cost incurred by the village for the contract so let or
approved.
   C.   Employment Contracts: Employment or personal service contracts or
agreements shall not be subject to provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2011-35,
9-12-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 510/0.01 et seq.
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/8-9-4.
3-2-10: CHANGE ORDERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS CONTRACTS:
   A.   Monitoring Of Change Orders: It is the policy of the village to monitor
change orders as revisions to municipal contracts on a timely basis and report
such change orders so that any required budgetary revisions can be effected and
so that funding can be made available before invoices are processed.
   B.   Approval Of Change Orders For Public Works Contracts: Change orders for
public works contracts shall be approved only as follows: (Ord. 2011-35, 9-12-
2011)
      1.   The department director or consulting professional service provider
administrating the public works contract shall submit the change order,
together with an explanation of the reason for the change order, to the village
administrator for review. (Ord. 2011-35, 9-12-2011; amd. 2012 Code)
      2.   The village administrator may approve increases in public works
construction and engineering contracts due to change orders without village
board approval subject to the following conditions:
         a.   For contracts that were originally approved in the amount of one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) or less, no single change order may
exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) without village board approval, and
any single change order which exceeds ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) shall
be approved only after a written determination that:
            (1)   The circumstances said to necessitate the change were not
reasonably foreseeable at the time the contract was signed; or
            (2)   The change is germane to the original contract as signed; or
            (3)   The change order is in the best interests of the village and
is authorized by law. The written change order and the written determination
shall be preserved in the contract's file, which shall be open to the public
for inspection 1 .
         b.   For contracts that were originally approved in an amount
exceeding one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00), no single change order
may exceed twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) without village board approval,
but any single change order which exceeds ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) of
the original contract amount shall be approved only after a written
determination that:
            (1)   The circumstances said to necessitate the change were not
reasonably foreseeable at the time the contract was signed; or
            (2)   The change is germane to the original contract as signed; or
            (3)   The change order is in the best interest of the village and
is authorized by law. The written change order and the written determination
shall be preserved in the contract's file, which shall be open to the public
for inspection 2 .
      3.   Any series of change orders which authorizes an increase in the cost
of a public works construction or engineering contract that exceeds the
thresholds described in subsection B2 of this section of the awarded contract
amount shall be submitted by the village administrator to the village board for
approval.
      4.   According to the provisions of the Illinois public works contract
change order act 3 , any proposed change orders resulting in increases in a
public works construction contract which would exceed a total of fifty percent
(50%) of the original awarded contract price if approved, are not allowed. That
portion of the proposed change to the original awarded contract work must be
rebid according to the bidding procedures set forth in this chapter.
   C.   Report Change Orders To Public Works Construction And Engineering
Contracts Required: Regardless of the amount, the village administrator shall
report all approvals of change orders which increase the cost of public works
construction and engineering contracts to the village board, in writing, at the
earliest possible time, but in any event not later than the next regularly
scheduled village board meeting. (Ord. 2011-35, 9-12-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/33E-9.
2 1. 720 ILCS 5/33E-9.
3 2. 50 ILCS 525/1 et seq.
3-2-11: PREVAILING WAGE FOR PUBLIC WORKS CONTRACTS:
The Illinois prevailing wage act 1 , shall apply with respect to all public
works contracts awarded by the village; provided, that notwithstanding the
provisions of such act, the following shall apply:
   A.   The prevailing rate of wages to be paid by the Village on public works
projects, as mandated by the Act, shall, in each year, be that prevailing rate
of wages in the County as ascertained and determined by the Village, or by the
Illinois Department of Labor, for that year. If the determination is made by
the Illinois Department of Labor and accepted by the Village, said
determination shall be binding without further investigation or other action by
the Village.
   B.   The Village need not publish the prevailing wage rates as ascertained
and determined by the Illinois Department of Labor each year, nor request each
year that the Illinois Department of Labor ascertain the rates and provide a
listing of those rates to the Village.
   C.   Prevailing wage rate information, as received from time to time from
the Illinois Department of Labor, shall be kept on file in the Office of the
Village Clerk and shall be kept open for public inspection. (Ord. 2011-35, 9-
12-2011)
   D.   Each contractor or subcontractor employed by a public works contract
with the Village must make, and keep for not less than three (3) years from the
date of the last payment on the public works contract or subcontract, records
of all laborers, mechanics, and other workers employed by them on the project,
and must also submit a certified payroll to the Village for the immediately
preceding calendar month no later than the tenth day of the following month.
The content of the certified payroll report will be as specified by the Act.
   E.   The Village shall keep the payroll reports for not less than three (3)
years from the date of the last payment on the public works contract or
subcontract, and these documents are public records subject to disclosure under
the Illinois Freedom of Information Act.
   F.   Each contractor or subcontractor employed by a public works contract
with the Village must make its records available to the Illinois Department of
Labor and its agents, and to Federal, State or local law enforcement agencies
and prosecutors.
   G.   The Act provides that violations of its provisions are subject to
prosecution as a Class A misdemeanor under 820 Illinois Compiled Statutes 130/
6 et seq. (Ord. 2012-36, 7-23-2012)
 
Notes
1 3. 820 ILCS 130/0.01 et seq.
3-2-12: DRUG FREE WORKPLACE CONTRACTOR CERTIFICATION:
For each and every public works contract and other contracts for services
rendered to the Village, the Village shall require the contractor to execute a
certification that it is in compliance with the Drug Free Workplace Act 1 , as
amended. (Ord. 2011-35, 9-12-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 30 ILCS 580/1 et seq.
3-2-13: PURCHASING AND ACCOUNTS PAYABLE APPROVAL MATRIX:
   VILLAGE OF BLOOMINGDALE
   PURCHASING AND ACCOUNTS PAYABLE APPROVAL MATRIX
Required Authorizations For Purchase Approvals >$1,500.00 And $5,000.00
Department Initiator Authorization Authorization Authorization Authorization #4
                     #1            #2            #3
Required Authorizations For Purchase Approvals >$1,500.00 And $5,000.00
Department     Initiator     Authorization Authorization Authorization Authorization
                             #1            #2            #3            #4
               Employee      Manager       Administrator               
Administration Manager       Administrator                            
               Administrator Village                                  
                             President
               Employee      Manager       Department                  
                                           Director
Finance        Manager       Department                               
                             Director
               Department    Administrator                            
               Director
               Employee      Manager       Department                  
                                           Director
Police         Manager       Department                               
                             Director
               Department    Administrator                            
               Director
               Employee      Supervisor    Department                  
                                           Director
Public Works   Supervisor    Department                               
                             Director
               Department    Administrator                            
               Director
               Employee      Department                               
Engineering                  Director
               Department    Administrator                            
               Director
               Employee      Department                               
Building and                 Director
Zoning         Department    Administrator                            
               Director
Golf course    Employee      GC Manager    Manager (AVA)               
(GC)
 
Required Authorizations For Purchase Approvals >$5,000.00 And $20,000.00
Department Initiator Authorization Authorization Authorization Authorization #4
                     #1            #2            #3
Required Authorizations For Purchase Approvals >$5,000.00 And $20,000.00
Department     Initiator     Authorization Authorization Authorization Authorization
                             #1            #2            #3            #4
               Employee      Manager       Administrator               
Administration Manager       Administrator                            
               Administrator Village                                  
                             President
               Employee      Manager       Department    Administrator  
                                           Director
Finance        Manager       Department    Administrator               
                             Director
               Department    Administrator                            
               Director
               Employee      Manager       Department    Administrator  
                                           Director
Police         Manager       Department    Administrator               
                             Director
               Department    Administrator                            
               Director
               Employee      Supervisor    Department    Administrator  
                                           Director
Public Works   Supervisor    Department    Administrator               
                             Director
               Department    Administrator                            
               Director
               Employee      Department    Administrator               
Engineering                  Director
               Department    Administrator                            
               Director
               Employee      Department    Administrator               
Building and                 Director
Zoning         Department    Administrator                            
               Director
Golf course    Employee      GC Manager    Manager (AVA) Administrator  
(GC)
 
Required Authorizations For Purchase Approvals >$20,000.00
Department Initiator Authorization Authorization Authorization Authorization #4
                     #1            #2            #3
Required Authorizations For Purchase Approvals >$20,000.00
Department     Initiator     Authorization Authorization Authorization Authorization
                             #1            #2            #3            #4
               Employee      Manager       Administrator Village Board  
Administration Manager       Administrator Village Board               
               Administrator Village Board                            
               Employee      Manager       Department    Administrator Village Board
                                           Director
Finance        Manager       Department    Administrator Village Board  
                             Director
               Department    Administrator Village Board               
               Director
               Employee      Manager       Department    Administrator Village Board
                                           Director
Police         Manager       Department    Administrator Village Board  
                             Director
               Department    Administrator Village Board               
               Director
               Employee      Supervisor    Department    Administrator Village Board
                                           Director
Public Works   Supervisor    Department    Administrator Village Board  
                             Director
               Department    Administrator Village Board               
               Director
               Employee      Department    Administrator Village Board  
Engineering                  Director
               Department    Administrator Village Board               
               Director
               Employee      Department    Administrator Village Board  
Building and                 Director
Zoning         Department    Administrator Village Board               
               Director
Golf course    Employee      GC Manager    Manager (AVA) Administrator Village Board
(GC)
 
(Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
CHAPTER 3
TAXES
ARTICLE A. HOME RULE MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' AND SERVICE OCCUPATION TAXES
SECTION:
3-3A-1: Taxes Imposed; Rates
3-3A-2: Exemptions
3-3A-3: Statute Authority
3-3A-4: Administration And Enforcement
3-3A-1: TAXES IMPOSED; RATES:
A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property, other than an item of tangible personal property
titled or registered with an agency of this state's government, at retail, in
the village, at the rate of one-half percent (1/2%) of the gross receipts from
such sales made in the course of such business while this article is in effect;
and a tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the village in the
business of making sales of service at the rate of one-half percent (1/2%) of
the selling price of all tangible personal property transferred by such
serviceman as an incident to a sale of service. (Ord. 2002-11, 3-25-2002, eff.
7-1-2002)
3-3A-2: EXEMPTIONS:
Such home rule municipal retailers' occupation tax and the home rule municipal
service occupation tax shall not be applicable to the sales of food for human
consumption which is to be consumed off the premises where it is sold (other
than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and food which has been prepared for
immediate consumption) and prescription and nonprescription medicines, drugs,
medical appliances and insulin, urine testing materials, syringes and needles
used by diabetics. (Ord. 2002-11, 3-25-2002, eff. 7-1-2002)
3-3A-3: STATUTE AUTHORITY:
The imposition of these home rule taxes are in accordance with the provisions
of sections 8-11-1 and 8-11-5, respectively, of the Illinois municipal code 1 .
(Ord. 2002-11, 3-25-2002, eff. 7-1-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1, 5/8-11-5 (2000 state bar association edition).
3-3A-4: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an
incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the department of revenue
of the state of Illinois (the "department"). The department shall have full
power to administer and enforce the provisions of this article. (Ord. 2002-11,
3-25-2002, eff. 7-1-2002)
ARTICLE B. HOME RULE MUNICIPAL USE TAX
SECTION:
3-3B-1: Definition
3-3B-2: Tax Imposed; Rate
3-3B-3: Collection And Remittance Of Tax
3-3B-1: DEFINITION:
The words "selling price", as used in this article, shall have the meaning of
the words "selling price", as defined in the use tax act 1 , which act provides
that "selling price" means the consideration for a sale valued in money,
whether received in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, property other
than as hereinafter provided, and service, but not including the value of or
credit given for traded in tangible personal property where the item that is
traded in is of like kind and character as that which is being sold, and shall
be determined without any deduction on account of the property sold, the cost
of materials used, labor or service cost or any other expense whatsoever, but
does not include interest or finance charges which appear as separate items on
the bill of sale or sales contract nor charges added to prices by sellers on
account of the seller's tax liability under the retailers' occupation tax act 2
, or on account of the seller's duty to collect, from the purchaser, the tax
that is imposed by the use tax act 3 , or, except as otherwise provided with
respect to any cigarette tax imposed by the village, on account of the seller's
tax liability under any local occupation tax administered by the Illinois
department of revenue, or, except as otherwise provided with respect to any
cigarette tax imposed by the village on account of the seller's duty to
collect, from the purchasers, the tax that is imposed under any local use tax
administered by the Illinois department of revenue, but shall include charges
that are added to prices by sellers on account of the seller's tax liability
under the cigarette tax act 4 , on account of the seller's duty to collect,
from the purchaser, the tax imposed under the cigarette use tax act 5 , and on
account of the seller's duty to collect, from the purchaser, any cigarette tax
imposed by the village. The phrase "like kind and character", as used in this
definition, shall be liberally construed (including, but not limited to, any
form of motor vehicle for any form of motor vehicle, or any kind of farm or
agricultural implement for any other kind of farm or agricultural implement),
while not including a kind of item which, if sold at retail by that retailer,
would be exempt from retailers' occupation tax and use tax as an isolated or
occasional sale. (Ord. 75-1, 1-13-1975; amd. 2012 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 105/2.
2 2. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
3 3. 35 ILCS 105/1 et seq.
4 4. 35 ILCS 130/1 et seq.
5 5. 35 ILCS 135/1 et seq.
3-3B-2: TAX IMPOSED; RATE:
A tax is hereby imposed, in accordance with the provisions of section 8-11-6 of
the Illinois municipal code, upon the privilege of using in the village any
item of tangible personal property which is purchased at retail from a
retailer, and which item is titled or registered at a location within the
village with a governmental agency of the state of Illinois. The rate of the
tax imposed shall be one percent (1%) of the selling price of such tangible
personal property. (Ord. 75-1, 1-13-1975; amd. 2012 Code)
3-3B-3: COLLECTION AND REMITTANCE OF TAX:
The tax imposed shall be collected by the village from all persons whose
address, for title or certificate of registration purposes, for the tangible
personal property is given as within the village. (Ord. 75-1, 1-13-1975; amd.
2012 Code)
ARTICLE C. MUNICIPAL MOTOR FUEL TAX
SECTION:
3-3C-1: Definitions
3-3C-2: Tax Imposed; Rate
3-3C-3: Collection And Remittance Of Tax
3-3C-4: Credit For Overpayment
3-3C-5: Late Payment Penalty
3-3C-6: Accounting
3-3C-7: Records Kept
3-3C-8: Penalty
3-3C-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this article, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
MOTOR FUEL: All volatile liquids compounded or used for fueling motor vehicles,
including gasoline, gasohol and diesel fuel.
MOTOR FUEL RETAILER: Any person, firm or corporation engaged in the business of
selling motor fuel at retail and not for resale. (Ord. 2010-32, 8-23-2010, eff.
11-1-2010)
3-3C-2: TAX IMPOSED; RATE:
There is hereby imposed and levied a tax at a rate of two cents ($0.02) per
gallon, or fraction thereof, upon the retail purchase of motor fuel within the
village. This tax shall be in addition to any and all other taxes. The ultimate
incidence and liability for payment of such tax shall be upon the retail
purchaser of motor fuel. Nothing herein shall be construed to impose a tax upon
the occupation of selling motor fuel. (Ord. 2010-32, 8-23-2010, eff. 11-1-2010)
3-3C-3: COLLECTION AND REMITTANCE OF TAX:
Each motor fuel retailer in the village shall have the duty to collect the
municipal motor fuel tax from each purchaser of motor fuel and to remit one
hundred percent (100%) of said collection to the village and to provide a full
accounting therefor with each remittance on a form provided by the village. The
form and remittance shall be filed with the village finance director-treasurer
on the same due date as established for filing the Illinois department of
revenue's ST-1 sales and use tax return or the twentieth of the month following
the month in which the tax was collected, whichever is earlier. The village may
bring an action to collect any unpaid tax. If such action is taken, the village
may add up to one hundred percent (100%) of the costs of said action to the tax
due from the motor fuel retailer which would be in addition to the tax and any
other penalties or fines authorized by this article. (Ord. 2010-32, 8-23-2010,
eff. 11-1-2010)
3-3C-4: CREDIT FOR OVERPAYMENT:
If an amount of tax has been remitted which was not due under the provisions of
this article, whether as the result of a mistake of fact or an error of law,
then such amount shall be credited against any future remittance due or to
become due under this article, along with a full accounting therefor; provided,
that said mistake or error occurred within the most recent prior twelve (12)
consecutive month period. (Ord. 2010-32, 8-23-2010, eff. 11-1-2010)
3-3C-5: LATE PAYMENT PENALTY:
If the tax imposed by this article is not remitted to the village when due, a
late penalty in the amount of twelve percent (12%) per annum based on a three
hundred sixty (360) day year of the unpaid tax shall be added for each day or
portion thereof that said tax remains unpaid, and the total of the tax due,
plus the late penalty imposed herein, shall be paid to the village. The village
may bring an action to collect any unpaid late penalty. (Ord. 2010-32, 8-23-
2010, eff. 11-1-2010)
3-3C-6: ACCOUNTING:
The finance director-treasurer shall deposit all municipal motor fuel tax
receipts into the special revenue fund entitled "motor fuel tax fund" and
further, record and account for all uses and expenses thereof in said fund.
(Ord. 2010-32, 8-23-2010, eff. 11-1-2010)
3-3C-7: RECORDS KEPT:
Each motor fuel retailer shall have the duty to maintain complete and accurate
books, records and accounts showing the gross receipts for the sale of motor
fuel and the taxes collected from the purchaser thereof, which shall be
available to the village for examination and for audit by the village upon
reasonable notice during customary business hours. Costs incurred by the
village for said examination and audit are the responsibility of the village.
(Ord. 2010-32, 8-23-2010, eff. 11-1-2010)
3-3C-8: PENALTY:
In addition to any other penalty, any person or motor fuel retailer violating
any provision of this article, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2010-32, 8-23-2010, eff. 11-1-2010; amd. 2012 Code)
ARTICLE D. HOTEL AND MOTEL USE TAXES
SECTION:
3-3D-1: Use Tax On Businesses
3-3D-2: Use Tax On Patrons
3-3D-1: USE TAX ON BUSINESSES:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:
    GROSS RENTAL RECEIPTS: The total amount of consideration for occupancy,
valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including all
receipts, cash, credits, and property or services of any kind or nature,
including, but not limited to, amounts charged for the making, servicing or
facilitating reservations.
   HOTEL: Any building or buildings in which the public may, for a
consideration, obtain living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations.
The term includes inns, motels, tourist homes or courts, lodging houses,
rooming houses and apartment houses.
   PERMANENT RESIDENT: Any person who occupied or has the right to occupy any
room or rooms, regardless of whether or not it is the same room or rooms, in a
hotel for at least thirty (30) consecutive days.
   PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint adventure, public or private corporation, limited liability
company, or a receiver, executor, trustee, guardian or other representative
appointed by order of any court.
   RENT OR RENTAL: The consideration received for occupancy, valued in money,
whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits
and property or services of any kind or nature.
   ROOM OR ROOMS: Any living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations.
(Ord. 86-33, 7-28-1986; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2018-28, 6-25-2018)
   B.   Tax Levied And Imposed: There is hereby levied and imposed upon the use
and privilege of engaging in the business of leasing, renting, making,
facilitating or servicing the leasing or renting of a hotel or motel room in
the Village of Bloomingdale, a tax of six percent (6%) on the gross rental
receipts (not including taxes or other non-room rental charges added to the
hotel or motel bill) for each such hotel or motel room rented for every twenty
four (24) hour period, or any fraction thereof.
   C.   Tax Return And Payment:
      1.   Each person, business, corporation, partnership or other entity,
subject to the tax imposed in this section shall, on or before the fifteenth
day of each month following thereafter, pay to the Village Finance Director-
Treasurer the amount of tax imposed hereby during the prior month and remit
said payment to the Village Finance Director-Treasurer along with a sworn
return that shall state as follows:
         a.   The name and location of the hotel at which the Hotel Tax was
collected;
         b.   The principal place of business;
         c.   The gross receipts received by the hotel upon which the Hotel Tax
is imposed;
         d.   The amount of the Hotel Tax collected; and
         e.   Such other reasonable and related information as the Corporate
Authorities may require.
      2.   Each person making the return shall, at the time of making such
return, pay to the Village Finance Director-Treasurer, the amount of tax herein
imposed. (Ord. 2018-28, 6-25-2018)
   D.   Duty To Collect Tax: The owner and operator of each hotel and the
person to whom the license to operate said hotel was issued by the Village
shall, as trustees of said tax, bear jointly and severally the duty to collect
the Use Tax hereby imposed from each user, lessee or tenant of a hotel room and
remit such tax to the Village in accordance with this section. The tax imposed
hereby shall be tendered to and collected by such owner, operator or licensee
from the user, lessee or tenant of a room or rooms at the time that such owner,
operator or licensee collects the price, charge or rent to which it applies.
   E.   Use Of Proceeds: The monies collected by the Village pursuant to this
amended section and that collected by the Village pursuant to the preamended
form of this section, from and after the date that the Village attained home
rule authority through and including the last day preceding the effective date
hereof, may be, and have been, pursuant to the Village home rule authority,
expended in any lawful manner and for any lawful purpose determined necessary
or desirable by the Village.
   F.   Inspection Of Records: Any person or agent designated by the Village
Administrator as a representative of the Village may, upon prior written notice
to the owner, operator or licensee of a hotel, enter the premises of such hotel
for the purpose of inspection and examination of books and records for the
proper administration and enforcement of this section. It is unlawful for any
person to prevent, hinder or interfere with the Village or the Village
representative in the discharge of the procedures as provided in this section.
(Ord. 2011-25, 6-27-2011)
   G.   Enforcement And Penalties:
      1.   Any person, firm or corporation who shall be convicted of violating
any provision of this section shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2011-25, 6-27-2011; amd. 2012 Code)
      2.   In addition, a fee of twelve percent (12%) per annum of the balance
of taxes collected or required to be collected pursuant to this section, but
yet unpaid to the Village, shall be applied to all such taxes unpaid on or
before the fifteenth day of the month following the month in which said taxes
accrued. (Ord. 2011-25, 6-27-2011)
      3.   The appropriate authorities of the Village may take such actions
they deem proper to enforce the terms and conditions of this section,
including, without limitation, an action in equity to compel compliance with
its terms and an action to collect unpaid taxes with interest at the
aforementioned rate. (Ord. 2011-25, 6-27-2011; amd. 2012 Code)
      4.   The failure to comply with any obligation imposed by this section
shall be grounds for the suspension or revocation of any business license or
registration issued by the Village to a hotel or accepted by the Village for a
hotel, as the case may be, pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Code.
(Ord. 2011-25, 6-27-2011)
3-3D-2: USE TAX ON PATRONS:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply:
    HOTEL AND/OR MOTEL: Any building or buildings in which the public may, for
consideration, obtain living quarters, sleeping, or housekeeping accommodations
including, without limitation, inns, hotels, motels, tourist homes or courts,
lodging houses, and rooming houses.
   ROOM: Any living quarters, sleeping, or housekeeping accommodations. (Ord.
2007-27, 7-30-2007)
   B.   Tax Imposed; Rate: The Village hereby establishes a one percent (1%)
Hotel/Motel Use Tax upon the privilege of renting, leasing, or letting of rooms
from a hotel/motel within the Village by patrons thereof. The ultimate
incidence of and liability for payment of said tax shall be borne by those
patrons who rent, lease or let a room in accordance herewith, without regard to
such patrons' duration of stay or status as "permanent residents", as defined
by the Hotel/Motel Operators' Occupation Tax Act. (Ord. 2011-25, 6-27-2011;
amd. 2012 Code)
   C.   Effective Date Of Tax; Tax Return And Payment: The tax imposed pursuant
to subsection B of this section shall be effective from and after September 1,
2007. Beginning September 1, 2007, each hotel/motel operator who collects, or
is required to collect, from his patrons the Hotel/Motel Tax established by
this section shall, on or before the fifteenth day of each month following
thereafter, pay to the Village Finance Director-Treasurer the amount of tax
imposed hereby during the prior month and remit said payment to the Village
Finance Director-Treasurer along with a return that shall state as follows:
(Ord. 2007-27, 7-30-2007; amd. 2012 Code)
      1.   The name and location of the hotel/motel at which the Hotel/Motel
Tax was collected by the hotel/motel operator;
      2.   The principal place of business of the hotel/motel operator;
      3.   The gross fees received by the hotel/motel operator upon which the
Hotel/Motel Tax is imposed;
      4.   The amount of the Hotel/Motel Tax collected; and
      5.   Such other reasonable and related information as the Corporate
Authorities may require. (Ord. 2007-27, 7-30-2007)
   D.   Duty To Collect Tax: The owner and operator of each hotel/motel and the
person to whom the license to operate said hotel/motel was issued by the
Village shall, as trustees of said tax, bear jointly and severally, the duty to
collect the Use Tax hereby imposed from each user, lessee or tenant of a hotel/
motel room and remit such tax to the Village in accordance with this section.
The tax imposed hereby shall be tendered to and collected by such owner,
operator or licensee from the user, lessee or tenant of a room or rooms at the
time that such owner, operator or licensee collects the price, charge or rent
to which it applies.
   E.   Use Of Proceeds: The monies collected by the Village pursuant to this
amended section and that collected by the Village pursuant to the preamended
form of this section from and after the date that the Village attained home
rule authority through and including the last day preceding the effective date
hereof, may be, and have been, pursuant to the Village home rule authority,
expended in any lawful manner and for any lawful purpose determined necessary
or desirable by the Village.
   F.   Inspection Of Records: Any person or agent designated by the Village
Administrator as a representative of the Village may, upon prior written notice
to the owner, operator or licensee of a hotel/motel, enter the premises of such
hotel/motel for the purpose of inspection and examination of books and records
for the proper administration and enforcement of this section. It is unlawful
for any person to prevent, hinder or interfere with the Village or the Village
representative in the discharge of the procedures as provided in this section.
   G.   Enforcement And Penalties:
      1.   Any person, firm or corporation who shall be convicted of violating
any provisions of this section shall be subject to a penalty not exceeding one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00), with each and every day that the violation of
this section is allowed to remain in effect being deemed a complete and
separate offense.
      2.   In addition, a fee of twelve percent (12%) per annum of the balance
of taxes collected or required to be collected pursuant to this section, but
yet unpaid to the Village, shall be applied to all such taxes unpaid on or
before the fifteenth day of the month following the month in which said taxes
accrued.
      3.   The appropriate authorities of the Village may take such actions
they deem proper to enforce the terms and conditions of this section,
including, without limitation, an action in equity to compel compliance with
its terms and an action to collect unpaid taxes with interest at the
aforementioned rate.
      4.   Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms of this section
shall be subject, in addition to the penalties of this subsection, to the
payment of court costs and reasonable attorney fees of the Village.
      5.   The failure to comply with any obligation imposed by this section
shall be grounds for the suspension or revocation of any business license or
registration issued by the Village to a hotel/motel or accepted by the Village
for a hotel/motel, as the case may be, pursuant to the applicable provisions of
this Code. (Ord. 2011-25, 6-27-2011)
ARTICLE E. SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
SECTION:
3-3E-1: Definitions
3-3E-2: Tax Imposed; Exemptions
3-3E-3: Collection Of Tax By Retailers
3-3E-4: Tax Returns
3-3E-5: Resales
3-3E-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
AMOUNT PAID: The amount charged to the taxpayer's service address in the
village regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
DEPARTMENT: The Illinois department of revenue.
GROSS CHARGE: The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in the village and for all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money, whether paid
in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and property of every
kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction on account of the
cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor or
service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended, the
amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. "Gross charges" for
private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel termination
point within the village and charges for that portion of the interoffice
channels provided within the village. Charges for that portion of the
interoffice channel connecting two (2) or more channel termination points, one
or more of which is located within the jurisdictional boundary of the village,
shall be determined by the retailer by multiplying an amount equal to the total
charge for the interoffice channel by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
number of channel termination points that are located within the jurisdictional
boundary of the village and the denominator of which is the total number of
channel termination points connected by the interoffice channel. However,
"gross charge" shall not include any of the following:
   A.   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made
pursuant to: 1) the tax imposed by this article; 2) the tax imposed by the
telecommunications excise tax act 1 ; 3) the tax imposed by section 4251 of the
internal revenue code; 4) 911 surcharges; or 5) charges added to customers'
bills pursuant to the provisions of section 9-221 or 9-222 of the public
utilities act, as amended, or any similar charges added to customers' bills by
retailers who are not subject to rate regulation by the Illinois commerce
commission for the purpose of recovering any of the tax liabilities or other
amounts specified in those provisions of the public utilities act.
   B.   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of the
village.
   C.   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of data
or information for subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time sharing agreement.
   D.   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is leased
or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges.
   E.   Charges to business enterprises certified as exempt under section 9-
222.1 of the public utilities act to the extent of such exemption and during
the period of time specified by the department of commerce and economic
opportunity.
   F.   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed under
this article has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent that
the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries or
between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering
such service.
   G.   Bad debts ("bad debt" means any portion of a debt that is related to a
sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made).
   H.   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin operated telecommunications
devices.
   I.   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under the
telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee act.
   J.   Charges for nontaxable services or telecommunications if: 1) those
charges are aggregated with other charges for telecommunications that are
taxable; 2) those charges are not separately stated on the customer bill or
invoice; and 3) the retailer can reasonably identify the nontaxable charges on
the retailer's books and records kept in the regular course of business. If the
nontaxable charges cannot reasonably be identified, the gross charge from the
sale of both taxable and nontaxable services or telecommunications billed on a
combined basis shall be attributed to the taxable services or
telecommunications. The burden of proving nontaxable charges shall be on the
retailer of the telecommunications.
INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that either originate or
terminate outside this state.
INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within this state.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company, or
a receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by order of
any court, the federal and state governments, including state universities
created by statute, or any city, town, county, or other political subdivision
of this state.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: The acquisition, consumption or use of telecommunications
through a sale at retail.
RETAILER: Includes every person engaged in the business of making "sales at
retail" as defined in this section.
RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (Or Any Like Term):
Includes any retailer having or maintaining within this state, directly or by a
subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission facilities, sales
office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or other
representative operating within this state under the authority of the retailer
or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or agent or
other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or whether
such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
SALES AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of
telecommunications and all services and equipment provided in connection
therewith for a consideration, to persons other than the federal and state
governments, and state universities created by statute and other than between a
parent corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption and not for resale.
SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems, and maritime
systems, "service address" means the customer's place of primary use as defined
in the mobile telecommunications sourcing conformity act. For air to ground
systems and the like, "service address" shall mean the location of a taxpayer's
primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by telephone number,
authorization code, or location in Illinois where bills are sent.
TAXPAYER: A person who individually or through his or her agents, employees, or
permittees engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in the village and who incurs a tax liability as authorized
by this article.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: In addition to the meaning ordinarily and popularly
ascribed thereto, includes, without limitation, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
private line services, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter,
computer exchange services, cellular mobile telecommunications service,
specialized mobile radio, stationary two-way radio, paging service, or any
other form of mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. As used in this article, "private line" means
a dedicated nontraffic sensitive service for a single customer, that entitles
the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group
of channels, from one or more specified locations to one or more other
specified locations. The definition of "telecommunications" shall not include
value added services in which computer processing applications are used to act
on the form, content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes other
than transmission. "Telecommunications" shall not include purchases of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end to end communications.
Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of
intercompany facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent
provision of, used as a component of, or integrated into, end to end
telecommunications service shall be nontaxable as sales for resale. Prepaid
telephone calling arrangements shall not be considered "telecommunications"
subject to the tax imposed under this article. For purposes of this definition,
"prepaid telephone calling arrangements" means that term as defined in section
2-27 of the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act. (Ord. 2010-15, 3-22-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 630/1.
3-3E-2: TAX IMPOSED; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Effective for all gross charges billed by telecommunications retailers
on: 1) the first day of July next following the adoption and filing of the
ordinance codified herein with the Department of Revenue, if filed on or before
the preceding March 20th or 2) the first day of January next following the
adoption and filing of the ordinance codified herein with the Department of
Revenue, if filed on or before the preceding September 20th, a tax is hereby
imposed upon the following acts or privileges:
      1.   The act or privilege of originating in the Village or receiving in
the Village intrastate telecommunications by a person, at a rate of one percent
(1%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer. To prevent actual multimunicipal taxation of the act or privilege
that is subject to taxation under this section, any taxpayer, upon proof that
the taxpayer has paid a tax in another municipality on that event, shall be
allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this
section to the extent of the amount of the tax properly due and paid in the
Village that was not previously allowed as a credit against any other Municipal
tax.
      2.   The act or privilege of originating in the Village or receiving in
the Village interstate telecommunications by a person, at a rate of one percent
(1%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a
retailer. To prevent actual multistate or multimunicipal taxation of the act or
privilege that is subject to taxation under this subsection A2, any taxpayer,
upon proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another state or municipality in
this State on such event, shall be allowed a credit against any tax enacted
pursuant to or authorized by this section to the extent of the amount of such
tax properly paid in a municipality in this State which was not previously
allowed as a credit against any other state or local tax in this State. (Ord.
2010-15, 3-22-2010; amd. Ord. 2016-31, 8-22-2016; Ord. 2018-31, 8-27-2018)
   B.   This tax is not imposed on the acts or privileges taxed hereunder to
the extent such acts or privileges may not, under the Constitution and Statutes
of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the Village. (Ord.
2010-15, 3-22-2010)
3-3E-3: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS:
   A.   The tax authorized by this article shall be collected from the taxpayer
by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this State and shall be
remitted by such retailer to the department in the manner required by the Act.
Retailers shall collect the tax from the taxpayer by adding the tax to the
gross charge for the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications when sold for use, in the manner prescribed by the
department. The tax authorized by this article shall constitute a debt of the
taxpayer to the retailer until paid and, if unpaid, is recoverable at law in
the same manner as the original charge for such sale at retail. If the retailer
fails to collect the tax from the taxpayer, then the taxpayer shall be required
to pay the tax directly to the department in the manner provided by the
department.
   B.   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this article shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications. (Ord. 2010-15, 3-22-2010)
3-3E-4: TAX RETURNS:
Every month the tax imposed under this article on telecommunications retailers
shall be returned with appropriate forms and information as required by the
department pursuant to the Act and any accompanying rules and regulations
created by the department to implement the Act. (Ord. 2010-15, 3-22-2010)
3-3E-5: RESALES:
The act or privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications in this
State shall not be made tax free on the ground of being a sale for resale,
unless the person has an active resale number from the department and furnishes
that number to the retailer in connection with certifying to the retailer that
any sale to such person is nontaxable because of being a sale for resale. (Ord.
2010-15, 3-22-2010)
CHAPTER 4
TAX INCREMENT FINANCING INTERESTED PARTIES REGISTRATION RULES
SECTION:
3-4-1: Rules Adopted; Registration Form
3-4-2: Definitions
3-4-3: Registries Established
3-4-4: Maintenance Of Registries
3-4-5: Submission Of Registration
3-4-6: Eligibility Determined
3-4-7: Renewals And Termination
3-4-8: Amendment To Registration
3-4-9: Public Inspection Of Registries
3-4-10: Notices To Interested Parties
3-4-11: Noninterference
3-4-12: Amendment Of Provisions
3-4-1: RULES ADOPTED; REGISTRATION FORM:
In accordance with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-74.4-4.2, the village
hereby adopts the registration rules of this chapter as registration rules for
each interested parties registry. Additionally, the village hereby prescribes
the registration form attached to ordinance 2006-32 as exhibit B as the
registration form each resident and organization must complete in order to be
placed on the interested parties registry. (Ord. 2006-32, 7-10-2006)
3-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the definitions set
forth below:
ACT: The tax increment allocation redevelopment act, 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-74.4-1 et seq., as amended from time to time.
INTERESTED PARTY(IES): A. Any organization(s) active within the village;
   B.   Any resident(s) of the village; and
   C.   Any other entity or person otherwise entitled under the act to register
in a specific registry who has registered in such registry and whose
registration has not been terminated in accordance with this chapter.
REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA: A redevelopment project area that:
   A.   Is intended to qualify (or has subsequently qualified) as a
"redevelopment project area" under the act; and
   B.   Is subject to the interested parties registry requirements of the act.
REGISTRATION FORM: The form appended to ordinance 2006-32 or such revised form
as may be approved by the village consistent with the requirements of the act.
REGISTRY OR REGISTRIES: Each interested parties registry, and all such
registries, collectively, established by the village pursuant to 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-74.4-4.2 for the redevelopment project area.
VILLAGE: The village of Bloomingdale, a home rule unit of government under
section 6, article VII of the 1970 constitution of the state of Illinois. (Ord.
2006-32, 7-10-2006)
3-4-3: REGISTRIES ESTABLISHED:
The village shall establish a separate interested parties registry for each
redevelopment project area, whether existing as of the effective date hereof or
hereafter established. The village shall establish a new registry whenever it
has identified an area for study and possible designation as a redevelopment
project area. In any event, the process of establishing the new registry must
be completed prior to the deadline for sending any of the notices required by
section
3-4-10 of this chapter or any other notices required by the act with respect to
the proposed redevelopment project area. (Ord. 2006-32, 7-10-2006)
3-4-4: MAINTENANCE OF REGISTRIES:
The registries shall be maintained by the village clerk or his or her designee.
In the event the village determines that a village official other than the
clerk should maintain the registries, the village may transfer the
responsibility for maintaining the registries to such other village official;
provided, that the village: (Ord. 2006-32, 7-10-2006; amd. 2012 Code)
   A.   Gives prior written notice to all interested parties not less than
thirty (30) days prior to such transfer; and
   B.   Publishes notice of such transfer in a newspaper of general circulation
in the village. (Ord. 2006-32, 7-10-2006)
3-4-5: SUBMISSION OF REGISTRATION:
   A.   Individuals: An individual seeking to register as an interested person
with respect to a redevelopment project area must complete and submit a
registration form to the village clerk. Such individual must also submit a copy
of a current driver's license, lease, utility bill, financial statement or such
other evidence as may be acceptable to the clerk to establish the individual's
current village residency.
   B.   Organizations: An organization seeking to register as an interested
person with respect to a redevelopment project area must complete and submit a
registration form to the village clerk. Such organization must also submit a
copy of a one page statement describing the organization's current operations
in the village. (Ord. 2006-32, 7-10-2006)
3-4-6: ELIGIBILITY DETERMINED:
All individuals and organizations whose registration form and supporting
documentation complies with this chapter shall be registered in the applicable
registry within ten (10) business days of the village clerk's receipt of all
such documents. The clerk shall provide written notice to the registrant
confirming such registration. Upon registration, interested parties shall be
entitled to receive all notices and documents required to be delivered under
this chapter or as otherwise required under the act with respect to the
applicable redevelopment project area. If the village clerk determines that a
registrant's registration form and/or supporting documentation is incomplete or
does not comply with this chapter, the clerk shall give written notice to the
registrant specifying the defect(s). The registrant shall be entitled to
correct any defects and resubmit a new registration form and supporting
documentation. (Ord. 2006-32, 7-10-2006)
3-4-7: RENEWALS AND TERMINATION:
An interested person's registration shall remain effective for a period of
three (3) years. At any time after such three (3) year period, the village
clerk shall provide written notice by regular mail to the interested person
stating that such registration shall terminate unless the interested person
renews such registration within thirty (30) days of the clerk's mailing of
written notice. To renew such registration, the interested person shall, within
such thirty (30) day period, complete and submit the same registration form and
supporting documentation then required of initial registrants in order to
permit the clerk to confirm such person's residency or such organization's
operations in the village. The registration of all individuals and
organizations whose registration form and supporting documentation is submitted
in a timely manner and complies with this chapter shall be renewed for an
additional, consecutive three (3) year period. If the village clerk determines
that a registrant's renewal registration form and/or supporting documentation
is incomplete or does not comply with this chapter, the clerk shall give
written notice to the registrant at the address specified in the renewal
registration form submitted by such registrant, specifying the defect(s). The
registrant shall be entitled to correct any defects and resubmit a new
registration form and supporting documentation within thirty (30) days of
receipt of the clerk's notice. If all defects are not corrected within thirty
(30) days of the interested person's receipt of the village clerk's notice, the
interested person's registration shall be terminated. Any interested person
whose registration is terminated shall be entitled to register again as if a
first time registrant. (Ord. 2006-32, 7-10-2006; amd. 2012 Code)
3-4-8: AMENDMENT TO REGISTRATION:
An interested party may amend its registration by giving written notice to the
village clerk by certified mail of any of the following: a) change in address
for notice purposes; b) in the case of organizations, a change in the name of
the contact person; and c) a termination of registration. Upon receipt of such
notice, the clerk shall revise the applicable registry accordingly. (Ord. 2006-
32, 7-10-2006)
3-4-9: PUBLIC INSPECTION OF REGISTRIES:
Each registry shall be available for public inspection during normal village
business hours. The registry shall include the name, address and telephone
number of each interested person, and for organizations, the name and phone
number of a designated contact person. (Ord. 2006-32, 7-10-2006)
3-4-10: NOTICES TO INTERESTED PARTIES:
Interested parties shall be sent the following notices and any other notices
required under the act with respect to the applicable redevelopment project
area:
   A.   Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-74.4-5(a), notice of the
availability of a proposed redevelopment plan and eligibility report, including
how to obtain this information. Such notice shall be sent by mail within a
reasonable period of time after the adoption of the ordinance fixing the public
hearing for the proposed redevelopment plan.
   B.   Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-74.4-5(a), notice of
changes to proposed redevelopment plans that do not: 1) add additional parcels
of property to the proposed redevelopment project area; 2) substantially affect
the general land uses proposed in the redevelopment plan; 3) substantially
change the nature of or extend the life of the redevelopment project; or 4)
increase the number of low or very low income households to be displaced from
the redevelopment project area; provided, that measured from the time of
creation of the redevelopment project area, the total displacement of
households will exceed ten (10). Such notice shall be sent by mail not later
than ten (10) days following the village adoption by ordinance of such changes.
   C.   Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-74.4-5(c), notice of
amendments to previously approved redevelopment plans that do not: 1) add
additional parcels of property to the redevelopment project area; 2)
substantially affect the general land uses in the redevelopment plan; 3)
substantially change the nature of the redevelopment project; 4) increase the
total estimated redevelopment project costs set out in the redevelopment plan
by more than five percent (5%) after adjustment for inflation from the date the
plan was adopted; 5) add additional redevelopment project costs to the itemized
list of redevelopment project costs set out in the redevelopment plan; or 6)
increase the number of low or very low income households to be displaced from
the redevelopment project area; provided, that measured from the time of
creation of the redevelopment project area, the total displacement of inhabited
households will exceed ten (10). Such notice will be sent by mail not later
than ten (10) days following the village adoption by ordinance of such
amendment.
   D.   Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-74.4-5(d)(9) for
redevelopment plans or projects that would result in the displacement of
residents from ten (10) or more inhabited residential units or that contain
seventy five (75) or more inhabited residential units, notice of the
availability of the annual report described by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
11-74.4-5(d), including how to obtain the annual report. Such notice shall be
sent by mail within a reasonable period of time after completion of the
certified audit report.
   E.   Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-74.4-6(e), notice of the
preliminary public meeting required under the act for a proposed redevelopment
project area that will result in the displacement of ten (10) or more inhabited
residential units or which will contain seventy five (75) or more inhabited
residential units. Such notice shall be sent by certified mail not less than
fifteen (15) days before the date of such preliminary public meeting. (Ord.
2006-32, 7-10-2006)
3-4-11: NONINTERFERENCE:
This chapter shall not be used to prohibit or otherwise interfere with the
ability of eligible organizations and individuals to register for receipt of
information to which they are entitled under the act. (Ord. 2006-32, 7-10-2006)
3-4-12: AMENDMENT OF PROVISIONS:
The village, with the consent of the village attorney as to form and legality,
shall have the authority to amend the registration rules and the form from time
to time as may be necessary or desirable to comply with and carry out the
purposes intended by the act. (Ord. 2006-32, 7-10-2006)
CHAPTER 5
TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
SECTION:
3-5-1: Short Title
3-5-2: Scope; Application Of Provisions
3-5-3: Definitions
3-5-4: Notice Requirements
3-5-5: Delinquent Notices, Payments, Remittances Or Other Filings
3-5-6: Application Of Tax Payments
3-5-7: Certain Credits And Refunds
3-5-8: Audit Procedure
3-5-9: Appeals
3-5-10: Payment Required; Interest And Penalties
3-5-11: Installment Contracts
3-5-12: Statute Of Limitations
3-5-13: Voluntary Disclosure
3-5-14: Publication Of Tax Ordinances; Copies
3-5-15: Review Of Liens
3-5-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the LOCALLY IMPOSED AND
ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY ORDINANCE. (2012 Code)
3-5-2: SCOPE; APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Scope: The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the village
procedures in connection with all of the village locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   B.   Application Of Provisions; Conflicting Provisions: This chapter shall
be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of the village tax
ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in conflict with or
inconsistent with this chapter, this chapter shall be controlling. (2012 Code)
3-5-3: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them as
follows:
ACT: The local government taxpayers' bill of rights act 1 .
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The village president and board of trustees.
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The village president, including those village staff
members, employees or agents, to the extent they are authorized by the "local
tax administrator" to act in the "local tax administrator's" stead, who are
charged with the administration and collection of the locally imposed and
administered taxes.
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the village
that is collected or administered by the village, and not an agency or
department of the state, but excludes any taxes imposed upon real property
under the property tax code or fees collected by the village other than
infrastructure maintenance fees if lawfully enacted and validly existing.
NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered tax,
including the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax is placed, and,
with respect to consumer taxes, the business or entity required to collect and
pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the village.
VILLAGE: The village of Bloomingdale, Illinois. (2012 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 45/1 et seq.
3-5-4: NOTICE REQUIREMENTS:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing and mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to
the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the
local administrator. The notice shall be sent by U.S. registered or certified
mail. (2012 Code)
3-5-5: DELINQUENT NOTICES, PAYMENTS, REMITTANCES OR OTHER FILINGS:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is: a)
physically received by the village on or before the due date; or b) received in
an envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated
on or before the due date, properly addressed to the village, with adequate
postage prepaid. (2012 Code)
3-5-6: APPLICATION OF TAX PAYMENTS:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: first, to the tax due for the applicable period; second, to
the interest due for the applicable period; and third, to the penalty for the
applicable period. (2012 Code)
3-5-7: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
   A.   Written Protest Required: The village shall not refund or credit any
taxes voluntarily paid without written protest at the time of payment in the
event that a locally imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted
or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer
shall not be deemed to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked
knowledge of the facts upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment
or if the taxpayer paid the taxes under duress.
   B.   Statute Of Limitations: The statute of limitations on a claim for
credit or refund shall be four (4) years after the payment in error was made.
The village shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the village.
   C.   Procedure: The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally
imposed and administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as
follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund, together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment;
         d.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest, and penalties overpaid, and
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the village.
      2.   Within ten (10) days of the receipt by the local tax administrator
of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for a refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of five percent (5%) per annum, based on
a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days elapsed,
from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing a refund check or the
grant of a credit. (2012 Code)
3-5-8: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any locally administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this chapter.
   A.   Information Required: Each notice shall contain the following
information:
      1.   The tax;
      2.   The time period of the audit; and
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   B.   Time For Conducting Audit:
      1.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours, and if
the date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to
the taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within
thirty (30) days of the originally designated audit and during normal business
hours.
      2.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer
and the local tax administrator agree to some other convenient time. In the
event the taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question,
the taxpayer may request another date within the thirty (30) days, approved in
writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   C.   Taxpayer's Books And Records:
      1.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the
taxpayer's business or activities, including original source documents and
books of entry denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given
rise to any tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in
the English language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by
the village.
      2.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make
available his books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer
(or tax collector) fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within
the time provided, the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination
and assessment based on the tax administrator's determination of the best
estimate of the taxpayer's liability.
   D.   Overpayments: If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a
locally imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice
of the amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30)
days of the village's determination of the amount of overpayment.
   E.   Payment To Improper Entity: In the event a tax payment was submitted to
the incorrect local governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall
notify the local governmental entity imposing such tax. (2012 Code)
3-5-9: APPEALS:
   A.   Contents Of Notice Regarding Taxes Due: The local tax administrator
shall send written notice to a taxpayer upon the local tax administrator's
issuance of a protestable notice of tax due, a bill, a claim denial, or a
notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The notice shall include the
following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment;
      2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      4.   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   B.   Request For Hearing: The taxpayer who receives written notice from the
local tax administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file
with the local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing,
setting forth the basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written
protest and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator
within forty five (45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax
determination and assessment.
   C.   Hearing Scheduled; Notice: If a timely written notice and petition for
hearing is filed, the local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for
hearing and shall give written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be
scheduled for a date within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written
protest and petition for hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date
convenient to all parties.
   D.   Time Limit For Filing Hearing Request: If a written protest and
petition for hearing is not filed within the forty five (45) day period, the
tax determination, audit or assessment shall become a final bill, due and
owing, without further notice.
   E.   Reopening, Extension Of Hearing Request: Upon the showing of reasonable
cause by the taxpayer and the full payment of the contested tax liability along
with interest accrued as of the date of the tax, the local tax administrator
may reopen or extend the time for filing a written protest and petition for
hearing. In no event shall the time for filing a written protest and petition
for hearing be reopened or extended for more than ninety (90) days after the
expiration of the forty five (45) day period.
   F.   Conduct Of Hearing; Decision:
      1.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under this section, the local tax
administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any appeal.
      2.   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed fourteen (14) days.
      3.   At the hearing, the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
      4.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision. (2012 Code)
3-5-10: PAYMENT REQUIRED; INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Time For Payment: In the event a determination has been made that a tax
is due and owing, through audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be
paid within the time frame otherwise indicated.
   B.   Interest: The village hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be five
percent (5%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days
and the number of days elapsed.
   C.   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be shown as due
on a return shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of five percent (5%)
of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or
manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the village
issuing a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure
to file penalty shall be assessed equal to ten percent (10%) of the total tax
due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was required to be
filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a failure to file
penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance.
   D.   Abatement Of Penalties: The local tax administrator shall have the
authority to waive or abate any late filing penalty, late payment penalty or
failure to file penalty if the local tax administrator shall determine
reasonable cause exists for delay or failure to make a filing. (2012 Code)
3-5-11: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is thirty (30) days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) working days to cure any delinquency. If the
taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen (14) working day
period or fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment
contract with the local tax administrator, the installment contract shall be
canceled without further notice to the taxpayer. (2012 Code)
3-5-12: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
   A.   The village, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax
returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due
and owing. The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice
of the reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax
still due and owing.
   B.   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four (4)
years maximum after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   C.   If any tax return is not filed or if, during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
village, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due,
the statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was due, or end of
the calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed,
whichever occurs later.
   D.   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer. (2012 Code)
3-5-13: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month for all periods prior to
the filing of the application, but not more than four (4) years before the date
of filing the application. Except for the amount of tax and interest due under
this section, a taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure application may
not be liable for any additional tax interest, or penalty for any period before
the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer incorrectly
determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the
underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the
underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which
case, the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The payment of tax and
interest must be made no later than ninety (90) days after the filing of the
voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to by the local tax
administrator, whichever is longer. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer. (2012 Code)
3-5-14: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES; COPIES:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet will satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the village
clerk's office. (2012 Code)
3-5-15: REVIEW OF LIENS:
The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayer for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   A.   Timely remove the lien at the village's expense;
   B.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
   C.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (2012
Code)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Persons Subject To License
4-1-2: Application For License
4-1-3: Forms And Signatures
4-1-4: Bond Requirements
4-1-5: Fees
4-1-5-1: License Fee Schedule
4-1-6: Investigation Of Applicant
4-1-7: Approval Or Denial Of License
4-1-8: Business Vehicle Sticker
4-1-9: Term Of License; Renewals
4-1-10: Posting License
4-1-11: Location
4-1-12: Building And Premises Requirements
4-1-13: Nuisance Businesses
4-1-14: Working Conditions
4-1-15: Inspections And Analyses
4-1-16: Suspension Or Revocation Of License Or Permit
4-1-17: Appeals
4-1-18: Penalties
4-1-1: PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE:
Whenever, in this chapter or in any village ordinance, a license or occupancy
permit is required for the maintenance, operation or conduct of any business or
establishment, or for doing business, or engaging in any activity or
occupation, any person, firm or corporation shall be subject to the
requirement, if by himself or itself, or through an agent, employee or partner,
he or it is held forth as being engaged in the business, activity, or
occupation, or if he or it solicits patronage therefor, actively or passively,
or if he or it performs or attempts to perform any part of such business,
activity, or occupation in the village. (Ord. 80-52, 8-11-1980; amd. 2012 Code)
4-1-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
All persons, firms or corporations engaging in or conducting any of the
businesses or occupations enumerated and set forth in section
4-1-5-1 of this chapter shall make application for and be issued a license, and
otherwise be subject to the provisions of this code. Applications for licenses
and occupancy permits required by this chapter shall be made in writing to the
village clerk on forms to be provided by the village in the absence of
provision to the contrary. In addition to the requirement of this chapter, each
application shall contain: a) the name of the applicant; b) the permit or
license desired; c) the location to be used, if any; d) sales tax number; e)
the time period covered; and f) the fee to be paid. Each application shall
contain such additional information as may be needed for the proper evaluation
of such application by village officials. (Ord. 80-52, 8-11-1980; amd. 2012
Code)
4-1-3: FORMS AND SIGNATURES:
Forms for all licenses and permits, and applications therefor, shall be
prepared and kept on file by the village clerk. Each license or permit issued
shall bear the signature of the village administrator, with the village clerk's
signature attesting the administrator's signature, in the absence of any
provisions to the contrary. (Ord. 80-52, 8-11-1980; amd. 2012 Code)
4-1-4: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
In case the license requested shall be for an activity of a transitory nature
including, but not limited to, circuses, carnivals, street shows or other
activities which, in the judgment of the village administrator may cause the
accumulation of material on the site after the conclusion of the activity, the
village administrator may, in addition to the other requirements of this code,
require the posting of a cash or surety bond in an amount of ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) to guarantee the cleanup and restoration of the site
following the conclusion of such activities. Such bond shall be approved by the
village administrator and filed with the village clerk. (Ord. 80-52, 8-11-1980;
amd. 2012 Code)
4-1-5: FEES:
   A.   Required: No license or permit authorized or required by any provision
of this code shall be issued by the village clerk unless and until the
applicant pays the appropriate fee as designated in the schedule set forth in
section
4-1-5-1 of this chapter.
   B.   Proration: When an applicant has not engaged in the business or
activity until after the expiration of part of the current license year, the
license fee shall be prorated by quarters and the fee paid for each quarter or
fraction thereof during which the business or activity has been or will be
conducted.
   C.   Disposition: Except as otherwise provided, all license and permit fees
shall become a part of the corporate fund.
   D.   No Refunds: In no event shall any rebate or refund be made of any
license or permit fee or part thereof by reason of death or departure of the
licensee or permittee; nor shall any rebate or refund be made by reason of
nonuse of the license or discontinuance of the operation or conduct of the
licensed establishment, business or activity. (Ord. 80-52, 8-11-1980)
4-1-5-1: LICENSE FEE SCHEDULE:
Unless otherwise indicated or provided in this code, license and associated
fees for the businesses, occupations, uses and activities are set forth and
required as follows:
   BUSINESS LICENSE SCHEDULE OF FEES
Business License Classification Fee
Business License Classification                                       Fee
Ambulance service, per ambulance                                      $ 44.00
Amusements:                                                            
 Jukeboxes or other musical devices                                  82.50
 Public places of amusement:                                          
  Circus or sideshow, per day                                       110.00
  Commercial playground or amusement park                           550.00
  Theater (motion picture or dramatic):                              
      Theaters in a mall                                        220.00
      Seating capacity 1 to 1,000                               220.00
      Seating capacity over 1,000                               330.00
  Public skating rink                                               550.00
  Concerts of musical entertainment, per day                        110.00
Animal care:                                                           
 Kennel services                                                     110.00
 Grooming services                                                   44.00
Auctioneers:                                                           
 Per day                                                             44.00
 Per year                                                            1,100.00
Bakeries and bakery vehicles:                                          
 Wholesale bakery                                                    44.00
 Retail bakery                                                       44.00
 Per delivery vehicle                                                16.50
 Itinerant vendor of bakery products:                                16.50
  Per itinerant vendor delivery vehicle                             16.50
Banking facility                                                      44.00
Barbershops/salons:                                                   44.00
 For each chair more than 5 add                                      11.00
Billiard and pool halls, per table                                    82.50
Bowling alleys, per lane                                              27.50
Car wash                                                              275.00
Carnivals, per day                                                    110.00
Carters and expressmen:                                                
 For each vehicle - capacity not exceeding 3 tons                    27.50
 For each vehicle - capacity exceeding 3 tons                        82.50
Catering services and establishments:                                  
 Service location of establishment                                   44.00
 For each delivery vehicle                                           27.50
Chemical and paint stores (wholesale):                                 
 Paints and varnishes                                                275.00
 Explosives, corrosive chemicals, abrasives and other hazardous      550.00
  chemicals
Cold storage establishments                                           44.00
Delicatessens                                                         44.00
Dermal pigmentation establishment                                     44.00
Driving schools:                                                       
 Not more than 3 vehicles                                            44.00
 More than 3 vehicles                                                82.50
Exterminators (fumigation)                                            44.00
Fire extinguisher service and repair                                  44.00
Food delivery vehicles and mobile food dispensers                     44.00
Fruit and vegetable stores or stands                                  44.00
Funeral homes and undertaking establishments                          110.00
Game rooms:                                                            
 Less than 6 devices                                                 200.00
 Game room operator                                                  300.00
 Game rooms (mall/more than 6 devices)                               1,000.00
Garages (public parking)                                              44.00
Hotels and motels, per accommodation unit                             1.10
Itinerant merchants and transient vendors, per day                    44.00
Junk dealers and junk peddlers:                                        
 Junk peddler                                                        165.00
 For each vehicle                                                    165.00
Laboratories (nonmedical)                                             44.00
Laundry and dry cleaning establishments                               44.00
Laundry and dry cleaning establishments (self-service/coin operated), 5.50
per machine
Livery stable                                                         44.00
Lumberyards and lumber storehouse                                     220.00
Machine shops                                                         44.00
Massage establishments:                                                
 Original application                                                400.00
 Renewal                                                             200.00
Motor fuel sales, per hose                                            5.50
Motor vehicle dealers:                                                 
 Gross floor and/or lot area in square feet:                          
     0 - 20,000                                                  55.00
     20,001 - 39,000                                             110.00
     39,001 - 70,000                                             165.00
     70,001 - 100,000                                            220.00
     100,001 and over                                            275.00
Motor vehicle repair establishments:                                   
 Not more than 3 persons engaged                                     165.00
 Each additional person                                              44.00
Nursery school/daycare center                                         55.00
Peddlers:                                                              
 Operating from a pack, basket, wagon cart (per day)                 44.00
 Operating from a motor vehicle (per day)                            44.00
Printing shops                                                        44.00
Radio and television sales and service                                55.00
Restaurants:                                                           
 Gross floor area in square feet:                                     
     0 - 1,000                                                   55.00
     1,001 - 2,000                                               82.50
     2,001 - 4,000                                               110.00
     4,001 - 6,000                                               220.00
     6,001 - 8,000                                               330.00
     8,001 - 10,000                                              440.00
     10,001 - 15,000                                             550.00
     15,001 and over                                             660.00
Retailers:                                                             
 Gross floor area in square feet:                                     
     0 - 2,500                                                   55.00
     2,501 - 10,000                                              110.00
     10,001 - 20,000                                             220.00
     20,001 - 30,000                                             330.00
     30,001 - 50,000                                             550.00
     50,001 and over                                             825.00
Scavengers                                                            165.00
Solid fuel and fuel oil dealers                                       44.00
Taxicabs and limousines:                                              44.00
 For each vehicle                                                    27.50
 For each operator                                                   5.50
Ticket sellers:                                                        
  Theatricals, shows, amusements, athletic events and other
 exhibitions dealing from a place other than a theater or location   82.50
  where the show, event or exhibit is given
Tobacco dealers:                                                       
 Wholesale                                                           330.00
 Vending, per machine                                                44.00
 Nonvending machines (OTC)                                           55.00
Vending machines, coin operated                                       44.00
 
(Ord. 2009-43, 10-26-2009, eff. 1-1-2010; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2022-28, 6-13-
2022)
4-1-6: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
Upon receipt of any application for a license or permit, within forty eight
(48) hours thereafter, the Village Clerk shall refer such application to the
Building Commissioner and other appropriate officials of the Village, and shall
notify the Fire Chief of the Bloomingdale Fire Protection District, the Chief
of Police, and the DuPage County Health Department, where inspection or
investigation by their respective offices is required by statute or ordinance,
or is warranted by the circumstances. The officer charged with the duty of
making the investigation or inspection shall file a report thereon within ten
(10) days after receipt of such application. The Village Clerk shall be charged
with the duty to assure the timely filing of such reports. Upon receipt of all
related investigative reports, the Village Clerk shall forward such reports,
together with the application, to the Village Administrator for approval. (Ord.
80-52, 8-11-1980; amd. Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
4-1-7: APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Denial: If, after due consideration of the information contained within
the application and after due consideration of the related investigative
reports, the applicant's character, business responsibility, or other matters
concerning the application are found to be unsatisfactory, the Village
Administrator shall disapprove such application, indicating the reasons
therefor in writing. Thereupon, the Village Clerk shall be directed to promptly
notify the applicant that his application is disapproved, giving the reasons
therefor, and that no license or permit shall be issued.
   B.   Approval: If, after due consideration of the information contained
within the application and after due consideration of the related investigative
reports, the applicant's character, business responsibility, and other matters
concerning the application are found to be satisfactory, the license or permit
shall be approved by the Village Administrator, and the Village Clerk shall be
directed to promptly notify the applicant that such application is approved.
Thereupon, the license or permit may be issued by the Village Clerk upon
payment of the appropriate fee. No business license or permit, whether new or
renewal, shall be issued, nor shall such license or permit be valid, without
express approval of the Village Administrator. (Ord. 80-52, 8-11-1980)
4-1-8: BUSINESS VEHICLE STICKER:
Whenever the number of vehicles used is the basis, in whole or in part, for a
license fee, the Village Clerk shall furnish the licensee with a tag or sticker
for each vehicle covered by the license, and such tag or sticker shall be
posted or affixed in a conspicuous place on each such vehicle. (Ord. 80-52, 8-
11-1980)
4-1-9: TERM OF LICENSE; RENEWALS:
   A.   All annual licenses shall be operative and the license year for the
Village shall commence on May 1 of each year and shall terminate on April 30 of
the following year, where no provision to the contrary is made.
   B.   The village clerk shall notify all licensees in the village of the time
of expiration of the license held by the licensee (if an annual) three (3)
weeks prior to the date of such expiration. Provided, however, that a failure
to make such notification or the failure of the licensee to receive it shall
not excuse the licensee from the obligation to obtain a new license, or a
renewal thereof, nor shall it be a defense in an action based upon operation
without a license. (Ord. 80-52, 8-11-1980)
4-1-10: POSTING LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of every person conducting a licensed business in the
village to keep his license posted at all times in a prominent place on the
premises used for such business. (Ord. 80-52, 8-11-1980)
4-1-11: LOCATION:
   A.   Requirements And Restrictions: No license for the operation of a
business or establishment in the village shall be construed to permit the
operation of a licensed business or establishment in more than one location in
the village, and a separate license shall be required for each location of a
licensed establishment. For the purposes of this subsection, the existence of a
single location shall be evidenced by the fact that all buildings containing
the principal or accessory uses shall be connected or shall be located on the
same lot or parcel, shall be operated and managed by the same person or owner,
and shall be an establishment with the same classification.
   B.   Change Of Location: The location of any licensed business or
occupation, or the location of any permitted act, may be changed; provided,
that ten (10) days' notice thereof is given to the village clerk in the absence
of any provision to the contrary; provided, however, that there shall be
compliance with all applicable ordinances and regulations of the village. (Ord.
80-52, 8-11-1980)
4-1-12: BUILDING AND PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, and no
permit shall be issued for any purpose or activity, if the premises and
building to be used for the purpose do not fully comply with all ordinances and
regulations of the village. (Ord. 80-52, 8-11-1980)
   B.   No business license is to be issued without an approved field
inspection report for the business premises. (Ord. 2009-43, 10-26-2009, eff. 1-
1-2010)
4-1-13: NUISANCE BUSINESSES:
   A.   Prohibited Generally:
      1.   No business or establishment, whether or not licensed, shall be so
conducted or operated as to constitute a nuisance in fact.
      2.   No building, vehicle, structure, yard, lot, premises, or parts
thereof, shall be used, kept, maintained, or operated in connection with any
business or establishment so as to constitute a nuisance, or in such a manner
that it is dangerous to life or detrimental to health.
   B.   Unsafe Or Unhealthy Business:
      1.   No building or structure, utilized, constructed, or maintained in
connection with any business or occupation, shall evidence an unsanitary,
unsafe, or dangerous condition.
      2.   No substance, matter, or thing of any kind whatever, which shall be
dangerous or detrimental to health, shall be allowed to exist in connection
with any business or occupation, or be used in any work or labor performed in
the village.
   C.   Refuse Disposal 1 :
      1.   Containers:
         a.   Required: The occupant of every building, structure, or premises
used or maintained in connection with any business or occupation shall provide
and maintain in good condition and repair a sufficient number of refuse
containers for the temporary storage of all refuse which may accumulate between
collections.
         b.   Specifications: The standard refuse container required by this
section shall be a receptacle of not less than twenty (20) nor more than thirty
two (32) gallons' capacity, of impervious material and sturdy construction,
with a tightfitting cover, and equipped with handles properly placed to
facilitate handling.
      2.   Removal Of Refuse:
         a.   Required: It shall be the duty of the occupant of every building,
structure or premises used or maintained in connection with any business or
occupation to cause to be removed, at his own cost and expense, at least once
each week, all refuse produced therein.
         b.   Removal Of Restaurant Garbage: Every person owning or controlling
any hotel, restaurant, cafe, or retail food establishment where more than
thirty two (32) gallons of refuse is normally produced weekly shall cause all
garbage to be placed in sanitary refuse containers and shall cause all
substances deposited in such containers to be removed daily from his premises
and to be disposed of at his own expense. (Ord. 80-52, 8-11-1980)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 5, chapter 2 of this code.
4-1-14: WORKING CONDITIONS:
   A.   General Health And Sanitation Requirements:
      1.   No owner, lessee, manager, or superintendent of any store, factory,
workshop, or other place where persons are employed shall cause or permit such
place, or any room or part thereof, to be overcrowded or inadequate or faulty
in respect to light, ventilation, heat, or cleanliness.
      2.   All such places of employment shall be kept in a clean condition,
free from the effluvia of a sewer, drain, privy, stable, or other nuisance;
also, as far as practicable, from all gases, vapors, dust, or other impurities
generated by manufacturing processes or otherwise which are injurious to
health. Sufficient and separate washrooms for male and female employees shall
be provided, and such washrooms shall be properly ventilated.
   B.   Heat:
      1.   It shall be the duty of every person owning or controlling the
heating plant which furnishes heat to any factory or workshop to maintain a
temperature within such factory or workshop of not less than sixty eight
degrees Fahrenheit (68°F) without such undue restriction of ventilation as to
interfere with proper sanitary conditions therein; provided, however, that this
requirement shall not apply to any factory or workshop where the business
conducted therein is of such a nature that a higher or lower temperature than
sixty eight degrees Fahrenheit (68°F) is necessary or expedient for the work or
manufacturing processes of such business.
      2.   It shall be the duty of any person owning or controlling the heating
plant which furnishes heat to any office, store, or other place of employment
to maintain a temperature therein of not less than sixty eight degrees
Fahrenheit (68°F) without such undue restriction of ventilation as to interfere
with proper sanitary conditions therein, between the hours of eight o'clock (8:
00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. from October 1 of each year to June 1 of
the succeeding year, Sundays and legal holidays excepted.
   C.   Inspections: The DuPage County health department and the building and
zoning official of the village shall visit or cause to be visited all such
places of employment in the village as often as they shall deem necessary to
assure compliance with the provisions of this section, and to have such
arrangements made as may be deemed necessary for the health and safety of the
employees. (Ord. 80-52, 8-11-1980)
4-1-15: INSPECTIONS AND ANALYSES:
   A.   Inspections:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the building and zoning official to inspect
or cause to be inspected from time to time all businesses, firms, and
establishments licensed by the village in order to determine and assure
compliance with the provisions of applicable ordinances, regulations, and
statutes. The building and zoning official shall engage the services of the
police department, fire protection district or any and all other departments of
the village, county and state, as the case may be. Inspections shall be
conducted for the purpose of, but shall not be limited to, facilitating the
processing of applications for renewal of licenses and permits. (Ord. 80-52, 8-
11-1980; amd. 2012 Code)
      2.   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with
the operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required
by ordinance, or are reasonably necessary to assure compliance with the
provisions of any ordinance or regulation of the village, or to detect
violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee or the person in
charge of the premises to admit thereto for the purpose of making the
inspection any officer or employee of the village who is duly authorized to
make such inspection at any reasonable time that such admission or entry is
requested.
   B.   Analyses: Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is
reasonably necessary to assure compliance with the provisions of any ordinance
or regulation, or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the
licensee or the person in charge of the premises to give to any duly authorized
officer or employee of the village requesting the same sufficient samples of
such material or commodity for such analysis upon official request.
   C.   Failure To Permit Inspections And Analyses: In addition to any other
penalty which may be provided, the village president may revoke the license of
any owner or operator of a licensed business in the village who refuses to
permit any duly authorized officer or employee to make such inspection or to
take an adequate sample of said commodity, or who interferes with such officer
or employee while in the performance of his duties; provided, however, that no
license shall be subject to revocation for such cause unless such officer or
employee has been refused permission to enter upon the premises in the name of
the village after first having presented a warrant authorizing such entry.
(Ord. 80-52, 8-11-1980)
4-1-16: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT:
Except as otherwise provided in this title:
   A.   Summary Suspension:
      1.   When the conduct or operation of any business or establishment,
whether or not licensed, shall constitute a nuisance in fact and a clear and
present danger to the public health, safety or general welfare, the village
president shall be authorized to summarily order the cessation of business, the
closing of the premises, and the suspension of any license or permit for a
period not to exceed ten (10) days.
      2.   Within five (5) days after he has so acted, the village president
shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not the license
or permit should be revoked.
   B.   Revocation Of Licenses And Permits:
      1.   Grounds: Licenses and permits issued under the ordinances of the
village, unless otherwise provided, may be revoked by the village president
after notice and hearing as provided in subsection B3 of this section for any
of the following causes:
         a.   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for the license or permit;
         b.   Any violation by the licensee or permittee of ordinance
provisions relating to the license or permit, the subject matter of the license
or permit, or the premises occupied;
         c.   Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any felony or of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
         d.   Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fine or penalty
owing to the village;
         e.   Refusal to permit an inspection or sampling, or any interference
with a duly authorized village officer or employee while in the performance of
his duties in making such inspections, as provided in section
4-1-15 of this chapter.
      2.   Additional Sanctions: Such revocation, if ordered, shall not exclude
prosecution and imposition of any other penalties provided for the violation of
other applicable ordinances of the village.
      3.   Hearing:
         a.   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license or permit shall
be given in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and
the time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be sent by certified mail
(return receipt requested) to the licensee or permittee at his last known
address at least five (5) days prior to the date set for the hearing. (Ord. 80-
52, 8-11-1980)
         b.   At the hearing, the village prosecutor shall present the
complaint and shall represent the village. The licensee or permittee shall be
permitted counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross examine
witnesses. The village president shall preside and shall render the decision.
(Ord. 80-52, 8-11-1980; amd. 2012 Code)
4-1-17: APPEALS:
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the village administrator in regard to
the denial of an application for a business license, as provided in section
4-1-7 of this chapter, or in connection with the revocation of a license or
permit, as provided in section
4-1-16 of this chapter, shall have the right to appeal to the board of
trustees. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the village clerk, within
ten (10) days after notice of a denial of an application or a revocation of a
license or permit, a written statement under oath setting forth specifically
the grounds for appeal. The board of trustees shall thereupon set the time and
place for a hearing on such appeal, and notice of such hearing shall be given
to the applicant or licensee or permittee in the same manner as provided in
section
4-1-16 of this chapter. The decision of the board of trustees on such appeal
shall be final. (Ord. 80-52, 8-11-1980)
4-1-18: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms and provisions of this
chapter, or operating a business within the village for which a business
license is required by this chapter, shall be liable for a penalty in the
amount of one hundred percent (100%) of any unpaid license fee and, in
addition, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2009-43, 10-26-2009, eff. 1-1-2010; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
4-2-1: Village Policy
4-2-2: Definitions
4-2-3: Local Liquor Control Commissioner
4-2-4: License Required; Exemptions
4-2-5: Ineligibility For License
4-2-6: Application For License
4-2-6-1: Application Fee
4-2-7: Insurance Required
4-2-8: Classification Of Licenses; Fees
4-2-9: Payment, Disposition And Proration Of Fees
4-2-10: Number Of Licenses
4-2-11: Term Of License
4-2-12: Nontransferability Of License
4-2-13: Display Of License
4-2-14: Change Of Location Or Ownership
4-2-15: Renewal Of License; Late Filing Fee
4-2-16: Hours Of Operation
4-2-17: Happy Hours Prohibited
4-2-18: Location Restrictions
4-2-19: Clear View Of Premises; Lighting
4-2-20: Sanitary Conditions
4-2-21: Sales To Intoxicated Persons Prohibited
4-2-22: Minors
4-2-22-1: Responsibility Of Parents Or Guardian
4-2-23: Prohibited Conduct
4-2-24: Right Of Entry
4-2-25: Examination Of Books And Records
4-2-26: Records And Notices
4-2-27: Revocation Or Suspension Of License; Fines; Appeals
4-2-28: Responsibility Of Licensee For Employee Actions
4-2-29: Instructional Program For Personnel; Attendance Required
4-2-30: Penalty
4-2-1: VILLAGE POLICY:
   A.   It is the policy of the village to limit the sale of alcoholic liquor
at retail primarily to the sale in its original package or by restaurants,
lounges, organized clubs, recreational facilities, or hotels. It is not deemed
conducive to the promotion of this public policy to allow the sale of alcoholic
liquor at retail for consumption on the premises where such sale is the sole or
primary business to be conducted within the village.
   B.   Further, it is the policy of the village to limit the purchase,
consumption, or possession of alcoholic liquor to persons of the age of twenty
one (21) years or older; and to prevent intoxication, disorderly conduct,
trespasses, unruly disturbances at public or private assemblies, traffic
accidents, and similar conduct that often results from the purchase,
consumption or possession of alcoholic liquor by persons under the lawful age.
(Ord. 2003-40, 10-27-2003)
4-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
Except where otherwise provided herein, all words and phrases used in this
chapter which are defined in the liquor control act of 1934, an act relating to
alcoholic liquors, approved January 31, 1934, as amended 1 , shall have the
meanings accorded to such words and phrases in said act. (Ord. 2003-40, 10-27-
2003)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS.
4-2-3: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
   A.   Village President Serve As: The village president is hereby designated
as local liquor control commissioner of the village and is charged with the
administration of the applicable provisions of the Illinois liquor control act
1 , and the provisions of this chapter, as well as such other ordinances and
resolutions relating to alcoholic liquor as may be enacted from time to time by
the village.
   B.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   As local liquor control commissioner, the village president may
appoint a person or persons, or any committee or other agency, to assist in the
exercise of powers and the performance of the duties as provided by law for
local liquor control commissioners.
      2.   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the following
powers and duties with respect to local liquor licenses, in addition to any
other powers and duties established by law:
         a.   To grant and/or suspend for not more than thirty (30) days or to
revoke for cause all local licenses issued to persons or entities for premises
within the Village.
         b.   To receive complaint(s) from any citizen within the Village that
any provision of State law or of this chapter has been or is being violated and
to act upon such complaint(s) in the manner provided by law.
         c.   To receive local license fees and deposit same to the credit of
the Village.
         d.   To examine, or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant
for a local license or for a renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom a
citation proceeding has been instituted by the State of Illinois Liquor Control
Commission; to examine, or cause to be examined, the books and records of any
such applicant or licensee and to hear testimony and take evidence for his
information in the performance of his duties, and for such purposes, to issue
subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of this State. For the purpose
of obtaining any of the information desired by the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner under this subsection, he may authorize his agent to act on his
behalf.
         e.   To order, by issuance of a written order, any licensed premises
closed for not more than seven (7) days, giving the licensee an opportunity to
be heard during that period, if the Local Liquor Control Commissioner has
reason to believe that any continued operation of a particular licensed
premises will immediately threaten the welfare of the Village, except if such
licensee shall also be engaged in the conduct of another business or businesses
on the licensed premises, such order shall not be applicable to such other
business or businesses. (Ord. 2003-40, 10-27-2003)
   C.   Qualified Appointee: The Village President at his/her discretion may
appoint a qualified individual to serve in his/her place as the Liquor Control
Commissioner with advice and consent of the Board of Trustees, pursuant to the
following:
      1.   The appointment shall be for a one-year period,
      2.   The appointee shall be an attorney with an active license to
practice law in the State of Illinois,
      3.   The appointee shall not legally represent liquor license applicants
or holders before the Village of Bloomingdale or before an adjacent
jurisdiction,
      4.   The appointee shall not have an interest in the manufacture, sale,
or distribution of alcoholic liquor, and
      5.   The appointee shall not be appointed to a term to exceed the term of
the Village President.
   D.   Compensation: The Village President or Qualified Appointee serving in
his/her place as the Liquor Control Commissioner shall receive the following
compensation:
 
Effective Date  Compensation
                $100.00 per month in the form of a monthly stipend check, in
January 1, 2023 accordance with the Village's usual and customary payroll
                practices
 
(Ord. 2018-19, 4-23-2018; amd. Ord. 2022-49, 11-14-2022)
 
Notes
1 2. 235 ILCS 5/4-2 et seq.
4-2-4: LICENSE REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to manufacture,
bottle, blend, sell, barter, transport, deliver, furnish, or give away any
alcoholic liquor for beverage purposes without first having been issued a
license for such purpose by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner; provided,
however, nothing herein contained shall prevent the possession and
transportation of alcoholic liquor for the personal use of the possessor, his
family and guests, nor prevent the making of wine, cider or other alcoholic
liquor by a person from fruits, vegetables or grains, or the products thereof,
by simple fermentation and without distillation, if it is made solely for the
use of the maker, his family and guests; and provided further, that nothing
herein contained shall prevent any duly licensed practicing physician or
dentist from possessing or using alcoholic liquor for the treatment of bona
fide patients of a hospital or other institution; and provided further, that
any drugstore employing a licensed pharmacist may possess and use alcoholic
liquors in the concoction of prescriptions of duly licensed physicians; and
provided further, that the possession and dispension of wine by an authorized
representative of any church for the purpose of conducting any bona fide rite
or religious ceremony conducted by such church shall not be prohibited by this
chapter. (Ord. 2003-40, 10-27-2003)
4-2-5: INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE:
No retail liquor dealer's license shall be issued, renewed, or continued in
existence for:
   A.   A person who is not a resident of the Village.
   B.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he resides.
   C.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
   D.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any Federal or State
law, unless the Local Liquor Control Commissioner determines that such person
has been sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public trust after
considering matters set forth in such person's application and the
Commissioner's investigation. The burden of proof of sufficient rehabilitation
shall be on the applicant.
   E.   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill fame.
   F.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
   G.   A person whose license issued under the Illinois Liquor Control Act or
this chapter has been revoked for cause.
   H.   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
   I.   A copartnership, if any general partnership thereof, or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than five percent (5%) of the aggregate
limited partnership interest in such copartnership would not be eligible to
receive a license hereunder for any reason.
   J.   A corporation or limited liability company, if any member, officer,
manager or director thereof, or any stockholder or stockholders owning in the
aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the stock of such corporation, would
not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason other than
citizenship and residence within the village.
   K.   A corporation or limited liability company unless it is incorporated or
organized in Illinois, or unless it is a foreign corporation or foreign limited
liability company which is qualified under the business corporation act of 1983
or the limited liability company act to transact business in Illinois.
   L.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent,
unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required by the
licensee.
   M.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the effective date of the local liquor control act or has
forfeited his bond to appear in court to answer charges for any such violation.
   N.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a license
is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the
license is to be issued.
   O.   A member of the village board of trustees may have a direct interest in
the manufacture, sale, or distribution of alcoholic liquor as long as he or she
is not a law enforcing public official and the sale of the alcoholic liquor
pursuant to the license is incidental to and not the primary use. To prevent
any conflict of interest, the elected official with the direct interest in the
manufacture, sale, or distribution of alcoholic liquor cannot participate in
any meetings, hearings, or decisions on matters impacting the manufacture,
sale, or distribution of alcoholic liquor with respect to said liquor license
or any liquor license of the same classification. Furthermore, the Village
President may have the same interest in the manufacture, sale, or distribution
of alcoholic liquor as long as the village board has made a local liquor
control commissioner appointment which complies with the requirements of the
Illinois Liquor Control Act as may be amended.
   P.   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee.
   Q.   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as proscribed by
any of the subsections (a)(3) through (a)(11) of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/28-1, or as proscribed by 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-3, as
heretofore or hereafter amended, or as proscribed by a statute replacing any of
the aforesaid statutory provisions.
   R.   A person or entity to whom a federal wagering stamp has been issued by
the federal government, unless the person or entity is eligible to be issued a
license under the raffles act 1  or the Illinois pull tabs and jar games act 2
.
   S.   A person who intends to sell alcoholic liquors for use or consumption
on his or her licensed retail premises who does not have liquor liability
insurance coverage for that premises in an amount that is at least equal to the
maximum liability amounts set out in 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-21,
subsection (a). (2012 Code; amd. Ord. 2021-04, 1-25-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.
2 2. 230 ILCS 20/1 et seq.
4-2-6: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Contents: Written application for a retail liquor dealer's license
shall be addressed to the local liquor control commissioner and filed with the
village clerk, signed by the applicant if an individual, or by all partners if
the applicant shall be a corporation, verified by oath or affidavit, and shall
contain the statements and information as set forth in this subsection. For the
purposes of the requirements set forth in this section, the term "applicant",
as used in this subsection, shall include any and all persons, including
corporations, required to be identified in subsection A1 of this section.
      1.   For all applicants (including partners, stockholders, managers,
agents and bartenders as set forth below), the full name, including middle
initial, date of birth, home and work addresses and home and work phone
numbers, and social security numbers; in the case of a partnership, the persons
entitled to share in the profits thereof; in the case of a corporation, the
date of incorporation, the state of incorporation, and if such state be other
than Illinois, upon which the corporation was certified as a foreign
corporation entitled to conduct business in the state of Illinois, the names
and addresses of the officers and directors, the names and addresses of all
stockholders if the total number of stockholders is twenty (20) or less, but if
the total number of stockholders is more than twenty (20), only those
stockholders owning more than a five percent (5%) interest in the corporation
shall be required to be listed; in all cases, the names of and information
required in this section and section
4-2-5 of this chapter for any and all managers or agents conducting the
business and bartenders.
      2.   Citizenship of applicant and place of birth; and if a naturalized
citizen, the time and place of naturalization.
      3.   Character of business of the applicant; and in the case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed.
      4.   Length of time the applicant has been in business of that character;
or in the case of a corporation, the date when its charter was issued, and a
copy of the articles of incorporation.
      5.   Amount and nature of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the
time application is made.
      6.   Location and description of the premises or place of business which
is to be operated under such license.
      7.   Statement whether or not any applicant has made application for a
similar or other license on premises other than that described in the
application and the disposition of such other application.
      8.   Statement whether or not any applicant has ever been convicted of a
felony or is otherwise disqualified to receive a license by reason of any
matter or thing contained in this chapter or any other ordinance of the
village, or contained in the laws of the state of Illinois.
      9.   Statement whether or not any applicant's previous license issued by
any state or subdivision thereof or by the federal government has been revoked
and the reasons therefor.
      10.   Statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of
the state of Illinois, or of the United States, or any ordinance of the village
in the conduct of his place of business.
      11.   Evidence that the applicant has in force the insurance required by
statute and this chapter. (Ord. 2003-40, 10-27-2003)
   B.   Form; Review; Compliance: Applications for a retail liquor dealer's
license shall be on a form consistent with the terms of this chapter and
available from the village clerk. A copy of every completed application for a
retail liquor dealer's license shall be forwarded by the village clerk, upon
receipt, to the local liquor control commissioner and to the village
administrator and the police department for their review, the results of which
shall be promptly forwarded to the local liquor control commissioner. No
license shall be issued of any class by the local liquor control commissioner
unless the application complies with all requirements of this chapter and the
laws of the state of Illinois.
   C.   Service Fee; Legal, Planning And Consultant Fees: In the event that an
applicant seeks a new liquor license classification or an amendment to an
existing classification, the applicant shall pay a five hundred dollar
($500.00) service fee. The applicant is further responsible for any consultant
review fees incurred by the village in excess of the initial service fee. No
consideration shall be given to a new application for a new liquor license
classification or amendment to an existing classification until such service
fee is paid, and no license shall be granted to the applicant upon approval of
the classification or amendment until such time as the applicant has paid all
legal, planning and consulting fees. (Ord. 2009-35, 9-29-2009)
4-2-6-1: APPLICATION FEE:
Each application for a new liquor license shall be accompanied by an
application fee in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) to cover
administrative costs in the review of said initial application. There shall be
no application fee due for license classes C and T and a Family Fest
supplemental license. (Ord. 2009-35, 9-29-2009)
4-2-7: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
No license shall be issued hereunder unless the applicant shall file with his
application a certificate by an insurance company authorized to do business in
the state of Illinois, certifying that the applicant has in force and in effect
insurance sufficient to cover the limits of liability established by 235
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-21 for the full term of the license period, and
any other statutory requirement or requirements under local ordinances. Such
evidence shall be submitted yearly for license renewal, and the insurance shall
be kept in effect constantly during the existence of the license. Each such
policy of insurance shall contain a provision requiring thirty (30) days' prior
notice to the local liquor control commissioner before it can be canceled by
the insurance company, and that provision shall be indicated on all
certificates of insurance required herein. (Ord. 2003-40, 10-27-2003)
4-2-8: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES; FEES:
There shall be the following classes of licenses with the respective fees as
indicated:
   A.   License Classifications for on premises consumption:
      1.   Class D, Dining: A class D license permits the retail sale of
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where sold and not for
resale in any form. Such licenses shall only be issued to dining establishments
where the service of alcoholic beverages is ancillary and incidental to service
of food.
         a.   D-1, Beer And Wine Only: Sale in the original package for
consumption off the premises is prohibited. Such licenses shall only be issued
to a dining establishment with ten (10) to one hundred forty (140) seats; seats
in excess of one hundred forty (140) (excluding outdoor seating) are subject to
additional fees as noted in subsection B3a(1) of this section. The annual fee
for such license shall be one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
         b.   D-2, Full Liquor Service: Sale in the original package for
consumption off the premises is prohibited, except under recorking permission
noted in subsection B3b of this section. Such licenses shall only be issued to
dining establishments with ten (10) to one hundred forty (140) seats (excluding
outdoor seating); seats in excess of one hundred forty (140) (excluding outdoor
seating) are subject to additional fees as noted in subsection B3a(1) of this
section. The annual fee for such license shall be one thousand seven hundred
fifty dollars ($1,750.00). Dining establishments with a special use permit for
amusement games are subject to an additional fee as noted under subsection B3a
(4) of this section.
         c.   Additional Services, Limitations And Fees:
         (1)   Additional License Fees:
            (a)   Dining establishments with a dining area in excess of one
hundred forty (140) seats (excluding outdoor seating) are subject to an
additional license fee of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
            (b)   Dining establishments with a D-2 full liquor license may
request extended closing hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M., Monday through
Friday, and two o'clock (2:00) A.M., Saturday and Sunday, for an additional
license fee of five hundred dollars ($500.00).
            (c)   Dining establishments with full liquor and dining area in
excess of one hundred forty (140) seats (excluding outdoor seating) may request
extended closing hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M., Monday through Friday, and
three o'clock (3:00) A.M., Saturday and Sunday, for an additional license fee
of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
            (d)   Dining establishments with full liquor and a special use
permit for amusement devices are required to pay an additional license fee of
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
            (e)   Dining establishments with full liquor and a special use
permit for live entertainment and/or dancing (excluding strolling musicians and
smaller musical ensembles) are required to pay an additional license fee of
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
            (f)   Dining establishments with a D-2 full liquor license may
request "To Go" mixed drinks/cocktails and single servings of wine for an
additional license fee of five hundred dollars ($750.00). Such sales and
delivery require a State of Illinois Retailer Combined 1A Liquor License and
rights terminate when the State liquor license category expires. The sale and
delivery of "To Go" mixed drinks/cocktails and single servings of wine are
further subject to the terms as conditions set forth by the State of Illinois
Retailer Combined 1A liquor license, regarding but not limited to the
following:
            i.   The use of a new/unused rigid container, what material it is
made of and how it is to be filled and sealed.
            ii.   Information required on each drink label.
            iii.   How sealed drink containers can be delivered to the
consumer, either over the counter; curbside delivery by the retailer's
employee; or by a home delivery by the retailer employee.
            iv.   Means of delivery that are prohibited (drive-through, or
delivery by third-party company).
            v.   Employee age and BASSET training requirements.
         (2)   Sealing And Removal Of Open Wine Bottles From Restaurants;
Recorking: Dining establishments with a class D liquor license may permit a
patron to remove one unsealed and partially consumed bottle of wine for off
premises consumption, provided said patron purchased a meal and consumed a
portion of the bottle of wine with the meal on the restaurant premises. The
licensee shall provide a dated receipt for the bottle of wine to the patron.
The partially consumed bottle of wine must be securely sealed by the licensee
prior to removal from the premises and placed in a transparent, onetime use,
tamperproof bag.
         (3)   Bring Your Own Bottle "BYOB": Patrons of dining establishments
are prohibited from bringing in their own bottles of alcoholic beverages for
consumption on dining establishment premises without a class D-2 liquor
license. Patrons are permitted to bring a bottle of wine into dining
establishments with a class D-2 liquor license, subject to the approval and any
applicable "corking fee" of the class D-2 dining establishment, and provided
said wine bottle is opened by and served by waitstaff in accordance with this
chapter.
      2.   Class G, Golf Course And Clubhouse: A class G license permits the
retail sale of liquor for consumption only on the premises where sold in
conjunction with the operation of a golf course and clubhouse. The annual fee
for such license shall be two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
      3.   Class C, Churches, Civic Groups And Clubs: A class C license permits
the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption only on the premises of
churches, not for profit civic groups or organized clubs, such sales to be made
only to members of said church, civic group or club and their guests. The
annual fee for such license shall be based on the number of members in place at
the time of issuance, as follows, and shall be subject to change upon renewal
of such license; for: (i) Churches and civic groups the annual fee shall be
$0.00; (ii) Clubs 500 members or less the annual fee shall be $500.00; and
(iii) Clubs over 500 members the annual fee shall be $1,000.00.
      The number of members shall be furnished by a sworn statement by an
officer of the club, indicating the number of members in good standing at the
time of application, or at the time of renewal of said license. If, during the
term of the license, the membership decreases to a lower fee, there shall be no
refund of license fees paid for that year. No class C license shall be issued
until it has been determined by the local liquor control commissioner that the
entity applying for the license is organized for some purpose or object other
than the sale or consumption of alcoholic liquor.
      4.   Class H, Hotel: A class H license permits the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor for consumption only on the premises where sold, where such
establishment is located within a hotel or under separate ownership within a
resort and is limited to a single location within the facility. A class H
license shall also permit the retail sale of packaged beer and wine at the
front hotel reception desk. All packaged beer and wine shall be contained
within an enclosed area not to exceed thirty five (35) cubic feet, with said
inventory and sale under direct and constant supervision of an employee of the
hotel who is twenty one (21) years of age and BASSET certified. All beer and
wine inventory must be properly secured when not under direct supervision. The
annual fee for such license shall be one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for a
lounge with a maximum seating capacity of fifty (50) persons, and one thousand
seven hundred fifty dollars ($1,750.00) for a lounge with a seating capacity in
excess of fifty (50) persons.
      5.   Class R, Resort: A class R license permits the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor for consumption at more than one location on the premises
within the resort facility, including, but not limited to: golf course,
restaurants, banquet facilities, room service, and in room minibars. A class R
license shall also permit the retail sale of wine in sealed bottles within the
resort, resort restaurants and pro shop, for consumption either on or off the
premises where sold. Off site promotion of said packaged wine sales is strictly
prohibited. The annual license fee shall be the sum of five thousand dollars
($5,000.00), plus the sum of six hundred dollars ($600.00) for each principal
location upon the premises from which any alcoholic liquor is sold at retail.
      6.   Class E, Entertainment: A class E entertainment license permits the
retail sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where sold
and not for resale in any form. Sale in the original package for consumption
off the premises is prohibited. Such licenses shall only be issued to
establishments with a total floor area equal to or greater than thirty five
thousand (35,000) square feet, with a special use permit for game rooms and/or
live entertainment, and where the service of alcoholic beverages is ancillary
and incidental to entertainment services.
         a.   E-1, beer and wine only: The annual fee for such license shall be
two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
         b.   E-2, full liquor service: The annual fee for such license shall
be three thousand two hundred fifty dollars ($3,250.00).
      7.   Class MT, Movie Theater: A Class MT movie theater license permits
the retail sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where
sold and not for resale in any form. Sale in the original package for
consumption off the premises is prohibited. Such licenses shall only be issued
to establishments with a total floor area equal to or greater than fifty
thousand (50,000) square feet, with the primary purpose of showing films with a
minimum of sixteen (16) individual theaters, and where the service of alcoholic
beverages is ancillary and incidental to movie theater.
         a.   MT-1, beer and wine only: The annual fee for such license shall
be two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
         b.   MT-2, full liquor service: The annual fee for such license shall
be three thousand two hundred fifty dollars ($3,250.00).
      8.   Class F, Funeral:
         a.   A Class F license authorizes the retail sale of alcoholic liquor
with meal service for consumption only on the premises of a funeral
establishment subject to the following conditions:
         (1)   The holder of a Class F license must hold a current license as a
funeral director or funeral director and embalmer issued by the Illinois
Department of Financial and Professional Regulation pursuant to 224 ILCS 51/1-
1, et seq.;
         (2)   The holder of a Class F license must own, lease or hold a
beneficial interest in the ownership of the funeral establishment;
         (3)   The business activities of the funeral establishment shall be
limited to the shelter, care, custody and preparation of deceased human bodies
and the hosting of funeral services, memorial services or wakes;
         (4)   Alcoholic liquor may only be served to the attendees of funeral
services, memorial services, or wakes, and only while such events are in
progress and not before the hour of eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. or after the
hour of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. on each day;
         (5)   Each funeral service, memorial service or wake at which
alcoholic liquor is served or sold must be prearranged under the sponsorship of
a particular person, group of persons, or organization; and alcoholic liquor
must be served under the oversight of a holder of a valid local liquor license
that also holds a State of Illinois liquor license;
         (6)   No alcoholic liquor shall be provided by a caterer as part of a
meal package or otherwise unless the caterer is the holder of a valid Village
of Bloomingdale Class T liquor license.
         b.   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
         (1)   Funeral Directing: Conducting or engaging in the practice of
preparing for the burial, cremation, or disposition and directing and
supervising the burial or disposition of deceased human remains and the
practice of operating a place for preparing for the disposition of deceased
human bodies or for caring for the deceased human bodies before their
disposition.
         (2)   Funeral Director: A person, known by the title of "funeral
director" or other similar words or titles, licensed by the Illinois Department
of Financial and Professional Regulation who practices funeral directing.
         (3)   Funeral Director And Embalmer: A person who is licensed and
qualified to practice funeral directing and to prepare, disinfect and preserve
dead human bodies by the injection or external application of antiseptics,
disinfectants, or preservative fluids and materials and to use derma surgery or
plastic art for the restoring or mutilated features. It further means a person
who restores the remains of a person for the purpose of funeralization whose
organs or bone or tissue has been donated for anatomical purposes.
         (4)   Funeral Establishment: A building or separate portion of a
building having a specific street address or location and devoted to activities
relating to the shelter, care, custody and preparation of a deceased human body
and which may contain facilities for funeral, memorial or wake services.
         c.   The annual fee for the license shall be one thousand dollars
($1,000.00).
      9.   Class S, Cosmetic Facility: A class S cosmetic facility license
permits the retail sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises
where sold and not for resale in any form. Sale in the original package for
consumption off the premises is prohibited. Such licenses shall only be issued
to establishments with a valid business license to operate a barbershop/salon,
and where the service of alcoholic beverages is ancillary and incidental to
cosmetic services. The annual fee for such license shall be one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) and subject to the following conditions:
         a.   A class S license allows only the sale of champagne and wine to
customers for on premises consumption while receiving cosmetic services.
         b.   The sale of alcoholic beverages is restricted the normal business
hours of the barbershop/salon, and in no event shall champagne or wine be sold
past nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. on any given day.
         c.   Each individual customer shall be served no more than two (2)
alcoholic beverages during any one calendar day.
   10.   Class B, Bakery: A class B bakery license permits the retail sale of
alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises where sold and not for
resale in any form. Sale in the original package for consumption off the
premises is prohibited. Such licenses shall only be issued to establishments
with a valid business license to operate a bakery, and where the service of
alcoholic beverages is ancillary and incidental to the sale of baked goods. The
annual fee for such license shall be one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and
subject to the following conditions:
      a.   A class B licence allows only the sale of beer, wine, and liqueur
products for the sole purpose of mixing spritz-like beverages to customers for
on premises consumption.
      b.   The sale of alcoholic beverages is restricted to the normal business
hours of the bakery, and in no event shall alcoholic beverages be sold past
eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M. Tuesday to Sunday.
   B.   License Classifications for Off-Premises Consumption:
      1.   Class P, Packaged Liquor Sales: A class P license shall permit the
retail sale of alcoholic liquor in sealed packages but not for consumption on
the premises where sold.
         a.   Class P-1 License: Incidental sales, where the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor is incidental to the sale of any other goods and products.
Such licenses shall only be issued to business establishments with a minimum of
ten thousand (10,000) square feet of floor area; provided, that the maximum
area dedicated to the sale of alcoholic liquor shall not exceed ten percent
(10%) of the total floor area. The retail sale of alcoholic liquor ordered by
telephone, facsimile or other similar method and delivered, mailed or shipped
to the purchaser or any other party is prohibited, except under a separate
approval process and payment of an additional fee as noted in subsection A5a of
this section. The annual fee for such license shall be one thousand seven
hundred fifty dollars ($1,750.00).
         b.   Class P-2 License: Primary sales, where the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor in sealed packages is not incidental to the sale of any other
goods or products, subject to any and all conditions set forth in any special
use permit ordinances pertaining to the location. The annual fee for such
license is one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for a business
establishment with a maximum floor area below eight thousand (8,000) square
feet, and two thousand two hundred fifty dollars ($2,250.00) for a business
establishment with a maximum floor area of eight thousand (8,000) square feet
or greater.
      The retail sale of alcoholic liquor ordered by telephone, facsimile or
other similar method, delivered, mailed or shipped to the purchaser or any
other party is prohibited, except where separate approval and additional fees
have been secured as noted in subsection A5a of this section.
         c.   Class P-3 License: Convenience sales package sales allowed as an
adjunct to a grocery establishment wherein the area set aside for groceries is
a minimum of two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet of floor space. The
preliminary purpose of the grocery establishment being the sale of food and
food items with the area set aside for liquor sales not to exceed one hundred
and fifty (150) square feet of total floor area which may include refrigerated
space and/or total floor area. The sale of individual beer can and/or bottle is
prohibited. A Class P-3 license holder is not eligible for a Class TS
supplemental license. The advertisement of alcoholic products on windows and/or
exterior signage is prohibited. The annual fee for such license is one thousand
five hundred dollars ($1,500.00).
         d.   Class P-4: On Premise Consumption: retail sale of packaged
alcoholic liquors for consumption off the premises and the sale of spirits,
beer, wine and sake for consumption on the premises as an incidental part of a
grocery store that has a minimum gross floor area of thirty thousand (30,000)
square feet. Class P4 licenses shall be subject to the following conditions and
limitations for the sale of alcohol, in original packages, unopened only as
follows:
         (1)   Not more than ten percent (10%) of the gross floor area shall be
devoted to the sale of liquor products.
         (2)   Alcohol sold in original packages and intended for off premises
consumption shall not be opened or consumed on the premises or in any
designated seating/serving area.
         (3)   The sale of liquor intended for consumption on the premises
shall be limited to individual servings of spirits, beer, wine or sake.
         (4)   The sale of spirits, beer, wine or sake, for consumption on the
premises, shall be served only in a designated seating/serving area, which
includes an area where food is prepared and regularly served on the premises.
Such food shall include hot or cold sandwiches, appetizers, tapas, sushi, baked
goods or other similar foods.
         (5)   The consumption of spirits, beer, wine and sake on the premises
shall be permitted in the designated seating/serving area as well as the
shopping areas throughout the premises; however, the licensee shall mark, with
conspicuous signage, the area past which consumption of spirits, beer, wine and
sake is no longer permitted.
         (6)   The designated seating/serving area for customers consuming
spirits, beer, wine or sake on the premises shall be limited to five percent
(5%) of the gross floor area.
         (7)   It is intended that the service of spirits, beer, wine and sake
is merely adjunct to the operation of a grocery store and that the facility
shall not be advertised or otherwise held out to be a drinking establishment.
         (8)   Hours for the sale of packaged alcoholic liquor, for consumption
off the premises shall be in accordance with this Code but in no case shall the
sale of spirits, beer, wine or sake take place outside of the normal business
hours of the grocery store.
         (9)   The establishment does not engage in the retail sale of goods
outside of groceries such as, but not limited to, clothing, shoes, home goods,
electronics, and sporting goods.
         (10)   The annual fee for such license shall be two thousand seven
hundred fifty dollars ($2,750.00).
         (11)   The retail sale of alcoholic liquor ordered by telephone,
facsimile or other similar method, delivered, mailed or shipped to the
purchaser or any other party is prohibited, except where separate approval and
additional fees have been secured through obtaining a Class TI license.
         e.   Additional Services, Limitations And Fees:
         (1)   Sampling: For purposes of marketing the sale of wine, wine
coolers or premium beers for off premises consumption, the holder of a valid
class P liquor license may offer for consumption on the licensed premises wine,
wine coolers, or premium beer samplings, not to exceed two (2) one-ounce
samples per patron during any business day. Sampling distribution for P-1 and
P-4 licensees shall be conducted within or immediately adjacent to an area
containing wine and/or beer for retail sale and shall be no closer than fifteen
feet (15') from the closest interior edge of any checkout lane. A person
otherwise qualified under this section to deliver wine and beer shall be
present and deliver all samples to potential customers.
   C.   Specialty License Classifications:
      1.   Class O, Off Premises Liquor Sales: A class O license permits the
off premises retail sale of alcoholic liquor in connection with the operation
of a catering business. The sale of alcoholic liquor shall be made in
conjunction with the catering of prepared foods for private functions and for
consumption only on the premises where the food is catered (except where
permitted in subsection H4 of this section). The sale of alcoholic liquor shall
be incidental to the food service (except where permitted in subsection H4 of
this section) and if the catered event does not qualify as a private function,
a class T temporary liquor license shall also be required for the location of
the catered event. No cash bar shall be permitted (except where permitted in
subsection H4 of this section). Permitted hours: eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M.
Monday through Friday, eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. Saturday and Sunday to twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight Sunday through Thursday, one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
Friday and Saturday. The fee for such license shall be as follows:
         a.   Five hundred dollars ($500.00) for catering business
headquartered in the village that also holds a class D or G village liquor
license. The initial application fee is waived, provided the ownership and
management is consistent with their class D or G village liquor license.
         b.   One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for catering business
headquartered in the village without a class D or G village liquor license.
         c.   Two hundred dollars ($200.00) per day for a catering business not
headquartered in the village. In addition to complying with all other
application requirements, the catering business must furnish a copy of both
their state of Illinois and municipal catering liquor license. The application
fee is waived provided the issuing municipality performed proper background
checks on the licensee and manager.
         d.   One thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for a catering business with an
exclusive agreement with Scottish Rite to sell and serve alcoholic liquor for
consumption on their premises at 383 East Lake Street, Bloomingdale, Illinois.
The initial application fee is waived, if both the catering business ownership
and management is consistent with a current class D or G village liquor
license.
      2.   Class BP, Brewpub: A restaurant-brewery that sells its beer on site.
The beer is brewed primarily for sale in the restaurant and bar. The beer is
often dispensed directly from the brewery's storage tanks. Where permitted by
the establishment's liquor license, the brewpub may be permitted to sell beer
that is produced and packaged in a sealed container on site, "to go". Such
licenses shall only be issued to a dining establishment with ten (10) to one
hundred forty (140) seats. The annual fee for such license shall be one
thousand seven hundred fifty dollars ($1,750.00). The annual fee for such
licenses issued to establishments with seats in excess of one hundred forty
(140) (excluding outdoor seating) shall be two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00). Brewpubs are required to meet all applicable federal and state
licensing standards.
      3.   Class MB, Microbrewery: A business establishment where malt
beverages of alcoholic content are produced for distribution, retail or
wholesale, on or off premises, with a capacity of less than fifteen thousand
(15,000) U.S. barrels of beer per calendar year. The establishment may include,
as an ancillary use, an onsite taste testing area, full-service liquor, and
other uses such as a restaurant or tavern as permitted by the Village of
Bloomingdale zoning ordinance and/or Liquor Commissioner. Such licenses shall
only be issued to an establishment of at least three thousand five hundred
(3,500) square feet with at least seven hundred (700) square feet dedicated to
the specific purpose of brewing malt beverages of alcoholic content. The annual
fee for such license shall be two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
Microbreweries are required to meet all applicable Federal and State licensing
standards and laws.
      4.   Class MW, Micro-winery: A business establishment where wine with
alcoholic content is produced, ferment-ed and aged for distribution, retail or
wholesale, on or off premises with a capacity of less than 10,000 cases per
calendar year and where the grapes and/or other fruit is grown in an offsite,
re-mote location. For the purpose of this definition, a case shall be defined
as twelve (12), 750 ml bottles. The establishment may include, as an ancillary
use, an onsite taste testing area and other uses such as food sampling, as
permitted by the Village of Bloomingdale Zoning Ordinance and/or Liquor
Commissioner. The annual fee for such license shall be one thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500.00). Micro-wineries are required to meet all applicable
Federal and State licensing standards and laws.
      5.   Class MD, Micro-distillery: A business establishment where alcoholic
spirits are produced, distilled, and aged for distribution in the original
package for consumption off the premises only; to sell at retail alcoholic
spirits manufactured on the premises; to maintain facilities on the premises
for the manufacture of alcoholic spirits as authorized by the Illinois State
Liquor Commission; and to store and distribute the manufactured alcoholic
spirits on and from the licensed premises. A Class MD license holder shall
manufacture alcoholic spirits in quantities not greater than five thousand
(5,000) gallons per calendar year. The portion of the licensed premises
dedicated to the manufacturing of alcoholic spirits shall be segregated from
the remainder of the premises and shall not be generally accessible to the
public. The establishment may include, as an ancillary use, an onsite taste
testing area and other uses such as food sampling, as permitted by the Village
of Bloomingdale Zoning Ordinance and/or Liquor Commissioner. The annual fee for
such license shall be two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00). Micro-
distilleries are required to meet all applicable Federal and State licensing
standards and laws.
      6.   Class BS, Bottle Shop: A business establishment that sells primarily
specialty beer and wine for consumption on-site; and authorizes the retail sale
of specialty beer and wine in its original sealed packaging for consumption
off-premises. Sealing and removal of partially consumed wine bottles for off
premises consumption is prohibited.
      7.   Class DR, Dining Retail: A class DR license permits the retail sale
of alcoholic beverages and liquors for consumption on the premises of a dining
establishment that also includes a dedicated retail component of the premises.
Such licenses shall only be issued to dining establishments where the service
of alcoholic beverages and retail sale of wine is ancillary and incidental to
service of food. Class DR licenses shall authorize the retail sale of wine in
original packages only within the retail area of the premises. The retail wine
area shall not exceed forty percent (40%) of the total square footage of the
premises. Further, wine tasting and sampling bars shall be permitted in the
retail wine area of said premises, but said tasting may only be conducted in
accordance with, and after obtaining, a Class TS, Tasting License. The annual
fee for such license shall be three thousand dollars ($3,000.00).
   D.   Supplemental License Classifications:
      1.   Class T, Temporary: A class T license permits the temporary retail
sale of beer, wine and wine coolers for consumption only on the premises where
sold, and not for resale in any form, to be issued for temporary stands, booths
and counters such as used at picnics, celebrations and the like, with specific
locations designated on the license. Such licenses shall only be issued for
events hosted by the Village, the Bloomingdale Park District, or civic,
patriotic, fraternal, educational, religious or benevolent organizations. The
associated fee for a class T liquor license shall be $50.00 per permit.
      The Class T license is a supplemental license available only to village
business establishments in good standing holding a Class D (Dining), Class BP
(Brewpub), Class MB (Microbrewery), or Class MW (Micro-winery) liquor license.
The supplemental license shall provide a certificate of insurance of liquor
liability (dramshop) coverage, specifically referencing the applicable event,
its location and dates, and naming the Village of Bloomingdale or the
Bloomingdale Park District where applicable, as an "additional insured" for
such coverage. The supplemental license shall be considered part of the
regular, current liquor license and subject to all other requirements provided
by Village Code related thereto. Any and all violations of this chapter
involving the sale of liquor at any event pursuant to this supplemental license
shall also accrue to the primary license itself, subjecting the primary license
to suspension or revocation as provided in section
4-2-27 of this chapter.
      A Class T license for the temporary retail sale of beer, wine and wine
coolers for consumption only on the premises where stated on the permit, and
not for resale in any form shall be subject to the following conditions and
limitations:
         a.   A Class T License shall be issued for a period not to exceed
twenty four (24) hours;
         (1)   A Class T License shall not be issued to a location that permits
smoking on the premises where the alcohol will be served or consumed.
         (2)   A Class T License shall not be issued to any establishment
licensed to operate video gaming terminals, as defined under the Illinois Video
Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq., unless such establishment also maintains a
Class V license with the Village of Bloomingdale.
      2.   Class V, Video Gaming: A class V video gaming supplemental license
permits the retail sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises
where sold and not for resale in any form, plus the operation of video gaming
terminals (VGT) subject to the following conditions:
         (1)   Applications for a supplemental class V video gaming
supplemental license shall only be accepted from establishments "in good
standing" with the village with a class D-2 full liquor service, class H hotel,
or class R resort liquor license.
         (2)   A class V video gaming license shall only be issued to
establishments where both the service of alcoholic liquor and video gaming is
ancillary and incidental, and when the establishment has been authorized to
operate video gaming terminals (VGT) by a license issued by the state of
Illinois gaming board pursuant to the provisions of the Illinois Gaming Act,
230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/1 et seq.
         (3)   A license fee of five hundred dollars ($500.00) per video gaming
terminal (VGT) shall be charged to all Class V supplemental licenses in
addition to any and all applicable Class D-2 full liquor service, Class H
hotel, or Class R resort license fees.
         (4)   The initial application fee, as outlined in section
4-2-6-1 of this chapter, shall be waived for a Class V license application.
         (5) Location, screening and supervision requirements set forth in
subsection
4-2-18D of this chapter.
      3.   Class TS, Tasting: A class TS tasting supplemental license permits
on premise wine and beer tasting during the normal business hours of the
primary liquor license, but only in connection with the bona fide sale of wine
or beer in the original package for consumption not on the premises. Wine and
beer tastings shall be restricted to amounts of not more than one and one-half
ounce (1.5oz.) of wine and two ounces (2 oz.) of beer in conjunction with the
anticipated sale of wine and beer to individuals twenty-one (21) years of age
or older.
         a.   Class TS-1: A Class TS-1 license shall permit tastings to be
provided without compensation and each individual customer shall be served no
more than three (3) tastings during any one calendar day. The annual fee for
such license shall be fifty dollars ($50.00).
         b.   Class TS-2: A Class TS-2 license shall permit tastings to be
provided with compensation in accordance with a dedicated tasting menu and/or
business model to be submitted and approved by the Local Liquor Commissioner.
The annual fee for such license shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00).
      4.   Class TI, Telephone And Internet Sales: Telephone and internet sales
of alcoholic liquor in sealed packages for consumption off the premises shall
be permitted only after obtaining a driver's license number or verifying that
such license number is currently on file establishing that the person placing
the order is twenty-one (21) years of age or older. The licensee shall have
full responsibility for securing proof of age as with any other type of
transaction involving the sale of alcoholic liquor. Deliveries of alcoholic
liquor to a customer vehicle parked in the designated curbside pickup locations
in the parking area of the licensee shall only be performed by BASETT Trained
employees of the licensee who are twenty-one (21) years of age or older.
Deliveries of alcoholic liquor to a business or residence, is limited to the
use of the delivery service, such as Instacart, and United Parcel Service or
similar entity, and all packages must have a label requiring a signature, upon
delivery, of a person twenty-one (21) years of age or older, and deliveries may
only be accepted by persons twenty-one (21) years of age or older. A written
record shall be made at the time of delivery to a business or residence showing
that delivery was made to a person twenty-one (21) years of age or older. Said
records shall be maintained for a period of two (2) years for village auditing
purposes. Direct delivery to a business or residence utilizing the employees or
other agents of the licensee shall be prohibited, except when delivery is to
another employee of the licensee. The additional annual fee for this additional
service shall be seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).  (Ord. 2009-35, 9-29-
2009; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2012-10, 2-13-2012; Ord. 2013-10, 2-11-2013; Ord.
2014-04, 1-27-2014; Ord. 2014-14, 3-24-2014; Ord. 2015-51, 12-7-2015; Ord.
2017-11, 3-27-2017; Ord. 2018-15, 4-23-2018; Ord. 2019-31, 10-28-2019; Ord.
2019-33, 11-11-2019; Ord. 2020-27, 11-9-2020; Ord. 2020-30, 11-9-2020; Ord.
2021-05, 1-25-2021; Ord. 2022-03, 2-14-2022; Ord. 2022-24, 5-9-2022; Ord. 2022-
42, 10-24-2022; Ord. 2023-28, 6-26-2023; Ord. 2023-33, 7-24-2023; Ord. 2023-41,
11-13-2023; Ord. 2024-32, 7-22-2024; Ord. 2025-01, 1-13-2025)
4-2-9: PAYMENT, DISPOSITION AND PRORATION OF FEES:
All required application fees shall be paid to the village clerk at the time
the application is filed, and shall be forthwith turned over to the village
finance director- treasurer. In the event the license applied for is denied,
any license fee paid shall be returned to the applicant; if the license is
granted, then the license fee shall be deposited in the general corporate fund
or in such other fund as shall have been designated by the president and board
of trustees by proper action. There shall be no refund of fees paid for any
license that is used for less than the one year period. Initial license fees
shall be prorated on a quarterly basis. (Ord. 2003-40, 10-27-2003; amd. 2012
Code)
4-2-10: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
The total number of all licenses issued for each class in force at any one time
shall not exceed the number as established by the board of trustees from time
to time by ordinance, as set forth on exhibit A attached to the ordinance
codified herein. (Ord. 2003-40, 10-27-2003; amd. Ord. 2014-04, 1-27-2014; Ord.
2020-19, 8-10-2020; Ord. 2020-27, 11-9-2020; Ord. 2020-32, 11-23-2020; Ord.
2021-30, 8-9-2021; Ord. 2021-31, 8-9-2021; Ord. 2022-02, 1-24-2022; Ord. 2022-
04, 2-14-2022; Ord. 2022-24, 5-9-2022; Ord. 2022-23, 6-13-2022; Ord. 2022-34,
8-8-2022; Ord. 2022-35, 9-26-2022; Ord. 2022-36, 9-26-2022; Ord. 2022-52, 12-
12-2022; Ord. 2023-28, 6-26-2023; Ord. 2023-33, 7-24-2023; Ord. 2024-32, 7-22-
2024)
4-2-11: TERM OF LICENSE:
Each retail liquor dealer's license issued hereunder shall expire on December
31 following the issuance thereof; provided, however, that a class T license
shall be valid for the dates and times specified on the license. The normal
licensing period shall be from January 1 through December 31 of each year,
unless a license is issued or terminated at some other time during the year for
individual circumstances. (Ord. 2009-35, 9-29-2009)
4-2-12: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE:
   A.   A retail liquor dealer's license shall be a purely personal privilege,
good for a period not to exceed one year after issuance (unless sooner revoked
or terminated as herein provided), and shall not constitute property; nor shall
it be subject to attachment, garnishment, or execution; nor shall it be
alienable or transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being
encumbered or hypothecated.
   B.   The license shall cease and terminate upon the death of the licensee
and shall not descend by the laws of the state or intestate succession;
provided, however, that the executor or administrator of the estate of any
deceased licensee, and the trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when
such estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor under the order of a court of
competent jurisdiction, may exercise the privileges of the deceased or
insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of such decedent, or such
insolvency or bankruptcy, until the expiration of such license, but in no event
for a period longer than six (6) months after the death, bankruptcy or
insolvency of such licensee. The executor or administrator of the estate or a
business representative of any deceased owner, partner, or shareholder owning
five percent (5%) or more of a licensed business shall immediately notify in
writing the local liquor control commissioner of such death and indicate what
changes in ownership and/or management will result from the death. (Ord. 2003-
40, 10-27-2003)
4-2-13: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Every licensee shall cause his license or licenses to be framed and hung in
plain view of the public in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises. (Ord.
2003-40, 10-27-2003)
4-2-14: CHANGE OF LOCATION OR OWNERSHIP:
   A.   Location Change: A license issued hereunder shall permit the sale of
alcoholic liquor only in the premises described in the application and license.
Such location may be changed only when and upon written authorization to make
such change shall be issued by the local liquor control commissioner. No change
of location shall be permitted unless the proposed new location complies with
the provisions and regulations of section
4-2-18 of this chapter and applicable zoning regulations. A request for change
of location shall be sent to the village administrator. (Ord. 2003-40, 10-27-
2003)
   B.   Ownership Change: Any change of officers, directors, stockholders with
more than five percent (5%) interest in the corporation, or manager must be
approved pursuant to section
4-2-5 or
4-2-6 of this chapter. The licensee shall file the required documents with the
village clerk not later than the effective date of the proposed change, along
with a one hundred dollar ($100.00) change review fee. Any such change shall be
subject to the final approval of the local liquor control commissioner as
provided in this chapter. Any change in ownership of the licensee, which shall
herein mean a controlling interest in any legal entity, or if an individual or
partnership, a different individual or a change in the partners, shall be
treated as an application for a new license. (Ord. 2009-35, 9-29-2009)
4-2-15: RENEWAL OF LICENSE; LATE FILING FEE:
   A.   Any licensee may apply for the renewal of his license at the expiration
thereof; provided, that he is then qualified to receive a license, and the
premises for which such renewal license is sought is suitable for such purpose;
provided further, that such renewal privilege shall not be construed as a
vested right which shall limit or prevent the decreasing of the number of
licenses to be issued within the village.
   B.   All applications for renewal and payment of the annual license fee
shall be submitted to the village clerk not later than November 30 of each
year. Such applications shall be made and processed in the manner provided in
sections
4-2-5,
4-2-6,
4-2-7 and
4-2-11 of this chapter, and all requirements of those sections must be met
yearly for renewal. The local liquor control commissioner may authorize the use
of shorter forms for license renewal for licensees to indicate only any changes
in the information submitted for the previous year. For any renewal application
submitted after December 15, there shall be a twenty percent (20%) surcharge
added to the basic license fee. (Ord. 2003-40, 10-27-2003)
4-2-16: HOURS OF OPERATION:
   A.   No alcoholic liquor shall be consumed in or on any premises for which a
liquor license has been issued during any period of time during which this
chapter prohibits the sale of alcoholic liquor. All alcoholic liquor which is
served during those hours when the serving of alcoholic liquor is permitted but
which is not consumed must be removed from all tables, counters and serving
surface areas within fifteen (15) minutes after the permitted hours end. Only
employees of a licensee actually engaged in cleaning up the premises or other
job activities shall be allowed to remain on the premises after closing hours.
The following schedule delineates the permitted hours that alcoholic beverages
can be served on the licensed premises, by liquor class: (Ord. 2009-35, 9-29-
2009; amd. 2012 Code)
Liquor Class Open Close
Liquor Class                Open       Close
BP, Brewpub - full liquor service:
Sunday - Thursday           10:00 A.M. 1:00 A.M. Monday - Friday
Friday - Saturday           10:00 A.M. 2:00 A.M. Saturday and Sunday
BS; Bottle Shop
Monday - Thursday           11:00 A.M. 9:00 P.M.
Friday - Saturday           11:00 A.M. 10:00 P.M.
Sunday                      11:00 A.M. 9:00 P.M.
C, Churches, civic groups and clubs:
Sunday - Saturday           11:00 A.M. 12:00 midnight
D-1, Dining - beer and wine:
Sunday - Thursday           11:00 A.M. 12:00 midnight
Friday                      11:00 A.M. 1:00 A.M. Saturday
Saturday                    11:00 A.M. 1:00 A.M. Sunday
D-2, Dining - full liquor service:
Monday - Thursday           8:00 A.M.  12:00 midnight
Friday                      8:00 A.M.  1:00 A.M. Saturday
Saturday                    8:00 A.M.  1:00 A.M. Sunday
Sunday                      8:00 A.M.  12:00 midnight
                                       Later closing hours available subject to
                                     additional fees noted in subsections 4-
                                       2-8B3a(2) and B3a(3) of this chapter
D-2, Dining - full liquor service with 1 hour late close:
Monday - Thursday           11:00 A.M. 1:00 A.M. Tuesday - Friday
Friday                      11:00 A.M. 2:00 A.M. Saturday
Saturday                    8:00 A.M.  2:00 A.M. Sunday
Sunday                      8:00 A.M.  1:00 A.M. Monday
D-2, Dining - full liquor service with 2 hour late close (140+ seats):
Monday - Thursday           11:00 A.M. 2:00 A.M. Tuesday - Friday
Friday                      11:00 A.M. 3:00 A.M. Saturday
Saturday                    8:00 A.M.  3:00 A.M. Sunday
Sunday                      8:00 A.M.  2:00 A.M. Monday
DR; Dining Retail
Monday - Thursday           11:00 A.M. 9:00 P.M.
Friday - Saturday           11:00 A.M. 10:00 P.M.
Sundary                     11:00 A.M. 9:00 P.M.
E, Entertainment:
Sunday - Saturday           10:00 A.M. 2:00 A.M. Monday - Sunday
F, Funeral: During Services 11:00 A.M. 9:00 P.M.
G, Golf course and clubhouse:
Sunday - Thursday           7:00 A.M.  1:00 A.M. Monday - Friday*
Friday                      7:00 A.M.  2:00 A.M. Saturday*
Saturday                    7:00 A.M.  2:00 A.M. Sunday*
                                     *Service on the golf course stops at
                                       dusk
H, Hotel:
Sunday - Saturday           5:00 P.M.  10:30 P.M.
                           R resort service hours apply for lounges located
                            within a resort
MB, Microbrewery:
Monday - Thursday           11:00 A.M. 12:00 midnight
Friday                      11:00 A.M. 1:00 A.M. Saturday
Saturday                    8:00 A.M.  1:00 A.M. Sunday
Sunday                      8:00 A.M.  12:00 midnight
MD; Micro Distillery
Monday - Thursday           11:00 A.M. 9:00 P.M.
Friday - Saturday           11:00 A.M. 10:00 P.M.
Sunday                      11:00 A.M. 9:00 P.M.
MT, Movie theater - full liquor service:
Monday - Thursday           11:00 A.M. 12:00 midnight
Friday                      11:00 A.M. 1:00 A.M. Saturday
Saturday                    11:00 A.M. 1:00 A.M. Sunday
Sunday                      11:00 A.M. 12:00 midnight
MW, Micro-winery
Monday - Thursday           11:00 A.M. 11:00 P.M.
Friday                      11:00 A.M. 12:00 midnight
Saturday                    8:00 A.M.  12:00 midnight
Sunday                      8:00 A.M.  11:00 P.M.
P-1, Packaged liquor - incidental sales:
Sunday - Saturday           7:00 A.M.  12:00 midnight
P-2, Packaged liquor - primary sales:
Sunday - Saturday           9:00 A.M.  12:00 midnight
P-3, Packaged liquor - incidental sales:
Sunday - Saturday           7:00 A.M.  12:00 midnight (same as the P-1 license)
P-4, On premise consumption:
Sunday - Saturday           7:00 A.M.  12:00 midnight (off premises same as P-
                                       1 license)
R, Resort:
Sunday - Thursday           7:00 A.M.  2:00 A.M. Monday - Friday*
Friday                      7:00 A.M.  3:00 A.M. Saturday*
Saturday                    7:00 A.M.  3:00 A.M. Sunday*
                                     *Service on the golf course stops at
                                       dusk
                            Restricted to the normal business hours of the
S, Cosmetic facility:       barbershop/salon, and in no event shall champagne
                            or wine be sold past 9:00 p.m. on any given day.
T, Temporary:
Sunday - Saturday           7:00 A.M.  12:00 midnight
                           Not to precede or exceed posted event hours
V, Video gaming             Subject to the hours of the primary Class D-2 full
                            liquor service, H hotel or R resort liquor license
 
   B.   On January 1 (New Year's Day morning), closing hours for all classes,
with the exception of Classes C and T, shall be extended for one hour, provided
no establishment serves after three o'clock (3:00) A.M. No establishment with a
liquor license shall be affected by the time change that occurs with daylight
saving time. For purposes of this chapter, liquor establishments are to treat
the time change as having no effect on business hours. Liquor establishments
shall not remain open for an additional hour in the fall season when clocks
fall back from two o'clock (2:00) A.M. to one o'clock (1:00) A.M., and will not
lose an hour in the spring season when clocks spring forward from two o'clock
(2:00) A.M. to three o'clock (3:00) A.M. (Ord. 2009-35, 9-29-2009; amd. 2012
Code; Ord. 2014-04, 1-27-2014; Ord. 2014-11, 2-24-2014; Ord. 2014-14, 3-24-
2014; Ord. 2015-51, 12-7-2015; Ord. 2016-30, 8-8-2016; Ord. 2017-11, 3-27-2017;
Ord. 2018-15, 4-23-2018; Ord. 2019-27, 8-26-2019; Ord. 2020-27, 11-9-2020; Ord.
2020-30, 11-9-2020; Ord. 2021-05, 1-25-2021; Ord. 2022-24, 5-9-2022; Ord. 2023-
16, 4-10-2023 ; Ord. 2023-28, 6-26-2023; Ord. 2023-33, 7-24-2023)
4-2-17: HAPPY HOURS PROHIBITED:
   A.   All retail licensees shall maintain a schedule of the prices charged
for all drinks of alcoholic liquor to be served or consumed on the licensed
premises.
   B.   No retail licensee or employee or agent of such licensee shall:
      1.   Sell, offer to sell, or serve any drink of alcoholic liquor to any
person on any one date at a reduced price other than that charged other
purchasers of drinks on that day where such reduced price is a promotion to
encourage consumption of alcoholic liquor, or where pricing is such that it
encourages excessive consumption of alcoholic liquor as determined by the
liquor control commissioner, except as authorized in subsection C7 of this
section.
      2.   Serve two (2) or more drinks at any one time to one person for
consumption by that one person, except for conducting product sampling or
selling of wine or beer flights or delivering of beer by the pitcher, or wine
by the bottle or carafe, as provided in subsection C of this section.
      3.   Sell, offer to sell or serve to any person an unlimited number of
drinks of alcoholic liquor during any set period of time for a fixed price,
except at private functions not open to the public.
      4.   Deliver alcoholic beverages to patrons free of charge, except at
private functions not open to the public.
      5.   Increase the volume of alcoholic liquor contained in a drink or the
size of a drink of alcoholic liquor without increasing proportionately the
price regularly charged for such drink on that day.
      6.   Encourage or permit on the licensed premises any game or contest
which involves drinking alcoholic liquor or the awarding of drinks of alcoholic
liquor as prizes for such game or contest on the licensed premises.
      7.   Advertise or promote in any way, whether on or off the licensed
premises, any of the above prohibited practices.
   C.   The prohibited practices in this section shall not prohibit licensees
from:
      1.   Offering free food or entertainment (with proper permit and zoning)
at any time;
      2.   Including a drink as part of a meal or hotel services package;
      3.   Offering free wine or beer tasting;
      4.   Offering room service to registered guests in hotels licensed for
such service;
      5.   Negotiating drinks of alcoholic liquor as part of a contract between
a hotel or multiuse establishment and another group for the holding of any
function, meeting, convention or trade show;
      6.   Selling pitchers (or the equivalent including, but not limited to,
buckets), carafes, or bottles of alcoholic liquor which are customarily sold in
such manner, or selling bottles of spirits, and delivered to two (2) or more
persons at one time;
      7.   Increasing prices of drinks of alcoholic liquor in lieu of, in whole
or in part, a cover charge to offset the cost of special entertainment not
regularly scheduled; or
      8.   Selling of a wine or beer flight to one person, not to exceed a
total of twelve (12) ounces. (Ord. 2015-51, 12-7-2015)
4-2-18: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Restrictions: No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any
alcoholic liquor within one hundred feet (100') of any church, school other
than an institution of higher learning, hospital, home for aged or indigent
persons or for veterans, their spouses or children, or any military or naval
station; provided, that this prohibition shall not apply to hotels offering
restaurant service, regularly organized clubs, or to restaurants, food shops or
other places where the sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business
carried on, nor to the renewal of a license for the sale at retail of alcoholic
liquor on premises within one hundred feet (100') of any church or school where
the church or school has been established within such one hundred feet (100')
since the issuance of the original license. In the case of a church, the
distance of one hundred feet (100') shall be measured to the nearest part of
any building used for worship services or educational programs and not to
property boundaries. (Ord. 2003-40, 10-27-2003; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Majority Of Customers Under Twenty One: No license shall be issued to
any person for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor, except wine and
beer, at any store or other place of business where the majority of customers
are under the age of twenty one (21) years, or where the principal business
transacted consists of schoolbooks, school supplies, food, lunches or drinks
for anyone under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   C.   Where Consumption Occurs: Except as specifically authorized in the
granting of a license concerning the location of facilities for service and
consumption of alcoholic beverages, and applicable special use permits, all
service and consumption of alcoholic beverages subject to the provisions of
this chapter shall occur only inside a building of a licensed premises. (Ord.
2003-40, 10-27-2003)
   D.   Location, Screening And Supervision: Video gaming terminals shall be
situated in an area restricted to patrons twenty one (21) years of age or
older. Said area shall be under direct and constant supervision of an employee
of the establishment who is twenty one (21) years of age or older and BASSET
certified. The video gaming area shall be screened from view by patrons who are
less than twenty one (21) years of age. (Ord. 2014-11, 2-24-2014)
4-2-19: CLEAR VIEW OF PREMISES; LIGHTING:
   A.   In premises upon which the sale of alcoholic liquor is licensed under
class P, no screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or thing shall be
permitted in the windows or upon the doors of such licensed premises nor inside
such premises which shall prevent a clear view into the interior of such
licensed premises from the street, road or sidewalk at all times; and no booth,
screen, partition, or other obstruction nor any arrangement of lights or
lighting shall be permitted in or about the interior of such premises which
shall prevent a clear view of the entire interior from the street, road or
sidewalk. All rooms where liquor is sold for consumption on the premises shall
be continuously lighted during business hours by natural light or artificial
white light so that all parts of the interior of the premises shall be clearly
visible. In case the view into any such licensed premises required by this
subsection shall be wilfully obscured by the licensee or by him wilfully
permitted to be obscured or in any manner obstructed, then such license shall
be subject to revocation in the manner herein provided. In order to enforce the
provisions of this subsection, the local liquor control commissioner shall have
the right to require the filing with him of plans, drawings and photographs
showing the clearance of the view as required in this subsection. (Ord. 2009-
35, 9-29-2009)
   B.   Notwithstanding any other ordinance of the village, every parking lot
of a licensed premises shall be adequately lighted at night so that police
officers, other law enforcement officers and members of the public can
adequately view the area for security purposes. (Ord. 2003-40, 10-27-2003)
4-2-20: SANITARY CONDITIONS:
   A.   Premises: All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor or
for the storage of such liquor for sale shall be kept in full compliance with
applicable laws regulating the condition of premises used for the storage or
sale of food for human consumption. (Ord. 2003-40, 10-27-2003)
   B.   Employees: It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for the
retail sale of alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with, or who is a
carrier of, any contagious, infectious or sexually transmitted disease; and it
shall be unlawful for any person who is afflicted with or is a carrier of such
disease to work in or about any premises or to engage in any way in the
handling, preparation or distribution of such liquor. (Ord. 2003-40, 10-27-
2003; amd. 2012 Code)
4-2-21: SALES TO INTOXICATED PERSONS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any holder of a retail liquor dealer's license to
sell, deliver, or give away, or to allow others to sell, deliver or give away,
any alcoholic liquor to an intoxicated person. (Ord. 2005-17, 4-11-2005)
4-2-22: MINORS:
   A.   Purchase, Possession, Consumption Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for
any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to purchase, obtain, possess
or consume, except as provided under subsection F of this section, any
alcoholic liquor in the village.
   B.   Misrepresentation Of Age:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to misrepresent his or her age
for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor in any tavern or
other place in the village where alcoholic liquor is sold.
      2.   It is unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years, for the purpose of buying, accepting, or receiving alcoholic liquor from
a liquor licensee of the village, to represent that he is twenty one (21) years
of age or over, or to present, offer, or possess any false or fraudulent
written, printed, or photostat evidence of age or identity, or such
identification which is not his own.
   C.   Signs Posted: In every tavern or other place in the village where
alcoholic liquor is sold, there shall be displayed at all times in a prominent
place a printed card which shall be supplied by the village clerk, which card
shall read substantially as follows:
WARNING TO MINORS UNDER THE AGE OF 21 YEARS
Any person under the age of 21 years who, for the purpose of buying, accepting
or receiving alcoholic liquor from a liquor licensee of the Village, represents
that he is 21 years of age or over, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of the Village Code.
   D.   Presence On Premises: It shall be unlawful for any holder of a retail
liquor dealer's license, or his or her agent or employee, to suffer or permit
any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to sit or stand at a bar
counter or the location at or from which a bartender actually prepares or
serves alcoholic drinks; provided, that this subsection shall not apply to any
such person who is accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian.
   E.   Sales, Providing To, Permitting Consumption: It shall be unlawful to
sell, give or deliver, except as provided in subsections F2 and F3 of this
section, alcoholic liquor to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years;
and it shall be unlawful for a licensee, his agents, or another person
knowingly to allow a person under the age of twenty one (21) years to consume
alcoholic liquor.
   F.   Employment:
      1.   No person who is under the age of twenty-one (21) years shall
perform service as a bartender or draw, mix or pour any alcoholic liquor within
any premises for which a retail liquor license has been issued, except as
provided in subsection F3 of this section.
      2.   No person who is under the age of eighteen (18) years shall serve
any alcoholic liquor as a waiter or waitress within any premises for which a
retail liquor license has been issued.
      3.   Nothing contained in subsections F1 and F2 of this section shall be
construed to prohibit persons of the age of eighteen (18) years or older from
pouring wine at a table, or pouring, mixing or adding a nonalcoholic beverage
to a prepoured or mixed alcoholic liquor beverage; provided such act by a
person of the age of eighteen (18) years or older is performed as an incidental
act to such person's employment as a waiter or waitress whose primary function
is limited to serving food and beverage within premises for which a retail
liquor license has been issued; and provided further, that such act does not
constitute tending a bar.
      4.   No person who is under the age of twenty-one (21) years shall sell
packaged liquor at a retail establishment for which a packaged liquor license
has been issued.
   G.   Violations:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any parent or legal guardian to permit his
child or a person under his custody, supervision and control to violate any
provisions of this section.
      2.   In addition to all other fines and penalties, the local liquor
control commissioner may suspend or revoke the retail liquor dealer's license
for any violation of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2003-40, 10-27-2003;
amd. Ord. 2008-47, 10-15-2008, eff. 1-1-2009; 2012 Code; Ord. 2022-08, 2-28-
2022)
4-2-22-1: RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS OR GUARDIAN:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms shall
have the following stated meanings:
INTENTIONALLY: A person acts "intentionally" when he has the conscious
objective to accomplish a result or engage in the conduct that he is in fact
performing.
KNOWINGLY: A person acts "knowingly" when he is consciously aware of the nature
or attendant circumstances of his conduct.
LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian or given custody of a minor by a
circuit court of the state, but does not include a person appointed guardian or
given custody under the juvenile court act.
MINOR: Any unemancipated person over seven (7) years of age but not yet twenty
one (21) years of age.
NEGLIGENTLY: A person acts "negligently" when he fails to be aware of a
substantial and unjustifiable risk that circumstances exist or that a result
will follow and where such failure constitutes a substantial deviation from the
standard of care which a reasonable person would exercise in the situation.
PARENTS: Includes the father and mother of a minor child, whether by birth or
adoption, or shall be deemed the parent having legal custody of the minor in
the event the parents are divorced or separated. The "parent", as used in this
section, also shall be deemed to mean "legal guardian".
RECKLESSLY: A person acts "recklessly" when he consciously disregards a
substantial and unjustifiable risk that circumstances exist or that a result
will follow and where such disregard constitutes a gross deviation from the
standard of care which a reasonable person would exercise in the situation.
(Ord. 2003-40, 10-27-2003; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Responsibility For Minors:
      1.   No parent shall give or deliver alcoholic liquor to his or her minor
child for the minor's consumption unless the consumption of alcoholic liquor by
such minor is in the performance of a religious service or ceremony under the
direction, supervision and approval of the parent of such minor in the privacy
of a home or established religious building.
      2.   No parent shall intentionally, knowingly, recklessly or negligently
give or deliver alcoholic liquor to, or permit the possession of alcoholic
liquor by, his or her minor child, or any other person under the age of twenty
one (21), unless such minor or person under the age of twenty one (21) is
making a delivery of such alcoholic liquor pursuant to order of his parent, in
pursuance of his employment or otherwise as allowed by subsection B1 of this
section.
      3.   No parent shall intentionally, knowingly, recklessly or negligently
give, deliver, invite or permit the consumption of alcoholic liquor by any
minor on or about any premises owned, leased or controlled by such parent
except as otherwise allowed by subsection B1 of this section.
      4.   Parents shall restrain or prevent their minor children from
consuming alcoholic liquor where the parent knows or, in the exercise of
ordinary care, should know of a substantial probability that his or her minor
child is consuming or will consume alcoholic liquor under circumstances which
would violate the provisions of this section, the Illinois liquor control act,
or any other ordinances or statutes.
      5.   Parents who know, or in the exercise of ordinary care should know,
of a substantial probability that their minor child has consumed, is consuming
or will consume alcoholic liquor in violation of this section, the Illinois
liquor control act, or any other ordinances, statutes or amendments thereto
shall restrain or prevent their minor child from operating or driving a motor
vehicle on the public streets and ways of the village in violation of any
ordinance, law or statute.
      6.   Parents who know, or in the exercise of ordinary care should know,
of a substantial probability that their minor child has consumed or will
consume alcoholic liquor in violation of this section, the Illinois liquor
control act, or any other ordinances, statutes or amendments thereto shall
restrain or prevent their minor child from committing acts which constitute
vandalism, theft, disorderly conduct, the unjustifiable use of force, or the
violation of any ordinance, law or statute. (Ord. 2003-40, 10-27-2003)
4-2-23: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
   A.   Disorderly Conduct And Violations Of Law:
      1.   All licensees hereunder shall have the affirmative duty of reporting
to the on duty radio dispatcher of the Bloomingdale police department any and
all incidents of disorderly conduct or any and all criminal violations or
violations of this chapter which take place within or upon premises for which a
liquor license has been issued pursuant to this chapter immediately upon
observance or notification of the incident. The licensee, employee or agent
making a report of an incident shall identify himself or herself to the police
dispatcher and state the nature of the incident.
      2.   For purposes of this chapter, "disorderly conduct", as used herein,
shall mean such act or behavior of any person which, in any unreasonable
manner, alarms or disturbs another or provokes a breach of the peace within or
upon such premises. Failure to report to the police, as herein provided, shall
be deemed sufficient cause to suspend or revoke the license issued hereunder.
(Ord. 2003-40, 10-27-2003)
   B.   Gambling And Violations Of Law: It shall be unlawful for a licensee to
permit, or to fail to prevent when reasonably apparent, any "gambling", as
defined in state law, or any other violations of state law or ordinances of the
village occurring in or upon the licensed premises, except for video gaming as
provided for in this chapter. (Ord. 2014-11, 2-24-2014)
   C.   Nude Dancing And Sexually Provocative Conduct: The following kinds of
conduct on premises in the village licensed to sell alcoholic liquor are
prohibited:
      1.   The performance of acts, or simulated acts, of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, or flagellation or any
sexual acts which are prohibited by law.
      2.   The actual or simulated touching, caressing or fondling of the
breasts, buttocks, anus or genitals.
      3.   The actual or simulated displaying of the pubic hair, anus, vulva,
genitals, or female breasts below the top of the areola.
      4.   The permitting by a licensee of any person to remain in or upon the
licensed premises who exposes to public view any portion of his or her
genitals, anus, pubic hair or female breasts below the top of areola.
      5.   The performance of topless and/or bottomless dancing, go-go dancing,
stripping, lingerie or bathing suit fashion shows, or similar entertainment
where such performances are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
activities or anatomical areas described in subsections C1, C2 and C3 of this
section.
      6.   The displaying of films or pictures depicting acts, a live
performance of which is prohibited by the regulations stated in this
subsection.
   D.   Telephone Sales And Deliveries: The retail sale of alcoholic liquor
ordered by telephone, facsimile or other similar method to be delivered, mailed
or shipped to the purchaser or any other party is prohibited except for
licensees holding a license which specifically allows for telephone sales and
deliveries under certain conditions. (Ord. 2003-40, 10-27-2003)
4-2-24: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
   A.   The local liquor control commissioner is hereby authorized to enter and
empowered to authorize a law enforcement or health officer to enter at any time
upon any building or premises licensed hereunder, except for residential or
dwelling portions of such buildings, to determine whether or not the provisions
of the Illinois liquor control act and this chapter and any rules or
regulations promulgated by the local liquor control commissioner are being
complied with, as authorized by 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-4 and 5/10-
8 et seq., and all such entry and actions shall conform to the above stated
statutory requirements and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to refuse to grant the admittance to the premises
for which any license has been issued, at any time, upon verbal request of the
liquor control commissioner or any police officer or health officer authorized
by him, of the village, for the purpose of determining whether or not the
Illinois liquor control act or the provisions of this chapter are being
violated, including section
4-2-22 of this chapter, by way of periodic liquor compliance checks, pursuant
to the powers granted by subsection A of this section and by 235 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/10-8 et seq. (Ord. 2003-40, 10-27-2003)
4-2-25: EXAMINATION OF BOOKS AND RECORDS:
The local liquor control commissioner shall have the right to examine or cause
to be examined, under oath, any applicant for a local license or for a renewal
thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of revocation or suspension has been
served as provided by statute, and to examine or cause to be examined the books
and records of any such applicant or licensee; to hear testimony and take proof
for his information in the performance of his duties; and for such purpose, to
issue subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of the state. For the
purpose of obtaining any of the information desired by the local liquor control
commissioner under this section, he may authorize his agent to act on his
behalf, as provided by statute. (Ord. 2003-40, 10-27-2003)
4-2-26: RECORDS AND NOTICES:
The village clerk shall keep a complete record of all retail liquor dealers'
licenses issued and shall furnish copies thereof to the police department,
village administrator and the board of trustees. Upon revocation or suspension
of any license, the village clerk shall immediately give written notice thereof
to the police department, village administrator and the president and board of
trustees. (Ord. 2003-40, 10-27-2003)
4-2-27: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE; FINES; APPEALS:
   A.   Revocation Or Suspension Authorized: The local liquor control
commissioner may suspend or revoke any liquor dealer's license for any
violation of any provisions of this chapter or for any violation of any state
or federal law pertaining to alcoholic liquor, as provided and in the manner
provided by statute.
   B.   Fines: In addition to the suspension, the local liquor control
commissioner may levy a fine on the licensee for such violations. The fine
imposed shall not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for a first violation
within a twelve (12) month period, one thousand five hundred dollars
($1,500.00) for a second violation within a twelve (12) month period, and two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for a third or subsequent violation
within a twelve (12) month period. Each day on which a violation continues
shall constitute a separate violation. Not more than fifteen thousand dollars
($15,000.00) in fines under this section may be imposed against any licensee
during the period of his license. Proceeds from such fines shall be paid into
the general corporate fund.
   C.   Notice Of Hearings: Notice of hearings regarding such suspension or
revocation shall be sent to the police department, village administrator, and
the president and board of trustees.
   D.   Compliance With Statute: The citations of violations, notice of
hearings, conduct of hearings and decisions thereon shall be as provided by
statute at 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/7-9.
   E.   Appeals: The appeal of any decision of the local liquor control
commissioner shall be limited to a review of the official record of proceedings
of such local liquor control commissioner. (Ord. 2009-35, 9-29-2009)
4-2-28: RESPONSIBILITY OF LICENSEE FOR EMPLOYEE ACTIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the actions or inactions of any employee,
agent or representative of a licensee shall be directly imputed to the
licensee, who shall be directly responsible for such actions or inactions.
(Ord. 2003-40, 10-27-2003)
4-2-29: INSTRUCTIONAL PROGRAM FOR PERSONNEL; ATTENDANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   The completion of a state certified beverage alcohol sellers and
servers education and training (BASSET) program is required for all persons who
sell or serve alcoholic beverages, all management personnel working on the
premises and anyone whose job description entails the checking of
identification for the purchase of alcoholic beverages, pursuant to that
license. (Ord. 2013-32, 10-14-2013)
   B.   A "state certified BASSET training program" shall be defined as a
BASSET program licensed by the state of Illinois liquor control commission
(ILCC) as required by 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-12(11.1) and 5/6-27
and title 77 of the Illinois administrative code, chapter XVI, part 3500. All
licensed BASSET providers shall be required to have on file all licenses and
certificates to prove current qualifications and provide a certificate of
course completion and a card (a picture type identification is optional) to
participants as proof of completion.
   C.   Any new owner, employee, or agent requiring BASSET training shall,
within ninety (90) days from the beginning of their employment with the
licensee, complete an ILCC BASSET approved seller/server training program and
shall, until completion of the BASSET program, work under the supervision of a
person who has completed BASSET training.
   D.   Any new manager who has not completed classroom ILCC BASSET seller/
server training within the prior twelve (12) months shall complete BASSET
seller/server training from the Bloomingdale police department at the first
available training session, not to exceed ninety (90) days from the beginning
of their employment with the licensee and shall, until completion of the BASSET
program, work under the supervision of a person who has completed BASSET
training. (Ord. 2013-11, 2-11-2013; amd. Ord. 2013-32, 10-14-2013)
   E.   A photocopy of the certificate of completion for all owners, managers,
employees, or agents required by this section to have BASSET training shall be
maintained by the establishment in a manner that will allow inspection, upon
demand, by any designee of both the state or local liquor control authorities.
   F.   The village and establishments must honor all state of Illinois liquor
control commission (ILCC) BASSET approved programs.
   G.   Failure of an owner, manager, or employee to attend a BASSET training
program, when specifically required by the local liquor control commissioner,
shall constitute a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 2003-40, 10-27-2003; amd.
Ord. 2013-32, 10-14-2013)
4-2-30: PENALTY:
In addition to any other sanctions and remedies provided by statute, any
person, firm or corporation who shall be convicted of violating any provisions
of this chapter shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each offense shall result in a fine in the
amount not less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). (Ord. 2003-40, 10-27-
2003; amd. 2012 Code; 2020-34, 11-23-2020)
CHAPTER 3
AMUSEMENT DEVICES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: Amusement Device Tax
4-3-3: Operator's License
4-3-4: Game Rooms
4-3-5: Disclosure Statement
4-3-6: Nontransferability Of Licenses
4-3-7: Duties Of Licensees
4-3-8: Gambling Devices Prohibited
4-3-9: Inspections
4-3-10: Suspension Or Revocation Of Licenses
4-3-11: Penalties
4-3-12: Application To Existing Businesses
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
AMUSEMENT DEVICE: Any machine, game, table or other device designed, intended,
displayed or kept as an amusement game or test of skill and for the playing of
which a charge is made. The term amusement device, when used in this chapter,
shall include, but not be limited to, devices commonly known as pinball
machines, shuffleboards, bowling machines and coin operated games of skill but
shall not include regulation bowling alleys or pool or billiard tables.
Amusement devices shall include any machine which, upon the insertion of a
coin, slug, token, plate or disk, or the use of which is made available for any
valuable consideration, may be operated by the public generally for use as a
game, entertainment or amusement, whether or not registering a score. The term
shall include such devices as marble machines, electronic games, skill ball,
mechanical grab machines and all games, operations, or transactions similar
thereto under whatever name they may be indicated.
ATTENDANT: Any person acting for and in behalf of an operator or game room
licensee.
GAME ROOM: Any premises in which six (6) or more amusement devices are operated
for commercial purposes.
GAME ROOM LICENSEE: Any person, firm, corporation or association in immediate
control of premises, including any owner or lessee thereof, within or upon
which six (6) or more amusement devices are operated for commercial purposes.
OPERATOR: Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or association engaged in
the business of distributing, placing, leasing or selling amusement devices, as
defined in this section, with an agreement to maintain, service or supply such
amusement devices to any premises located within the village where such
amusement devices are operated for commercial purposes. The term "commercial
purposes", wherever appearing within this chapter, shall have its generally
understood meaning and shall include, without limitation, an intent to operate
amusement devices for gain or profit.
PERSON: Shall include the following: any person, firm or corporation or
association which owns or leases any amusement device; the person, firm,
corporation or association in whose place of business any such device is placed
for use by the public; and the person, firm, corporation or association having
control over such device. (Ord. 93-43, 8-9-1993; amd. Ord. 98-13, 4-13-1998;
2012 Code; Ord. 2023-23, 5-8-2023)
4-3-2: AMUSEMENT DEVICE TAX:
   A.   An annual tax for each calendar year is hereby imposed upon all
amusement devices operated for commercial purposes within the village. The
amount of said tax is one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per device for first
ten (10) devices, and seventy five dollars ($75.00) per machine for each
amusement device in excess of ten (10) located on the licensed premises payable
annually. (Ord. 2014-50, 11-10-2014)
   B.   The amusement device tax shall be paid by the owner of such device to
the village finance director-treasurer. The village finance director-treasurer
shall issue, as evidence of the payment of the tax, a self-voiding adhesive tax
emblem to be placed on each device. Such emblem shall bear the words "Village
of Bloomingdale - Amusement Device Tax" and such other wording as may be
prescribed by the finance director- treasurer. It shall be unlawful for any
person to mutilate said tax emblem during the year for which it was issued.
(Ord. 93-43, 8-9-1993; amd. 2012 Code)
   C.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or lessee of any premises or person
in control of such premises to permit the installation or use of amusement
devices within the village for commercial purposes unless the tax has been paid
and is evidenced by a tax emblem affixed to the amusement device. Each such
device shall be plainly labeled with the name, address and telephone number of
its owner. (Ord. 93-43, 8-9-1993)
4-3-3: OPERATOR'S LICENSE:
   A.   License Required: No one shall engage in the business of being an
operator of amusement devices without having first obtained a license therefor.
   B.   Application For License: An application for an amusement device
operator's license shall be made in conformance with the general business
application requirements of this code 1 .
   C.   License Fee: The license fee for an amusement device operator's license
shall be three hundred dollars ($300.00) for each license year and shall not be
prorated. (Ord. 93-43, 8-9-1993)
   D.   Investigation Of Applicant; Approval Or Denial: The application for an
amusement device operator's license shall be referred to the chief of police
for investigation and verification of the facts stated therein and the business
methods of the operator. Unless the chief of police shall find that the
operator has been convicted of a felony, or that he has violated any law or
ordinance imposing any tax, or if either the owner or operator has employed
illegal measures to promote the use of his amusement devices, or that the place
where said amusement device is to be used is not qualified under the provisions
of this chapter, he shall return the application to the finance director-
treasurer with his approval; otherwise, he shall return it with a statement of
his reasons for refusing to approve the application. (Ord. 93-43, 8-9-1993;
amd. 2012 Code)
   E.   Operators That Are Game Rooms: Where the operator is also a game room
licensee, the operator shall, in each instance, apply for a game room license
and shall not be required to also apply for an operator's license unless such
applicant is an operator for a game room other than one for which he is the
licensee. (Ord. 93-43, 8-9-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 1 of this title.
4-3-4: GAME ROOMS:
   A.   License Required; Fees: No one shall operate a "game room", as defined
in section
4-3-1 of this chapter, without having first obtained a license therefor. The
license fee for a "game room" shall be as provided in section
4-1-5-1 of this title and shall not be prorated. The game room license fee
shall be paid by the licensee to the finance director-treasurer. (Ord. 93-43,
8-9-1993; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Special Use Permit Required: No person shall receive a license pursuant
to this chapter authorizing the operation of a "game room", as defined in
section
4-3-1 of this chapter, unless a special use permit has first been issued
permitting the operation of a game room pursuant to the terms and conditions of
the zoning ordinances of the village. No special use permit shall be granted
for the operation of a game room and no license shall issue, except as an
accessory use to a principal use of the premises for which the license and
special use are sought. A "principal use" is herein defined to mean any of the
permitted or special uses, other than a game room, set forth under the village
zoning ordinance. (Ord. 93-43, 8-9-1993)
   C.   Game Rooms In Shopping Malls:
      1.   The provisions of subsection B of this section notwithstanding, a
game room in an enclosed shopping mall of at least one million (1,000,000)
square feet may be the principal use of the premises.
      2.   In addition to the other provisions set forth in section
4-3-7 of this chapter pertaining to duties of licensees, the following
provisions shall apply to game rooms located in enclosed shopping malls of at
least one million (1,000,000) square feet:
         a.   Two (2) or more attendants/employees must be on duty at all times
overseeing the operation - one at each end of the store. Attendants must be at
least twenty one (21) years of age.
         b.   The licensee is responsible for any costs associated with police
calls for service and added mall security personnel needed because of problems
overflowing from the store into a common area or parking lot, as well as
problems within the store itself.
         c.   The licensee shall restrict the wearing of gang colors, articles
of clothes, signing and other forms of gang activity within the store.
         d.   No liquor may be consumed or sold within the facility licensed.
         e.   The village reserves the right to review terms and conditions of
the lease to ensure that provisions relating to security are adequate.
         f.   All amusement devices must be properly licensed by the village
and all fees paid before the game room facility may open for business.
         g.   The village retains the right to precondition a game room license
upon adequate numbers and quality of security personnel.
         h.   Ingress and egress to a game room in an enclosed shopping mall
with at least one million (1,000,000) square feet shall only be available from
the interior of the enclosed mall and not through the exterior of the enclosed
mall. (Ord. 93-43, 8-9-1993; amd. 2012 Code)
   D.   Ineligibility For License: No license shall be issued hereunder if the
applicant, or if a partnership or corporation, any officer, director, or
shareholder owning five percent (5%) or more of the shares of said corporation,
or any member of the partnership, or any manager or agent in charge of the
premises has been convicted of a felony or any crime involving dishonesty or
false statement.
   E.   Application For License:
      1.   Each application for a game room license shall contain the following
information:
         a.   The name, address and phone number of the applicant.
         b.   Location of place of business.
         c.   Principal kind of business engaged in by applicant.
         d.   Statement of whether business will be conducted by a manager or
agent, and the name, address and phone number of any such manager or agent.
         e.   A diagram showing the number of amusement devices to be located
on the premises, the location of each device on the premises, and a description
of each device.
         f.   If a corporation, set forth the following:
            (1)   Corporate name and address.
            (2)   Date and place of incorporation.
            (3)   Names and addresses of corporate officers and directors.
            (4)   Names and addresses of all persons or legal entities owning
five percent (5%) or more of the corporation's stock.
         g.   If a partnership, set forth the following:
            (1)   Date and place when the partnership was formed.
            (2)   The names of all general partners.
            (3)   If a limited partnership, the names of all limited partners
owning five percent (5%) or more interest in the partnership.
         h.   State whether any individual, partner, officer, or shareholder
has ever been convicted of any criminal offense in any state or federal court
or has ever forfeited an appearance bond on a felony charge; if yes, state the
offense.
         i.   If the business on the subject premises will be conducted by a
manager or agent, state whether the manager or agent has ever been convicted of
any criminal offense in any state or federal court or has ever forfeited an
appearance bond on a felony charge; if yes, state the offense.
      2.   Applications for license shall be made out in duplicate, one copy
being referred to the chief of police and the other copy to be referred to the
village administrator.
      3.   There is an application processing fee of two hundred dollars
($200.00), due and payable at the time the application for license is submitted
to the village.
   F.   Investigation Of Applicant; Issuance Or Denial Of License: The
application shall be investigated by the chief of police and village
administrator in accordance with the provisions of section
4-1-6 of this title. The village administrator shall thereupon issue the
license to the applicant. If it is determined that the applicant does not
qualify for a license, the applicant shall have the right of appeal pursuant to
section
4-1-17 of this title.
   G.   Number Of Licenses: There shall be no more than seven (7) game room
licenses, in the aggregate, issued and outstanding at any one time. (Ord. 93-
43, 8-9-1993)
   H.   Location: No game room shall be located within five hundred feet (500')
of any place of worship or school. (Ord. 93-43, 8-9-1993; amd. 2012 Code)
   I.   Floor Area Required Per Device: There shall be a maximum of one
amusement device for each forty (40) square feet of floor area on the premises,
exclusive of aisles and exit areas. (Ord. 93-43, 8-9-1993)
4-3-5: DISCLOSURE STATEMENT:
Whenever any trustee of a trust or any beneficiary or beneficiaries of a trust
make application for a license pursuant to the terms of this chapter, such
application shall identify each beneficiary of such trust, giving the
respective names and addresses of each and their respective interest or
proportionate share of ownership. All such disclosure statements shall be filed
and maintained for public inspection in the office of the village clerk. (Ord.
93-43, 8-9-1993)
4-3-6: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSES:
A license issued hereunder shall not be transferable from person to person or
place to place and shall be usable only at the place and by the person
designated in the license. The word "person", referred to herein, shall mean
any natural person as well as partnership, corporation, firm or association.
(Ord. 93-43, 8-9-1993)
4-3-7: DUTIES OF LICENSEES:
   A.   Gambling Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to permit gambling on the
premises. Any licensee or attendant who observes any gambling on the premises,
or has reasonable grounds to suspect that gambling is taking place, shall
immediately cause the removal from the premises of such persons as are involved
in the gambling activity.
   B.   Attendant Required: The licensee or an attendant shall be on the
premises at all times in which the business is open to the public and shall be
in such a position as to have a clear view of all the amusement devices and
activity taking place on the premises.
   C.   Noise And Disturbances:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for the licensee hereunder to permit such
noise, either by mechanical means or noise on the part of the patrons, which
shall cause a disturbance to the adjacent and surrounding uses as would cause
the normal operation of said businesses to be damaged or unreasonably
disturbed.
      2.   All licensees or attendants hereunder shall have the affirmative
duty to report to the police department any and all incidents of a "disturbance
of the peace", as defined and regulated in this code 1 , which takes place
within the licensed premises or outside the premises within one hundred feet
(100') from the entrance, whether personally observed or upon observation or
notification. Failure to report to the police as herein provided shall be
deemed sufficient cause to revoke the license issued hereunder.
   D.   Clean, Sanitary Premises: The licensee shall cause the premises to
remain in a clean and sanitary condition at all times and shall place such
waste receptacles in and around the premises so as to accomplish the above.
   E.   Parking; Unobstructed Sidewalks: A licensee shall provide adequate and
orderly parking for all bicycles and motor vehicles and shall keep the
storefront unobstructed so that the sidewalks are clear and open to pedestrian
traffic.
   F.   Persons Under Influence Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
licensee or attendant to knowingly permit any individual under the influence of
alcohol or drugs on the premises where amusement devices are in use. (Ord. 93-
43, 8-9-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  6-5-2 of this code.
4-3-8: GAMBLING DEVICES PROHIBITED:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall in any way be construed to authorize,
license or permit the operation of any "gambling devices", as defined in
section 28-2 of the Illinois criminal code. Any such gambling device shall be
seized by the police in accordance with section 28-5 of the Illinois criminal
code. (Ord. 93-43, 8-9-1993)
4-3-9: INSPECTIONS:
Each licensee shall permit inspection of any licensed premises during regular
business hours by village officials to determine compliance with the provisions
of this code. (Ord. 93-43, 8-9-1993)
4-3-10: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES:
Every license issued under this chapter is subject to the right, which is
hereby expressly reserved, of suspension or revocation of the same should the
licensee, directly or indirectly, permit the operation of any amusement device
or game room contrary to the provisions of this chapter, the ordinances of the
village, or the laws of the state of Illinois. In addition, a license may be
suspended or revoked for any of the grounds set forth in section
4-1-16 of this title. The procedures for suspending and/or revoking any such
license shall be in accordance with those provided in section
4-1-16 of this title. Any revocation of the authorization or licenses issued in
pursuance of the provisions of this chapter shall ipso facto bar reinstatement
of the same, or the granting of a new license, to any corporation, partnership,
or individual shareholder, partner, or owner of which was a shareholder,
partner, or owner or a licensee whose license has heretofore been revoked, for
a term of not less than one year immediately following such revocation. (Ord.
93-43, 8-9-1993; amd. 2012 Code)
4-3-11: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms and provisions of this
chapter shall be liable for a penalty in the amount of one hundred percent
(100%) of any unpaid fee and, in addition, shall be punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 93-43, 8-9-1993; amd. 2012 Code)
4-3-12: APPLICATION TO EXISTING BUSINESSES:
This chapter shall not be construed to extend to or affect any activity for
which a permit or license was issued or application for permit or license filed
prior to the effective date hereof, except for fees not yet due or payable.
(Ord. 98-13, 4-13-1998)
CHAPTER 4
RAFFLES
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: License And Compliance Required; Authority To Issue; Jurisdiction
4-4-3: Qualifications Of Licensee; Ineligibility For License
4-4-4: Application For License
4-4-5: Classes Of Licenses; Fees
4-4-6: Effect Of License
4-4-7: Conduct Of Raffles
4-4-8: Tickets And Prizes
4-4-9: Gambling Prohibited
4-4-10: Raffle Manager
4-4-11: Records And Reports
4-4-12: Penalty
4-4-13: Publication Of Provisions
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter:
AUXILIARY OR AFFILIATES: Shall include an auxiliary or affiliate of a licensee.
BUSINESS: A voluntary organization composed of individuals and businesses who
have joined together to advance the commercial, financial, industrial and civic
interests of a community.
CHARITABLE: An organization or institution organized and operated to benefit an
indefinite number of the public. The service rendered to those eligible for
benefits must also confer some benefit on the public.
EDUCATIONAL: An organization or institution organized and operated to provide
systematic instruction in useful branches of learning by methods common to
schools and institutions of learning which compare favorably in their scope and
intensity with the course of study presented in tax supported schools.
FRATERNAL: An organization of persons having a common interest, the primary
interest of which is to both promote the welfare of its members and to provide
assistance to the general public in such a way as to lessen the burdens of
government by caring for those that otherwise would be cared for by the
government.
LABOR: An organization composed of workers organized with the objective of
betterment of the conditions of those engaged in such pursuit and the
development of a higher degree of efficiency in their respective occupations.
NET PROCEEDS: The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less reasonable
sums expended for prizes, local license fees and other reasonable operating
expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
NONPROFIT: An organization or institution organized and conducted on a not for
profit basis with no personal profit inuring to anyone as a result of the
operation.
RAFFLE: A form of lottery, as defined in section 28-2(b) of the criminal code
of 1961 1 , conducted by an organization licensed under this chapter, in which:
   A.   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning
chance; and
   B.   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on an element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part
of persons conducting or connected with the lottery; except, that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest.
RELIGIOUS: Any church, congregation, society or organization founded for the
purpose of religious worship.
VETERANS: An organization or association comprised of members of which
substantially all are individuals who are veterans or spouses, widows, or
widowers of veterans, the primary purpose of which is to promote the welfare of
its members and to provide assistance to the general public in such a way as to
confer a public benefit. (Ord. 2004-39, 7-26-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/28-2.
4-4-2: LICENSE AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; AUTHORITY TO ISSUE; JURISDICTION:
   A.   License And Compliance Required: No person, firm or corporation shall
conduct a raffle without first having obtained a license pursuant to this
chapter. Each raffle must be authorized by a separate license, except as
authorized by subsection 4-4-6B of this chapter, and must be conducted in
accordance with the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Authority To Issue Licenses: The village clerk or his/her designee
(herein referred to as "village clerk") shall have the authority to issue
licenses for raffles subject to the limitations set forth in subsection 4-4-3A
of this chapter.
   C.   Jurisdiction: A license issued by the village shall authorize the sale
of raffle chances only within the borders of the village. (Ord. 2004-39, 7-26-
2004)
4-4-3: QUALIFICATIONS OF LICENSEE; INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Licenses shall be issued only to bona fide nonprofit, religious,
charitable, labor, business, fraternal, educational or veterans organizations
that operate without profit to their members and which have been in existence
continuously for a period of five (5) years immediately before making
application for a license and which have had, during that entire five (5) year
period, a bona fide membership engaged in carrying out their objectives, or to
a nonprofit fundraising organization that the licensing authority determines is
organized for the sole purpose of providing financial assistance to an
identified individual or group of individuals suffering extreme financial
hardship as the result of an illness, disability, accident or disaster, or to
political committees in accordance with the requirements set forth in 230
Illinois Compiled Statutes 15/8.1.
   B.   No raffle license shall be issued to:
      1.   Any person who has been convicted of a felony.
      2.   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter.
      3.   Any person who is not of good moral character.
      4.   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in subsection B1,
B2 or B3 of this section has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest, or in
which such person is active or employed.
      5.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection B1, B2, or
B3 of this section is an officer, director, or employee, whether compensated or
not.
      6.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection B1, B2 or
B3 of this section is to participate in the management or operation of a
"raffle" as defined in section
4-4-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 2004-39, 7-26-2004)
4-4-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Application for a license shall be made in writing, no fewer than
thirty (30) days before the intended sale of raffle chances, on forms provided
by the village clerk. Each license and application for license shall contain
the following information:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant;
      2.   The area within the village in which the raffle chances will be sold
and issued;
      3.   The time period during which raffle chances will be sold or issued;
      4.   The date, time, manner and location(s) of determining the winning
chances;
      5.   A sworn statement attesting to the nonprofit character of the
applicant signed by its presiding officer and secretary;
      6.   A copy of the applicant's articles of incorporation and/or charter;
and
      7.   Such other information as the village clerk may require.
   B.   The village clerk shall act on a license application within thirty (30)
days from the date of application. (Ord. 2004-39, 7-26-2004)
4-4-5: CLASSES OF LICENSES; FEES:
   A.   Classes And Fees Established: The fee for each license shall be as set
forth in the following schedule:
      1.   Class A: Where the aggregate value of all prizes awarded in any
raffle does not exceed fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), no license fee
shall be required.
      2.   Class B: Where the aggregate value of all prizes awarded in any
raffle is greater than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), the license fee
shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   B.   Waiver For Class B: The fee for a class B raffle license may be waived
by an affirmative vote of the board of trustees. (Ord. 2004-39, 7-26-2004)
   C.   Payment And Disposition Of Fees: All fees for licenses required under
this chapter shall be paid to the village clerk at the time of application and
shall be immediately turned over to the village finance director-treasurer. In
the event the license for which applied is denied, the fee shall be returned to
the applicant; if the license is granted, the fee shall be deposited in the
general fund or in such other fund designated by the board of trustees. (Ord.
2004-39, 7-26-2004; amd. 2012 Code)
4-4-6: EFFECT OF LICENSE:
   A.   Each raffle license shall be valid for the duration of the contest as
stated in the license application.
   B.   Each license issued under this chapter shall be valid for one raffle,
or for multiple raffles as specified in the application, covering a period of
no more than one year, unless suspended or revoked for violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 2004-39, 7-26-2004)
4-4-7: CONDUCT OF RAFFLES:
The conducting of raffles in the village is subject to the following:
   A.   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct that game.
   B.   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization may
participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
   C.   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating in
the management or operation of the raffle.
   D.   The maximum fee which may be charged for each raffle chance sold or
issued shall not exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00), except as modified
pursuant to subsection 4-4-8C of this chapter.
   E.   A licensee may rent premises on which to determine the winning chance
or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed under
this chapter.
   F.   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area specified on
the license, and winning chances may be determined only at those locations
specified on the license.
   G.   A person under the age of eighteen (18) years may participate in the
conducting of raffles or chances only with the permission of a parent or
guardian. A person under the age of eighteen (18) years may be within the area
where winning chances are being determined only when accompanied by his parent
or guardian. (Ord. 2004-39, 7-26-2004)
4-4-8: TICKETS AND PRIZES:
   A.   Tickets:
      1.   Each raffle ticket, chance or other raffle token shall state, on its
face, the name and address of the licensee, the date or dates of the drawings,
and the prize or prizes to be awarded; provided, however, that this requirement
shall not apply to any raffle in which prizes in aggregate value under fifty
dollars ($50.00) are awarded, or to any raffle in which raffle chances are sold
only on the date of the drawing during the event at which the drawing is to be
conducted. No such ticket, chance or token shall be sold or issued more than
two hundred forty (240) days before the determination of the winning chance or
chances.
      2.   If any raffle for which a license is issued under this chapter is
canceled, or if any such raffle is not conducted on the date contained in the
application for license, the licensee shall refund all monies paid for any
raffle chances issued or sold to the persons to whom such raffle chances were
issued or sold within forty five (45) days after the date on which the raffle
was to be conducted or within forty five (45) days after cancellation of the
raffle, whichever is sooner.
   B.   Prizes: The maximum cash prize awarded in any raffle shall be one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00); the maximum retail value of a noncash
prize awarded in any raffle shall be one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00). The aggregate value of all prizes awarded in any raffle shall
not exceed two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000.00), except as modified
pursuant to subsection C of this section.
   C.   Exceptions To Limits: Should the applicant wish to request either a
higher dollar cost for each raffle chance and/or a higher individual or total
prize value, said request shall be referred to the board of trustees for
consideration of such an exception. (Ord. 2004-39, 7-26-2004)
4-4-9: GAMBLING PROHIBITED:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to authorize the conducting or
operating of any gambling scheme, enterprise, activity or device other than a
raffle as provided herein. (Ord. 2004-39, 7-26-2004)
4-4-10: RAFFLE MANAGER:
All operation of and the conduct of raffles shall be under the supervision of a
single raffle manager designated by the organization. The manager shall provide
a fidelity bond in the sum of an amount determined by the village in favor of
the organization conditioned upon his honesty in the performance of his duties.
Terms of the bond shall provide that notice shall be given in writing to the
village not less than thirty (30) days prior to its cancellation. The village
administrator may waive this bond requirement when, due to the nature, past
experience or competence of the organization involved, the village
administrator determines that such bond would be unnecessarily burdensome. The
village administrator shall give notice of such waiver to the village president
and village board of trustees within five (5) days. Should the village
administrator determine that such a bond waiver should not be approved, the
applicant may appeal said decision to the village board of trustees within
fifteen (15) days. (Ord. 2004-39, 7-26-2004; amd. 2012 Code)
4-4-11: RECORDS AND REPORTS:
   A.   Records Kept:
      1.   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles and chances shall keep
records of its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each single
gathering or occasion at which winning chances are determined. All deductions
from gross receipts for each single gathering or occasion shall be documented
with receipts or other records indicating the amount, a description of the
purchased item or service or other reason for the deduction, and the recipient.
The distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee, purpose, amount
and date of payment.
      2.   Gross receipts from the operation of raffle programs shall be
segregated from other revenues of the organization, including bingo gross
receipts, if bingo games are also conducted by the same nonprofit organization
pursuant to license therefor issued by the department of revenue of the state
of Illinois, and placed in a separate account. Each organization shall have
separate records of its raffles. The person who accounts for gross receipts,
expense and net proceeds from the operation of raffles shall not be the same
person who accounts for other revenues of the organization.
   B.   Reports Required: Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall
report promptly after the conclusion of each raffle to its membership and to
the village clerk its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from raffles,
and the distribution of net proceeds itemized as required in this section.
   C.   Preservation Of Records: Records required by this section shall be
preserved for three (3) years, and organizations shall make available their
records relating to operation of raffles for public inspection at reasonable
times and places. (Ord. 2004-39, 7-26-2004)
4-4-12: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation found guilty of violating any provision of this
chapter shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2004-39, 7-26-2004; amd. 2012 Code)
4-4-13: PUBLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The village clerk may publish rules and regulations consistent with this
chapter or Illinois law governing the conduct of raffles licensed hereunder.
(Ord. 2004-39, 7-26-2004)
CHAPTER 5
VEHICLE SOLICITATION
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: Religious Or Charitable Solicitations
4-5-2-1: Permit Required
4-5-2-2: Application For Permit
4-5-2-3: No Permit Fee Required
4-5-2-4: Issuance Or Denial Of Permit
4-5-2-5: Revocation Or Suspension Of Permit
4-5-2-6: Time Limit On Soliciting
4-5-3: Identification Of Solicitor And Permittee
4-5-4: Person In Charge
4-5-5: Prohibited Acts
4-5-6: Violations; Penalty
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the indicated meanings
unless a different meaning is clearly required by the context:
CHARITABLE: Shall mean and include the words patriotic, philanthropic, social
service, welfare, benevolent, educational, civic or fraternal, either actual or
purported.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE SOLICITATION: Shall mean and include any one or more of the
following activities, not done for charitable purposes, by a person on streets
or highways within the village: The sale of, offer or attempt to sell to
persons riding in or operating motor vehicles or seeking to obtain orders for
the purchase of goods, wares, merchandise, foodstuff or services of any kind,
character or description, for any kind of consideration whatever.
CONTRIBUTION: Shall mean and include the words alms, food, clothing, money,
subscriptions, property or donations under the guise of a loan of money or
property.
INTERSECTION: The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if none, the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of
two (2) highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right angles;
and the shoulders and rights of way contiguous to the paved surface.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, copartnership, corporation, company, association
or joint stock association, church, religious sect, religious denomination,
society, organization or league, and includes any trustee, receiver, assignee,
agent or other similar representative thereof.
RELIGIOUS AND RELIGION: Shall not mean and include the word "charitable" as
defined in this section, but shall be given their commonly accepted
definitions.
RELIGIOUS OR CHARITABLE VEHICLE SOLICITATION: The oral or written request by a
person on streets or highways within the village, directly or indirectly, of
persons operating or riding in vehicles, for money, credit, property, financial
assistance or other thing of value on the plea or representation that such
money, credit, property, financial assistance or other thing of value will be
used for a religious or "charitable" purpose as those purposes are defined in
this section. Religious or charitable vehicle solicitation shall also mean and
include the following methods of securing money, credit, property, financial
assistance or other thing of value on the plea or representation that it will
be used for a religious or "charitable" purpose as defined in this section.
(Ord. 2004-21, 4-12-2004; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2012-43, 11-12-2012)
4-5-2: RELIGIOUS OR CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS:
4-5-2-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Every person desiring to engage in "religious or charitable vehicle
solicitation", as defined in section
4-5-1 of this chapter, from persons in vehicles on public roadways located in
the village is hereby required to make written application for a solicitation
permit as hereinafter provided and obtain such permit prior to engaging in
vehicle solicitation within the village. (Ord. 2004-21, 4-12-2004; amd. 2012
Code)
4-5-2-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
   A.   Application for religious or charitable vehicle solicitation permits
shall be made upon a form provided by, and shall be submitted to, the police
department, and shall include or be accompanied by the following:
      1.   The name, address and telephone number of the organization making
the application and the name under which it intends to solicit contributions,
and if applicable, proof that the organization is engaged in a statewide
fundraising activity. The soliciting organization shall maintain names,
addresses, telephone numbers and dates of birth in their files of all potential
solicitors. (Ord. 2004-21, 4-12-2004; amd. Ord. 2012-43, 11-12-2012)
      2.   The name, address and telephone number of the person in charge of
solicitation in the village. (Ord. 2004-21, 4-12-2004)
      3.   Such additional information which the chief of police may from time
to time require to verify that persons who will solicit contributions are
eligible for a permit under this chapter. (Ord. 2004-21, 4-12-2004; amd. Ord.
2012-43, 11-12-2012)
      4.   The dates and times of day such solicitations are to be made and the
intersections in the village wherein such solicitation shall be conducted at a
particular time and day. (Ord. 2004-21, 4-12-2004)
      5.   If applicable, a written statement of recent date by the attorney
general of Illinois that the organization is in compliance with the provisions
of an act to regulate solicitation and collection of funds for charitable
purposes, 225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 460/2, as such statute may hereafter
be amended. (Ord. 2004-21, 4-12-2004; amd. 2012 Code)
      6.   A written statement from the internal revenue service that the
organization is a tax exempt organization under the internal revenue code of
the United States, section 501(c)(3).
      7.   A certificate of insurance issued by an insurance company licensed
to do business in Illinois shall be provided to the village with the
application, insuring the solicitors and their organization for liability for
damages of personal injury and property damage causally related to an act of
ordinary negligence of the soliciting agent. The certificate must state that it
shall not be canceled during the period of solicitation and will provide at
least the following coverage:
 
Personal injury $ 500,000.00 per person
                1,000,000.00 per occurrence
Property damage 100,000.00
 
Nothing herein shall be construed to give permission to any solicitor to enter
into traffic intersections for the purpose of soliciting in contravention of
any state or local ordinance prohibiting such intersection solicitation.
   B.   All statements made by the applicant upon the application or in
connection therewith shall be under oath. (Ord. 2004-21, 4-12-2004)
   C.   The chief of police shall cause to be kept in the police department
offices an accurate record of every application received and acted upon,
together with all other information and data pertaining thereto, and copies of
all vehicle solicitation permits issued under the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Any individual agency desiring to solicit on roadways shall be:
      1.   If applicable, registered with the Illinois attorney general as a
charitable organization pursuant to subsection A5 of this section;
      2.   Liable for injuries to any person or property during the
solicitation which is causally related to an act of ordinary negligence of the
soliciting agent.
      3.   Required to verify that each solicitor is sixteen (16) years of age
or more and wears a high visibility vest. (Ord. 2012-43, 11-12-2012)
4-5-2-3: NO PERMIT FEE REQUIRED:
No fee shall be charged for a vehicle solicitation permit for religious or
charitable solicitation. (Ord. 2004-21, 4-12-2004)
4-5-2-4: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF PERMIT:
The chief of police, or an authorized designee, within five (5) business days
of filing of the application, after consideration, investigation and review of
the application and all information obtained relative thereto, shall deny the
application if the applicant is not entitled to a permit, pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, or if the application does not contain all of the
information and documentation as required herein. Endorsement shall be made by
the chief of police, or an authorized designee, on the application of the
reason for the denial of the application. If the applicant has complied with
all the provisions of this chapter, the vehicle solicitation permit shall be
issued forthwith and sent by the police department to the applicant. (Ord.
2012-43, 11-12-2012)
4-5-2-5: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Any religious or charitable vehicle solicitation permit issued
hereunder shall be revoked by the chief of police, or an authorized designee if
the holder of the permit or anyone soliciting under the permit is convicted of
a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, or has made a false
material statement in the application, or otherwise becomes disqualified for
the issuance of a solicitation permit under the terms of this chapter.
Immediately upon such revocation, written notice thereof shall be given by the
chief of police, or an authorized designee to the holder of the permit in
person, or by U.S. mail, return receipt requested, addressed to his residence
address set forth in the application. The permit shall become null and void
upon the first to occur of the following: (Ord. 2004-21, 4-12-2004; amd. Ord.
2012-43, 11-12-2012)
      1.   Actual notice of revocation shall be made by the village to the
individual or organization.
      2.   Receipt of the return receipt of the mailed notice to the individual
or organization, whether or not delivered to the permit holder personally,
shall be retained by the village. (Ord. 2004-21, 4-12-2004)
   B.   The chief of police, or an authorized designee may temporarily revoke
or suspend a permit if public safety issues arise, such as an injury to the
public or a violation of state law or other village ordinances, after issuance
of the permit which the chief of police reasonably believes require suspension
of solicitation.
   C.   The village administrator shall hear appeals on the denial of an
application for a vehicle solicitation permit or the permanent or temporary
revocation of a permit by the chief of police. A written appeal must be filed
in the office of the village administrator within twenty one (21) days after
the date of denial of the application or revocation of the permit by the chief
of police.
   D.   The appealing party shall submit what documentation it desires to have
the village administrator consider with the written appeal, and the village
administrator shall render a written decision within fourteen (14) days of the
filing of the written appeal.
   E.   The village administrator shall not be bound by the rules of evidence
prevailing in the courts of law but shall, in ascertaining the conditions and
practices involved in the decision appealed, take into account all reliable,
probative and substantial evidence produced by the appealing party relating to
the denial of the application or revocation of the permit. (Ord. 2012-43, 11-
12-2012)
4-5-2-6: TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING:
It shall be unlawful to engage in religious or charitable vehicle solicitation
on sidewalks, streets or highways within the village before the hour of seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. and after the hour of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. (Ord. 2012-
43, 11-12-2012)
4-5-3: IDENTIFICATION OF SOLICITOR AND PERMITTEE:
   A.   All persons engaged in religious or charitable vehicle solicitation are
required to wear identification on the exterior of their clothing identifying
them individually by name.
   B.   Every person engaged in religious or charitable vehicle solicitation
for the permittee shall display in a visible place upon his person information
identifying the full name of the organization for which he is soliciting. (Ord.
2004-21, 4-12-2004; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2012-43, 11-12-2012)
4-5-4: PERSON IN CHARGE:
There must be a person in charge of the solicitation activity within the
village limits who is present on site during the period of solicitation and who
has an operating cellular telephone with him at all times. The police
department must be provided with the name of the person and the cellular
telephone number of that person. (Ord. 2004-21, 4-12-2004)
4-5-5: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any individual to solicit on any highway or
street within the village without wearing highly visible clothing or garments.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to file an application for permit
which contains false, misleading or untrue information.
   C.   Nothing contained in this chapter shall release or relieve any person
from complying with any additional license requirement established by the
village.
   D.   No solicitor may knock on vehicles or their windows, nor obstruct or
impede traffic.
   E.   Solicitors shall not attempt to solicit from operators of vehicles when
a traffic signal is other than red or upon approach of a vehicle to a stop
sign. (Ord. 2004-21, 4-12-2004)
   F.   No "commercial vehicle solicitation", as defined in section
4-5-1 of this chapter, is permitted at any time within the village.
   G.   Religious or charitable vehicle solicitation on roadways will be
permitted by the chief of police after receipt of a written application
submitted thirty (30) days prior to the day requested for such vehicle
solicitation.
      1.   All such applications shall be filed with the police department.
      2.   This subsection applies to all streets and public roadways in the
village.
   H.   Religious or charitable vehicle solicitation on roadways shall not be
permitted except at intersections where all traffic is required to come to a
full stop, and at intersections listed in subsection I of this section.
   I.   Religious or charitable solicitation will not be allowed at any time on
or adjacent to the following intersections because of safety concerns for
pedestrian and motor vehicle traffic at these locations:
Army Trail Road and Glen Ellyn Road.
Army Trail Road and Schmale Road.
Bloomingdale Road and Lake Street (U.S. Route 20).
Medinah Road and Lake Street (U.S. Route 20).
   J.   No solicitation shall be permitted at any time at a specific location
if the roadway or the adjacent right of way is under construction or repair.
   K.   All individuals conducting solicitation under authority of a permit
issued pursuant to the terms of this chapter shall prominently display the name
of the organization for which they are soliciting upon their person so that it
is clearly visible to the motoring public. (Ord. 2012-43, 11-12-2012)
4-5-6: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
Any person who violates a provision of this chapter shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each offense shall result in a fine in the amount not less
than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). Any citation issued hereunder shall
specify the section of this chapter which was allegedly violated. The burden of
proof for such violations is by a preponderance of the evidence. (Ord. 2004-21,
4-12-2004; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2012-43, 11-12-2012; Ord. 2020-34, 11-23-2020)
CHAPTER 5A
RESIDENTIAL SOLICITATION
SECTION:
4-5A-1: Definitions
4-5A-2: Certificate Of Registration
4-5A-3: Application For Certificate Of Registration
4-5A-4: Issuance And Revocation Of Certificate
4-5A-5: Notice Regulating Soliciting
4-5A-6: Limitations On Soliciting
4-5A-7: Fees
4-5A-8: Penalty
4-5A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words as used herein shall be
construed to have the meaning herein ascribed thereto:
REGISTERED SOLICITOR: Shall mean and include any person who has obtained a
valid certificate of registration as hereinafter provided, and which
certificate is in the possession of the solicitor on his or her person while
engaged in soliciting.
RESIDENCE: Shall mean and include every separate living unit occupied for
dwelling purposes by one or more persons, contained within any type of building
or structure.
SOLICITING OR SOLICITATION: A. Shall mean and include any one or more of the
following activities:
      1.   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs, services, of any kind, character or description
whatever, for any kind of consideration whatever; or
      2.   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for applications or purchase
of insurance of any type, kind or character; or
      3.   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type or kind of publications; or
      4.   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit
association, organization, corporation, or project.
   B.   Soliciting or solicitation shall not include:
      1.   Any of the foregoing activities when undertaken by any person
pursuant to a previous appointment or invitation from the property owner or
occupant of a residence; or
      2.   Canvassing or calling from house to house only for the purpose of
communicating issues of general interest to the public, circulating petitions
concerning matters of public policy, taking surveys or opinion polls,
campaigning for candidates for public office or public questions, or
communicating religious beliefs.
Due to the promotion of life, health and safety in residential areas, while the
activities listed in subsections B1 and B2 of this definition are generally not
regulated, they are subject to the restrictions as listed in subsection 4-5A-6D
of this chapter.
SOLICITOR: Any person who engages in solicitation. (Ord. 71-76, 9-8-1971; amd.
Ord. 2012-43, 11-12-2012)
4-5A-2: CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION:
Every person desiring to engage in "soliciting" as herein defined, from persons
in residences within the village, is hereby required to make written
application for a certificate of registration as hereinafter provided. (Ord.
71-76, 9-8-1971; amd. Ord. 2012-43, 11-12-2012)
4-5A-3: APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION:
   A.   Application for a certificate of registration shall be made upon a form
provided by the chief of police and filed with the police department. The
applicant shall truthfully state in full the information requested on the
application:
      1.   Name and address of present place of residence of the applicant;
      2.   Age of applicant;
      3.   Physical description of the applicant;
      4.   Name and address of the person, firm or corporation or association
by whom the applicant is employed or represents; and the length of time of such
employment or representation;
      5.   A description of the product or subject matter of the soliciting in
which the applicant will engage;
      6.   Period of time for which the certificate is applied;
      7.   The date, or approximate date, of the latest previous application
for certificate under this chapter, if any;
      8.   Whether or not certificate of registration issued to the applicant
under this chapter has ever been revoked;
      9.   Whether or not the applicant has been convicted of violating the
provisions of this chapter, or violating the ordinance of any other Illinois
municipality regulating soliciting within five (5) years of the date of the
application;
      10.   Whether or not the applicant has been convicted of the commission
of a felony under the laws of the state of Illinois or any other state, or
under federal law within five (5) years of the date of the application;
      11.   Such additional information as the chief of police may deem
necessary to process the application.
   B.   All statements made by the applicant under the application or in
connection therewith shall be under oath.
   C.   The chief of police shall keep an accurate record of every application
received and acted upon, together with all other information and data
pertaining thereto, and all certificates of registration issued under the
provisions of this chapter, and of the denial of applications.
   D.   A certificate of registration will not be issued to any person in the
following circumstances:
      1.   A person who has been convicted of the commission of a felony under
the laws of the state of Illinois or any other state, within five (5) years of
the date of the application;
      2.   A person who has been convicted of the commission of a felony under
federal law, within five (5) years of the date of the application;
      3.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter, within five (5) years of the date of the
application;
      4.   A person whose certificate of registration from the village has
previously been revoked as herein provided, within five (5) years of the date
of the application; or
      5.   To a person who has ever been convicted of a sex offense as defined
by 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-0.1 et seq., or any other equivalent law
of any other state. (Ord. 2012-43, 11-12-2012)
4-5A-4: ISSUANCE AND REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE:
   A.   The chief of police, within five (5) business days of filing of the
application, after consideration, investigation and review of the application
and all information obtained relative thereto, shall deny the application if
the applicant is not entitled to a certificate, pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter, or if the application does not contain all of the information and
documentation as required herein. Endorsement shall be made by the chief of
police, or an authorized designee, on the application of the reason for the
denial of the application. If the applicant has complied with all the
provisions of this chapter, the certificate of registration shall be issued
forthwith and sent by the police department to the applicant.
   B.   Any certificate of registration issued hereunder shall be revoked by
the chief of police if the holder of the certificate is convicted of a
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, or has made a false
material statement in the application, or otherwise becomes disqualified for
the issuance of a certificate of registration under the terms of this chapter.
   C.   Immediately upon such revocation, written notice thereof shall be given
by the chief of police to the holder of the certificate in person or by
certified U.S. mail addressed to applicant's address set forth in the
application.
   D.   The certificate of registration shall state the expiration date
thereof.
   E.   The village administrator shall hear appeals on the denial of an
application for a certificate of registration or the permanent or temporary
revocation of a certificate of registration by the chief of police. A written
appeal must be filed in the office of the village administrator within twenty
one (21) days after the date of denial of the application or revocation of the
certificate of registration by the chief of police.
   F.   The appealing party shall submit what documentation it desires to have
the village administrator consider with the written appeal, and the village
administrator shall render a written decision within fourteen (14) days of the
filing of the written appeal.
   G.   The village administrator shall not be bound by the rules of evidence
prevailing in the courts of law but shall, in ascertaining the conditions and
practices involved in the decision appealed, take into account all reliable,
probative and substantial evidence produced by the appealing party relating to
the denial of the application or revocation of the certificate of registration.
(Ord. 2012-43, 11-12-2012)
4-5A-5: NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING:
Every residential property owner or occupant of a residence desiring to secure
the protection intended to be provided by the regulations pertaining to
soliciting contained in this chapter, shall comply with the following
directions:
   A.   Notice of the determination by the residential property owner or
occupant of a residence of giving invitation to solicitors, or the refusal of
invitation to solicitors, to any residence, shall be given in the manner
following:
A sign, no larger than is allowed by the village sign code herein, shall be
exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence, indicating the
determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words, as follows:
   NO SOLICITORS INVITED
   B.   Such sign so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the residential property owner or occupant of
a residence of the information contained thereon. (Ord. 2012-43, 11-12-2012)
4-5A-6: LIMITATIONS ON SOLICITING:
   A.   Invitations By Property Owner Or Occupant: The property owner or
occupant of a residence in the village shall make the determination of whether
solicitors shall be, or shall not be, invited to their residence.
   B.   Notice: It shall be the duty of every solicitor, upon going onto any
premises in the village upon which a "residence" as herein defined is located,
to first examine the notice provided for in section
4-5A-5 of this chapter, if any is attached, and be governed by the statement
contained on the notice. If the notice states "Only Solicitors Registered In
Bloomingdale Invited", then the solicitor not possessing a valid certificate of
registration as herein provided shall immediately and peacefully depart from
the premises; and if the notice states "No Solicitors Invited", then the
solicitor, whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart
from the premises.
   C.   Requested Departure: Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any
residence, whether invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from
the premises when requested to do so by the property owner or occupant.
   D.   Dates And Times: It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall
constitute a nuisance for any person to go upon any premises and ring the
doorbell upon or near any door, or rap or knock on any door, or create any
sound in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the occupant
of such residence, for the purpose of securing any audience with the occupant
thereof and to "solicit", as defined in this chapter, prior to nine o'clock (9:
00) A.M. or after seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. CST of any weekday, or at any time
on a Sunday or on a state or federal holiday, or in defiance of the notice
exhibited at the residence in accordance with the provisions of section
4-5A-5 of this chapter.
   E.   Identification Badges: It shall be unlawful for any solicitor to fail
to wear an identification badge on his or her outer garments that is visible at
all times. Such badge shall be issued by the police department, and shall
contain the name of the peddler or solicitor, and the name of the group or
organization, if any, on whose behalf the peddler or solicitor is conducting
activities that are regulated under this chapter.
   F.   Rescission Or Cancellation Of Sale: It shall be unlawful for any person
who engages in soliciting to misrepresent the right of a buyer to rescind or
cancel a sale under the provisions of applicable law.
   G.   Unlawful Acts: It shall be unlawful for any person who engages in
soliciting to use any false plan, scheme or ruse; to cheat, deceive, or make
any fraudulent misrepresentation while acting as a solicitor in the village,
whether through the company or organization or through an employee or solicitor
thereof. (Ord. 2012-43, 11-12-2012)
4-5A-7: FEES:
The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be twenty five dollars
($25.00) per solicitor for every solicitation request. (Ord. 2012-43, 11-12-
2012)
4-5A-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 71-76, 9-8-1971; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2012-43, 11-12-
2012)
CHAPTER 6
TOBACCO PRODUCTS SALES
SECTION:
4-6-1: Definitions
4-6-2: License Required
4-6-3: Prohibited Sales; Signs
4-6-4: Minimum Age To Sell Tobacco Products
4-6-5: Purchase By Persons Under 21 Years Of Age Prohibited
4-6-6: Possession By Persons Under 21 Years Of Age Prohibited
4-6-7: Proximity To Certain Institutions
4-6-8: Responsibility For Agents And Employees
4-6-9: Suspension, Revocation Of License; Fines, Costs
4-6-10: Use Of Premises After Revocation
4-6-11: Applicant Acknowledgment
4-6-12: Violation; Penalty
4-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT: A product or device not consisting of or
containing tobacco that provides for the ingestion into the body of nicotine,
whether by chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, inhaling, snorting,
sniffing, or by any other means. "Alternative nicotine product" does not
include: cigarettes as defined in Section 1 of the Cigarette Tax Act and
tobacco products as defined in Section 10-5 of the Tobacco Products Tax Act of
1995; tobacco product and electronic cigarette as defined in this Section; or
any product approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration for sale
as a tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco dependence product, or for other
medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely for that approved
purpose.
BUSINESS SELLING TOBACCO PRODUCTS: A retail establishment of any kind that is
engaged in the sale of “tobacco products,” “electronic cigarettes,” or
“alternative nicotine products” as defined herein.
CANNABIS: Includes marijuana, hashish and other substances which are identified
as including any part of the plant Cannabis sativa and including derivatives or
subspecies, such as indica, of all strains of cannabis, whether growing or not;
the seeds thereof and the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and any
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of such plant,
its seeds or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other
cannabinol derivatives, including its naturally occurring or synthetically
produced ingredients, whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction, or
independently by means of chemical synthesis or by a combination of extraction
and chemical synthesis; but shall not include the mature stalks of such plant,
fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant,
and any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation
of such mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or
cake or the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of germination.
CANNABIS PRODUCTS: Any product, consumable, or other device containing
Cannabis, or any derivative, cannabinoid, or isomer of hemp including
tetrahydrocannabinols other than Delta 9 THC.
ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE:
   A.   Any device that employs a battery or other mechanism to heat a solution
or substance to produce a vapor or aerosol intended for inhalation;
   B.   Any cartridge or container of a solution or substance intended to be
used with or in the device or to refill the device; or
   C.   Any solution or substance, whether or not it contains nicotine intended
for use in the device.
   Electronic cigarette includes, but is not limited to, any electronic
nicotine delivery system, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic
pipe, electronic hookah, vape pen, or similar product or device, any components
or parts that can be used to build the product or device, and any component,
part, or accessory of a device used during the operation of the device, even if
the part or accessory was sold separately. "Electronic cigarette" does not
include: cigarettes as defined in Section 1 of the Cigarette Tax Act; tobacco
product and alternative nicotine product as defined in this Section; any
product approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as
a tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco dependence product, or for other
medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely for that approved
purpose; any asthma inhaler prescribed by a physician for that condition and is
being marketed and sold solely for that approved purpose; any device that meets
the definition of cannabis paraphernalia under Section 1-10 of the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act; or any cannabis product sold by a dispensing
organization pursuant to the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act or the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act.
NICOTINE: Any form of the chemical nicotine, including any salt or complex,
regardless of whether the chemical is naturally or synthetically derived.
SELL OR SALE: To sell or offer for sale at retail, barter, exchange, deliver or
give away or cause or permit a sale at retail, barter, exchange, delivery or
giving away.
TOBACCO PRODUCTS: Any product containing or made from tobacco that is intended
for human consumption, whether smoked, heated, chewed, absorbed, dissolved,
inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means, including, but not
limited to, cigarettes, cigars, little cigars, chewing tobacco, pipe tobacco,
snuff, snus, and any other smokeless tobacco product which contains tobacco
that is finely cut, ground, powdered, or leaf and intended to be placed in the
oral cavity. "Tobacco product" includes any component, part, or accessory of a
tobacco product, whether or not sold separately. "Tobacco product" does not
include: an alternative nicotine product as defined in this Section; or any
product that has been approved by the United States Food and Drug
Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco dependence
product, or for other medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely
for that approved purpose.
VENDING MACHINE: Any mechanical, electric or electronic self-service device,
which upon insertion of money, tokens or any other form of payment dispenses
tobacco products. (Ord. 2012-09, 1-23-2012; amd. Ord. 2023-22, 4-23-2023)  
4-6-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall operate a business primarily selling tobacco products
or selling tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, or alternative nicotine
products over the counter in conjunction with its primary type of business
without first having obtained a license for such business. Application for such
license shall be made in conformity with the requirements of this title. Such
license shall be in addition to any other license required by this code.
   B.   No person shall operate or maintain within the village any vending
machine for the sale of any tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, Cannabis
Products, or alternative nicotine products, nor sell any such products by means
of a vending machine without first having obtained a license according to the
requirements of this title. Such license shall be in addition to any other
license required by this code. (Ord. 2012-09, 1-23-2012; amd. Ord. 2023-22, 4-
23-2023)
4-6-3: PROHIBITED SALES; SIGNS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, including any licensee, to sell,
offer for sale or deliver tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, or
alternative nicotine products to any person under the age of twenty-one (21)
years. A seller of tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, or alternative
nicotine products must check the identification, including the bearer's date of
birth and photograph, of all persons twenty-six (26) years of age, or younger,
to verify that they are at least twenty-one (21) years old.
   B.   Any person operating a business selling tobacco products, electronic
cigarettes, or alternative nicotine products, or where vending machines are
located, shall post a sign informing the public of the age restrictions
provided herein in a conspicuous place upon the premises or machine. Each such
sign shall be plainly visible and shall state:
      THE SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS AND SMOKING ACCESSORIES TO PERSONS UNDER 21
YEARS OF AGE IS PROHIBITED BY LAW. WE CHECK I.D.'S OF ALL CUSTOMERS UNDER AGE
27.
   The text of such signs shall be in red letters on a white background, said
letters to be at least one inch (1") high.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person, including a licensee, to give away
free samples of tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, or alternative
nicotine products.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person, including a licensee, to sell
single cigarettes ("loosies") or packs with fewer than twenty (20) cigarettes
("kiddie packs"), that are not contained within a sealed container, pack or
package, as provided by the manufacturer, which container, pack or package
bears the health warning required by federal law.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any person, including any licensee, to redeem
a coupon for a tobacco product through the mail rather than at a face to face
exchange in a store.
   F.   It shall be unlawful for any person, including any licensee, to give
away any gift or item to anyone in exchange for a tobacco proof of purchase or
as a part of a sale of tobacco products.
   G.   It shall be unlawful for any person, including any licensee or any
manager, employee or agent of any such licensee, to sell, offer for sale at
retail, deliver or to keep with the intention of selling at retail, or to
advertise or promote tobacco products on any right of way, park, playground or
other property owned by the village, any school district, or any park district.
   H.   Except for a person operating a business selling tobacco products, no
person shall sell cigarette paper. No person shall sell cigarette paper from a
vending machine.
   I.   No person shall sell tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, or
alternative nicotine products from a vending machine that also sells nontobacco
products, with the exception of matches, unless such vending machine is located
in one of the following places:
      1.   Places to which persons under twenty-one (21) years of age are not
permitted access;
      2.   Places where alcoholic beverages are sold and consumed on the
premises and vending machine operation is under the direct supervision of the
owner or manager; and
      3.   Places where the vending machine is locked and can only be operated
by the owner or an employee over twenty-one (21) years of age, either directly
or through a remote control device if the device is accessible to all
customers.
   J.   It shall be unlawful for any person, including any licensee, to sell,
offer for sale or deliver any Cannabis Products. (Ord. 2012-09, 1-23-2012; amd.
Ord. 2019-34, 11-11-2019; Ord. 2023-22, 4-24-2023)
4-6-4: MINIMUM AGE TO SELL TOBACCO PRODUCTS:
No person under sixteen (16) years of age may sell any tobacco products,
electronic cigarettes, or alternative nicotine products at a retail
establishment selling such products. No person operating a business selling
tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, or alternative nicotine products, or
any officer, manager, agent or employee of such a business, shall engage,
employ or permit any person under sixteen (16) years of age to sell tobacco
products, electronic cigarettes, or alternative nicotine products in any
licensed premises. This restriction shall not apply to a sales clerk in a
family owned business that can prove that the sales clerk is, in fact, a son or
daughter of the owner. (Ord. 2012-09, 1-23-2012; Ord. 2023-22, 4-24-2023)
4-6-5: PURCHASE BY PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years to
purchase tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, or alternative nicotine
products or to misrepresent their identity or age or to use any false or forged
identification card for the purpose of purchasing tobacco products, electronic
cigarettes, or alternative nicotine products. (Ord. 2012-09, 1-23-2012; amd.
Ord. 2019-34, 11-11-2019; Ord. 2023-22, 4-24-2023)
4-6-6: POSSESSION BY PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years to
possess any tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, or alternative nicotine
products, provided that the possession by a person under the age of twenty-one
(21) years under the direct supervision of the parent or guardian of such
person in the privacy of the parent's or guardian's home shall not be
prohibited. (Ord. 2012-09, 1-23-2012; amd. Ord. 2019-34, 11-11-2019; Ord. 2023-
22, 4-24-2023)
4-6-7: PROXIMITY TO CERTAIN INSTITUTIONS:
No person shall sell tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, or alternative
nicotine products within one hundred feet (100') of any school, childcare
facility or other building used for education or recreational programs for
persons under twenty-one (21) years of age, provided that this section shall
not apply to a business lawfully existing on the date this chapter is adopted.
The one hundred feet (100') limitation would be measured from the front door of
each building or facility in question. In the event such a business ceases the
sale of tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, or alternative nicotine
products for any reason for a period of six (6) months or more, except by
reason of license suspension or revocation as provided herein, then such
business shall comply with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2012-09, 1-23-
2012; amd. Ord. 2019-34, 11-11-2019; Ord. 2023-22, 4-24-2023)
4-6-8: RESPONSIBILITY FOR AGENTS AND EMPLOYEES:
Every act or omission of whatever nature constituting a violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter by any officer, director, manager or other agent or
employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of such
licensee and such licensee shall be punishable in the same manner as if such
act or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee personally. (Ord.
2012-09, 1-23-2012)
4-6-9: SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF LICENSE; FINES, COSTS:
   A.   The village president or an authorized designee shall be charged with
the administration of this chapter. The village president may suspend or revoke
any license issued under the provisions of this chapter if it is determined
that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of this chapter or any
other village ordinance or requirement.
   B.   No license shall be suspended or revoked, nor any administrative fines
or costs imposed without a public hearing called by the village president. The
licensee shall receive notice, at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing, of
the charges and the time and place of the hearing. Notice shall be by certified
or registered mail or by personal delivery to the licensee's premises.
   C.   The village president shall, within seven (7) days after such hearing,
if it is determined after such hearing that the license should be revoked or
suspended, state the reason for such determination in a written order and the
period of suspension or that the license has been revoked, and serve a copy of
such order within the seven (7) days upon the licensee.
   D.   Any licensee determined by the village president to have violated any
of the provisions of this chapter shall pay to the village the costs of the
hearing before the village president on such violations. The village president
shall determine the costs incurred by the village for said hearing including,
but not limited to, court reporter fees, the costs of transcripts or records,
attorney fees, the costs of preparing and mailing notices and orders, and all
other miscellaneous expenses incurred by the village or such lesser sum as the
village president may allow. The licensee shall pay said costs to the village
within thirty (30) days of notification of the costs by the village president.
Failure to pay said costs within thirty (30) days of notification is a
violation of this chapter and may be cause for license suspension or
revocation. (Ord. 2012-09, 1-23-2012)
4-6-10: USE OF PREMISES AFTER REVOCATION:
When any license shall have been revoked for any cause, no license shall be
granted to said licensee for the period of six (6) months thereafter for the
conduct of the business of selling tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, or
alternative nicotine products in the premises described in such revoked
license. (Ord. 2012-09, 1-23-2012; amd. Ord. 2023-22, 4-24-2023)
4-6-11: APPLICANT ACKNOWLEDGMENT:
The application for a tobacco dealer's license shall state immediately above
the applicant's signature line the following:
   I hereby acknowledge receipt of a copy of the Village of Bloomingdale
Ordinance providing for the Comprehensive Regulation of Tobacco Products,
electronic cigarettes, or alternative nicotine products (title 4, chapter 6 of
the village code) and having applied for a tobacco dealers license do hereby
accept, concur and agree to comply with the terms and regulations of the
Ordinance in its entirety.
(Ord. 2012-09, 1-23-2012; amd. Ord. 2023-22, 4-24-2023)
4-6-12: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating the terms and conditions of this chapter shall be subject
to a penalty not less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) and not
exceeding seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), with each and every day that
the violation of this chapter is allowed to remain in effect being deemed a
complete and separate offense. In addition, the appropriate authorities of the
village may take such other action as they deem proper to enforce the terms and
conditions of this chapter, including, without limitation, an action in equity
to compel compliance with its terms. Any person violating the terms of this
chapter shall be subject, in addition to the foregoing penalties, to the
payment of court costs and reasonable attorney fees. (Ord. 2012-09, 1-23-2012;
amd. Ord. 2020-34, 11-23-2020)
CHAPTER 7
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
4-7-1: Definitions
4-7-2: Permits And Licenses Required
4-7-3: Application For License
4-7-4: Review Of Application; Grant Or Denial Of License; Issuance
4-7-5: License Fees
4-7-6: Terms Of License
4-7-7: Display Of License
4-7-8: Transfer Of License
4-7-9: Renewal Of License
4-7-10: Advertising Restrictions
4-7-11: Employees
4-7-12: Facility Requirements
4-7-13: Operating Requirements
4-7-14: Outcall Massage Services Prohibited
4-7-15: Inspections
4-7-16: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
4-7-17: Exemptions
4-7-18: Existing Businesses
4-7-19: Violations; Penalties
4-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following words, terms and phrases shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
EMPLOYEE: Any and all persons, other than the licensed massage therapists, who
render any service to the owner, operator, license holder (licensee) of the
establishment or patrons, who receive compensation directly from the owner,
operator, license holder (licensee) of the establishment or patrons, and who
have no physical contact with clients or patrons.
HEALTH OFFICER: An inspecting officer of the DuPage County health department.
LICENSED MASSAGE THERAPIST: An individual who is licensed by the state of
Illinois under the massage licensing act 1 .
LICENSEE OR LICENSE HOLDER: The owner, operator or individual granted a massage
establishment license.
MASSAGE: Any method of pressure on or friction against or stroking, kneading,
rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating or stimulating of the external soft parts
of the body with the hands or with the aid of any object, mechanical or
electrical apparatus or appliance, with or without such supplementary aids as
rubbing alcohol, liniments, antiseptics, oils, powders, creams, lotions,
ointments or other similar preparations.
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT: Any establishment having a fixed place of business where
any person, firm, association or corporation engages in, or carries on, or
permits to be engaged in or carried on, for hire, any of the activities of the
practice of massage.
OUTCALL MASSAGE SERVICE: Any business, the function of which is to engage in or
carry on massages at a location designated by the customer or client rather
than at a massage establishment.
PERSON: Any individual, copartnership, firm, association, joint stock company,
corporation, or combination of individuals of whatever form or character.
SEXUAL OR GENITAL AREA: The genitals, pubic area, anus, or perineum of any
person, and the vulva or breast of a female. (Ord. 2005-12, 3-14-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 57.
4-7-2: PERMITS AND LICENSES REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, conduct or carry on, or to
permit to be engaged in, conducted or carried on, in or upon any premises in
the Village, the operation of a "massage establishment" as defined in section
4-7-1 of this chapter, without first having obtained the required building and/
or occupancy permits and licenses for a massage establishment. (Ord. 2005-12,
3-14-2005; amd. 2012 Code)
4-7-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Every applicant for a license to maintain, operate or conduct a massage
establishment shall file an application with the Building Department, upon a
form provided by the Village and pay a nonrefundable application fee as set
forth in section
4-1-5-1 of this title. The annual business license fee for a massage
establishment is set forth in section
4-1-5-1 of this title. The applicant for a license to operate a massage
establishment shall furnish the following information: (Ord. 2005-12, 3-14-
2005; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
   A.   Name (including any alias) and address.
   B.   Written proof that the individual is at least eighteen (18) years of
age.
   C.   All residential addresses for the past three (3) years.
   D.   Date of birth.
   E.   Social security number.
   F.   Driver's license number.
   G.   The business, occupation or employment of the applicant for the four
(4) years immediately preceding the date of application.
   H.   The massage or similar business license or permit history of the
applicant; whether such person, in previously operating in the Village or
another city or state under license or permit, has had such license or permit
revoked or suspended, the reason therefor, and the business activity or
occupation subsequent to such action or revocation.
   I.   All criminal or ordinance violation convictions, including forfeiture
of bond or pleadings of nolo contendere, on all Federal, State and local
charges, except minor traffic violations.
   J.   A recent photograph of the applicant.
   K.   If the applicant is a corporation, or a partner of a partnership is a
corporation, the name of the corporation exactly as shown in its articles of
incorporation. A copy of its articles of incorporation and/or permission to do
business in the State of Illinois shall be attached.
   L.   The information required in subsections A through K of this section
shall be required for the following individuals:
      1.   The operator, manager or owner.
      2.   Any partner or limited partner of a partnership application.
      3.   Any officer, director or greater than ten percent (10%) stockholder
of a corporate applicant or corporate partnership, if a partnership.
   M.   The application for a license to operate a massage establishment shall,
each license year applied for, state the names of the individuals who shall be
licensed massage therapists, whether employees or independent contractors. The
application shall be revised as additional licensed massage therapists are
employed or allowed to work on the premises. A copy of the State license issued
to any such massage therapist shall accompany said application.
   N.   The applicant for a massage establishment license shall also sign an
affirmative statement accepting full responsibility for any acts of an
independent contractor who is licensed as a massage therapist employed or
allowed to work on the premises. Any violation of Village ordinance or Federal
or State law by the licensed massage therapist on the premises of the massage
establishment shall be grounds to revoke, suspend or fine the massage
establishment license holder. Lack of knowledge of the activities of a licensed
massage therapist by the massage establishment license holder shall not be a
defense.
   O.   The applicant shall submit to fingerprinting as required by the Village
Police Department. (Ord. 2005-12, 3-14-2005)
4-7-4: REVIEW OF APPLICATION; GRANT OR DENIAL OF LICENSE; ISSUANCE:
   A.   Review Of Application: The Village Police Department and Building
Department, will make an investigation based on the application information
submitted and the proposed business location for the massage establishment;
final review and approval to be made by the Village President. (Ord. 2005-12,
3-14-2005; amd. Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
      1.   Police Department Review: The Chief of Police shall investigate and
report in connection with the accuracy of the information submitted as required
by this chapter. The Chief of Police may delegate the investigative, inspecting
and reporting responsibilities imposed by this chapter. The Chief of Police
shall issue a report of investigative findings to the Village President. The
report shall advise as to whether the applicant has been convicted of:
         a.   A felony.
         b.   An offense involving sexual misconduct with children.
         c.   Prostitution, soliciting for a prostitute, pandering, keeping or
residing in a place of prostitution, pimping or any other offense involving
moral turpitude in relation to sexual misconduct.
      2.   Building Department Review: The Building Commissioner shall inspect
and report in connection with full compliance with respective Village Building,
Plumbing, Electrical, Mechanical, Property Maintenance, Fire, Life Safety,
Health, Zoning and all other applicable Codes and ordinances. The Building
Commissioner may delegate the inspecting and reporting responsibilities imposed
by this chapter.
   B.   Grant, Denial Or Additional Review Of License:
      1.   Within thirty (30) days of receipt of reports from the aforesaid
departments, the Village President shall notify the applicant that his
application is granted, denied or held for further review. The period of such
additional review shall not exceed an additional thirty (30) days unless
otherwise agreed to by the applicant. Upon conclusion of such additional
review, the Village President shall advise the applicant in writing whether the
application is granted or denied.
      2.   Whenever an application is denied or held for further review, the
Village President shall advise the applicant of the reasons for such action. An
application may be denied by the Village President based on the report of
findings required by subsection A of this section. The failure or refusal of
the applicant to promptly give any information relevant to the investigation of
the application, or refusal or failure to appear at any reasonable time and
place for examination under oath regarding said application, or refusal or
failure to submit to or cooperate with any inspection required by this chapter
shall constitute an admission by the applicant that he is ineligible for such
license and shall be grounds for denial thereof by the Village President.
   C.   Issuance Of License: Upon receipt of the written recommendations of the
departments referred to in this section, the Village President shall issue a
license to maintain a massage establishment. (Ord. 2005-12, 3-14-2005)
4-7-5: LICENSE FEES:
The fees for licenses regulated by this chapter are as follows: (Ord. 2005-12,
3-14-2005)
   A.   Filing Fee: Each applicant for a massage establishment license shall
pay a nonrefundable filing fee of four hundred dollars ($400.00) for an
original application, to include the initial business license if issued. (Ord.
2005-12, 3-14-2005; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Renewal Fee: Each applicant renewing a massage establishment license
shall pay a renewal fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00) each year for renewal.
(Ord. 2005-12, 3-14-2005)
4-7-6: TERMS OF LICENSE:
The terms of massage establishment licenses are as follows:
   A.   Expiration Date: Every massage establishment license issued pursuant to
this chapter shall be issued for the balance of the license year and shall
expire on April 30 of the license year, unless the license is suspended or
revoked on a sooner date by the Village President.
   B.   No Proration Of Fees: License fees shall not be prorated.
   C.   Licensed Massage Therapist Required: It shall be unlawful to engage in,
conduct, operate, carry on, or permit to be engaged in, conducted, operated or
carried on, in or upon any premises in the Village, the business of a massage
establishment without having at least one licensed massage therapist employed
on the premises. The massage establishment license holder may allow independent
contractors to work on the premises, so long as the massage establishment
license holder is responsible for the acts of the licensed massage therapists.
Any independent contractor shall be deemed to be an agent of the massage
establishment licensee while working on the premises. The massage establishment
licensee shall be held responsible for violation of Federal, State or local
ordinance laws regarding the activities of the licensed massage therapist.
(Ord. 2005-12, 3-14-2005)
4-7-7: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Every massage establishment license holder shall display a valid license in a
conspicuous place within the massage establishment so that the same may be
readily seen by persons entering the premises. (Ord. 2005-12, 3-14-2005)
4-7-8: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
No license for the operation of a massage establishment issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter shall be transferable. However, upon the death or
incapacity of the licensee, the massage establishment may continue in business
for a reasonable period of time to allow for an orderly transfer of the
license, but such period shall not exceed sixty (60) days. (Ord. 2005-12, 3-14-
2005)
4-7-9: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
All massage establishment license holders shall renew their licenses annually
upon payment of all fees due. Successful completion of renewal applications and
background checks are required prior to issuance of any license. Applications
for renewal of massage establishment licenses must be filed not less than one
month prior to termination of an existing license. (Ord. 2005-12, 3-14-2005)
4-7-10: ADVERTISING RESTRICTIONS:
No massage establishment granted a license under the provisions of this chapter
shall place or publish, or cause to be placed or published, or distributed, any
advertising matter that depicts any portions of the human body that would
reasonably suggest to prospective patrons that any services are available other
than authorized massage services. Displays of any and all signage for the
business establishment are to be regulated by applicable Village ordinances.
(Ord. 2005-12, 3-14-2005)
4-7-11: EMPLOYEES:
   A.   Persons Under Eighteen: It shall be unlawful for any owner, proprietor,
manager or other person in charge of any massage establishment to employ any
person who is not at least eighteen (18) years of age.
   B.   Licensed Massage Therapists Or Massage Therapists In Training: It shall
be the responsibility of the massage establishment licensee to ensure that each
person employed as a massage therapist shall first have obtained a valid
license from the State of Illinois. (Ord. 2005-12, 3-14-2005)
4-7-12: FACILITY REQUIREMENTS:
No massage establishment shall be issued a license, nor be operated,
established or maintained, in the Village unless an inspection by the Village
reveals that the premises for the establishment complies with each of the
following minimum requirements:
   A.   Construction of rooms used for restrooms/toilets, tubs, steam baths and
showers shall be made waterproof with approved waterproof materials and shall
be installed in accordance with the Building and Construction Codes of the
Village, State of Illinois Accessibility Code and Federal ADA Regulations.
   B.   All massage tables, bathtubs, shower stalls, steam or bath areas and
floors shall have surfaces which may be readily disinfected.
   C.   Adequate bathing, dressing, and locker facilities shall be provided for
the patrons to be served at any given time. In the event male and female
patrons are to be served simultaneously, separate bathing, dressing, locker and
massage room facilities shall be provided and shall be along an accessible
route.
   D.   The premises shall have adequate equipment for disinfecting and
sterilizing nondisposable instruments and materials used in administering
massages. Such nondisposable instruments and materials shall be disinfected
after use on each patron.
   E.   Closed cabinets shall be provided and used for the storage of clean
linen, towels and other materials used in connection with administering
massages. All soiled linens, towels and other materials shall be kept in
properly covered containers or cabinets, which containers or cabinets shall be
kept separate from the clean storage areas.
   F.   Restroom/toilet facilities shall be provided in convenient locations.
When employees and patrons of different sexes are on the premises at the same
time, separate restroom/toilet facilities shall be provided for each sex. A
single water closet per sex shall be provided for each fifteen (15) or fewer
employees or patrons of that sex on the premises at any one time. Urinals may
be substituted for water closets after one water closet has been provided.
Restroom/toilet facilities shall be designated as to the sex accommodated
therein and shall be located along an accessible route.
   G.   Lavatories or washbasins provided with both hot and cold running water
shall be installed in each restroom/toilet room and in each room where massage
therapy would be provided. Lavatories or washbasins shall be provided with soap
and dispenser and with sanitary towels.
   H.   The premises shall be equipped with a high/low drinking fountain,
providing accessibility to those who use wheelchairs and to those who have
difficulty bending. The drinking fountain shall be located along an accessible
route.
   I.   The premises shall be equipped with a service/mop sink for custodial
services.
   J.   The premises shall be equipped with a stationary or portable
professional massage table with appropriate headrest. (Ord. 2005-12, 3-14-2005)
   K.   The Building Department, shall certify or report that the proposed
massage establishment facility complies with all the requirements of this
section and all other applicable Village ordinances, and shall send such
certification or report to the Village Administrator and/or Village President.
(Ord. 2005-12, 3-14-2005; amd. Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
4-7-13: OPERATING REQUIREMENTS:
The operating requirements for a massage establishment are as follows:
   A.   Every portion of the massage establishment, including appliances and
apparatus, shall be kept clean and operated in a sanitary condition.
   B.   Price rates for all services shall be prominently posted in the
reception area in a location available to all prospective customers.
   C.   All employees, including licensed massage therapists, shall be clean
and fully covered in clean clothing from a point not to exceed four inches (4")
above the center of the kneecap to the base of the neck by opaque material,
excluding the arms and hands. A separate dressing area for each sex must be
available on the premises, with individual lockers for each employee.
   D.   All massage establishments shall be provided with clean, laundered
sheets and towels in sufficient quantity, and shall be laundered after each use
thereof and stored in a sanitary manner.
   E.   The sexual and genital areas of patrons must be covered by sheets,
clothes or undergarments when in the presence of an employee or licensed
massage therapist.
   F.   It shall be unlawful for any person in a massage establishment
knowingly to place his or her hand upon, to touch with any part of his or her
body, to fondle in any manner, or to massage a sexual or genital area of any
other person.
   G.   No licensed massage therapist, employee or operator shall offer or
agree to perform any act which would require the touching of a patron's sexual
or genital areas.
   H.   All walls, ceilings, floors, pools, showers, bathtubs, steam rooms and
other physical facilities shall be in good repair and maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition. Wet and dry heat rooms, steam or vapor rooms or steam or
vapor cabinets, shower compartments, and restroom/toilet rooms shall be
thoroughly cleaned after each day the business is in operation. Bathtubs and
showers shall be thoroughly cleaned after each use. When carpeting is used on
the floors, it shall be kept dry.
   I.   Oils, creams, lotions or other preparations used in administering
massages shall be kept in clean, closed containers or cabinets and shall be
dispensed in unit doses so that said bulk containers are not contaminated
between clients. (Ord. 2005-12, 3-14-2005)
   J.   Eating and/or drinking in the massage work areas shall not be
permitted. Animals, except for seeing eye and other service dogs for persons
with disabilities, shall not be permitted in the massage work areas. (Ord.
2005-12, 3-14-2005; amd. 2012 Code)
   K.   No licensed massage therapist shall administer a massage to a patron
exhibiting any skin fungus, skin infection, skin inflammation or skin eruption
unless a physician, duly licensed by the State of Illinois, certifies in
writing that such person may be safely massaged, prescribing the conditions.
   L.   Each licensed massage therapist shall wash his or her hands in hot
running water, using a proper soap disinfectant before administering a massage
to each patron.
   M.   Massage may be practiced only for the purposes of physical fitness,
relaxation, general health and well being. The practice of massage for any
other purpose is prohibited.
   N.   The doors to the individual massage rooms shall not be equipped with
any locking devices and shall not be blocked or obstructed from either side.
(Ord. 2005-12, 3-14-2005)
4-7-14: OUTCALL MASSAGE SERVICES PROHIBITED:
Outcall massage services, as defined in section
4-7-1 of this chapter, shall be prohibited in the Village. (Ord. 2005-12, 3-14-
2005)
4-7-15: INSPECTIONS:
The Police Department and/or the Building Department, or authorized designee,
shall from time to time, and at least twice a year, make an inspection of each
massage establishment granted a license under the provisions of this chapter
for the purposes of determining that there is compliance with the provisions of
this chapter. Such inspections shall be made at reasonable times and in a
reasonable manner. It shall be unlawful for any massage establishment license
holder to fail to allow such inspection officer access to the premises or to
hinder such officer in any manner. (Ord. 2005-12, 3-14-2005; amd. Ord. 2017-42,
11-13-2017)
4-7-16: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Grounds: Any license issued to an owner or operator of a massage
establishment may be suspended or revoked for any length of time during the
remaining period of validity of the license for any one or more of the
following reasons: For any violation by the massage establishment license
holder of the provisions of this chapter relating to the license, the subject
matter of the license or to the premises occupied by the massage establishment.
   B.   Notice Required; Right To Appeal: No license issued pursuant to this
chapter shall be revoked or suspended without first giving the licensee notice
of such action and an opportunity to be heard in accordance with the provisions
of this section.
   C.   Notice Requirements:
      1.   Before any license is suspended or revoked, at least five (5) days'
written, advance notice shall be given to the licensee by certified mail,
returned receipt requested.
      2.   In case of a suspension or revocation of a massage establishment
license, notice shall be sent to the licensee at the business address indicated
on the licensee's application for massage establishment license.
      3.   The notice shall set forth the date, time and place of the hearing
and shall state the facts which constitute the reasons for the hearing on the
suspension or revocation of the license.
   D.   Change In Address: It shall be the duty of all licensees to inform the
Village of any changes in address which are needed to inform them of any
hearing conducted pursuant to this section. All changes in address shall be
reported to the Village within ten (10) days of such change. Failure by any
licensee to inform the Village of any change in address required pursuant to
this section shall not prevent the bringing of any action or the holding of any
hearing pursuant to this section for a suspension or revocation of the license.
   E.   Action On Suspension Or Revocation: The Village Attorney shall be
responsible for bringing and proving any and all actions for the suspension or
revocation of any massage establishment license. All initial pleadings and
subsequent original pleadings shall be filed with the Village Clerk. A decision
by the Village President to suspend or revoke a license shall be final.
   F.   Suspension Or Revocation In Addition To Fine: Any suspension or
revocation of any massage establishment license shall be in addition to any
fine(s) imposed. (Ord. 2005-12, 3-14-2005)
4-7-17: EXEMPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to other units of government, hospitals, nursing
homes, sanatoriums or persons holding a valid, unrevoked certificate to
practice the healing arts under the laws of the State of Illinois or persons
working under the direction of any such persons or in any such establishment.
This chapter shall also not apply to barbers, beauticians or cosmetologists
lawfully carrying out their particular profession or business and holding a
valid, unrevoked license or certificate of registration issued by the State of
Illinois and business license issued by the Village. (Ord. 2005-12, 3-14-2005)
4-7-18: EXISTING BUSINESSES:
   A.   All persons who presently operate a massage establishment must file for
a massage establishment license within three (3) months of the effective date
hereof.
   B.   This chapter shall not be construed to extend to or affect any activity
for which a license was issued or application for a license filed prior to the
effective date hereof, unless the Building Commissioner determines that any
provision of this chapter or the regulations incorporated herein by reference
should be applied for reasons of public health and safety. (Ord. 2005-12, 3-14-
2005)
4-7-19: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: Any building used as a massage establishment in
violation of this chapter with the intentional knowing, reckless or negligent
permission of the owner thereof, or the agent of the owner managing the
building, together with all fixtures and other property used in violation of
this chapter, is hereby declared a nuisance. (Ord. 2005-12, 3-14-2005)
   B.   Penalties: Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms and
provisions of this chapter shall be liable for a penalty in the amount of one
hundred percent (100%) of any unpaid fee and, in addition, shall be punishable
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2005-12, 3-14-2005; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 8
ADULT USES 1
SECTION:
4-8-1: Purpose
4-8-2: Definitions
4-8-3: License Required
4-8-4: Application For License
4-8-5: Approval Or Denial Of License; Ineligibility
4-8-6: Certification Of Premises
4-8-7: Application And Investigation Fee
4-8-8: Contents Of License; Posting Required
4-8-9: Expiration Of License; Renewals
4-8-10: Nontransferability Of License
4-8-11: Closing Hours
4-8-12: Cabarets
4-8-13: Video Viewing Booths
4-8-14: Inspections
4-8-15: Business Records
4-8-16: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
4-8-17: Judicial Review
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 11, chapter 17 of this code.
4-8-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate adult uses to protect the community
from the many types of criminal activity frequently associated with such uses.
The village recognizes that such regulation cannot, in effect, prohibit such
uses. This chapter has balanced the competing interest of the community in
reducing criminal activity and protecting property values versus the protected
rights of the owners, operators, employees and patrons of adult uses. (Ord. 98-
08, 2-23-1998)
4-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
ADULT BOOKSTORE: An establishment having, as a substantial or significant
portion of its sales or stock in trade, books, magazines, films for sale or for
viewing on the premises by use of motion picture devices or by coin operated
means, and periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas; or an establishment with a segment or
section devoted to the sale or display of such materials; or an establishment
that holds itself out to the public as a purveyor of such materials based upon
its signage, advertising, displays, actual sales, presence of video preview or
coin operated booths, exclusion of minors from the establishment's premises or
any other factors showing the establishment's primary purpose is to purvey such
material.
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET: A public or private establishment which: a)
features topless dancers, strippers, "go-go" dancers, male or female
impersonators, lingerie or bathing suit fashion shows; b) not infrequently
features entertainers who display specified anatomical areas; or c) features
entertainers who, by reason of their appearance or conduct, perform in a manner
which is designed primarily to appeal to the prurient interest of the patron or
features entertainers who engage in, or are engaged in, explicit simulation of
specified sexual activities.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A building or area used for presenting materials
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for
observation by patrons therein.
ADULT NOVELTY STORE: An establishment having a substantial or significant
portion of its sales or stock in trade consisting of toys, devices, clothing
"novelties", lotions and other items distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis on or use for specialized sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas; or an establishment that holds itself out to the public as a purveyor of
such materials based upon its signage, advertising, displays, actual sales,
exclusion of minors from the establishment's premises or any other factors
showing the establishment's primary purpose is to purvey such material.
ADULT USE: Adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult entertainment
cabarets, and other similar uses.
EMPLOYEE: Employees, independent contractors or any other person who is
retained by the licensee or subject to dismissal from working at the licensed
premises.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: A. Less than completely and opaquely covered:
      1.   Human genitals;
      2.   Pubic region;
      3.   Buttock;
      4.   Female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the
areola; and
   B.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered.
SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY: Any of the following offenses:
   A.   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of obscenity;
sale, distribution or display of harmful material to a minor; sexual
performance by a minor; possession or distribution of child pornography; public
lewdness; indecent exposure; indecency with a child; engaged in organized
criminal activity; sexual assault; molestation of a child; gambling; or
distribution of a controlled substance; or any similar offenses to those
described above under the criminal or penal code of other states or countries.
   B.   For which: 1) less than two (2) years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense; 2)
less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of conviction or the date
of release from confinement for conviction, whichever is the later date, if the
conviction is a felony offense; or 3) less than five (5) years have elapsed
since the date of the last conviction or the date of release from confinement
from the last conviction, whichever is the later date, if the convictions are
of two (2) or more misdemeanor offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses
and occurred within any twenty four (24) month period.
   C.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the disqualification of the applicant.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: A. Human genitals in the state of sexual
stimulation or arousal;
   B.   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; and
   C.   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttock or female breasts. (Ord. 98-08, 2-23-1998)
4-8-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an adult use without a valid
adult use business license issued by the village pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 98-08, 2-23-1998)
4-8-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   An application for a license shall be made on a form provided by the
village. All applicants must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter. The application may request and the applicant shall provide such
information (including fingerprints) as is needed to enable the village to
determine whether the applicant meets the qualifications established in this
chapter.
   B.   If a person who wishes to operate an adult use is an individual, the
person must sign the application for a license as applicant. If a person who
wishes to operate an adult use is other than an individual, each individual who
has a twenty percent (20%) or greater interest in the business must sign the
application for a license as applicant. Each applicant must be qualified under
subsection C of this section, and each applicant shall be considered a licensee
if the license is granted.
   C.   The completed application for an adult use business license shall
contain the following information:
      1.   If the applicant is an individual, the individual shall state his/
her legal name and any aliases and submit proof that he/she is eighteen (18)
years of age.
      2.   If the applicant is a partnership, the partnership shall state its
complete name and the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general
or limited, and a copy of the partnership agreement, if any.
      3.   If the applicant is a corporation, the corporation shall state its
complete name, the date of incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in
good standing under the laws of its state of incorporation, the names and
capacity of all officers, directors and principal shareholders, and the name
and address of the registered corporate agent.
      4.   If the applicant intends to operate the adult use business under a
name other than that of the applicant; he/she must state:
         a.   The business' fictitious name; and
         b.   Submit any required registration documents.
      5.   Whether the applicant has been convicted of any "specified criminal
activity" as defined in this chapter, and if so, the specified criminal
activity involved, and the date, place and jurisdiction of each.
      6.   Whether the applicant has had a previous license under this chapter
or similar ordinance from another city or county denied, suspended or revoked,
including the name and location of the business for which the permit was
denied, suspended or revoked as well as the date of the denial, suspension or
revocation. If the applicant has been a partner in a partnership or similar
ordinance in another jurisdiction or an officer, director or principal
stockholder of a corporation that is or was licensed under this chapter and a
license has previously been denied, suspended or revoked, include the name and
location of the business for which the permit was denied, suspended or revoked
as well as the date of denial, suspension or revocation.
      7.   Whether the applicant holds any other licenses under this chapter or
other similar provisions from another city or county and, if so, the names and
locations of such other licensed businesses.
      8.   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor area occupied by the business. This sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises. (Ord. 98-08, 2-23-1998)
4-8-5: APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF LICENSE; INELIGIBILITY:
Within thirty (30) days after receipt of a completed adult use business license
application, the village shall approve or deny the issuance of a license to an
applicant. The village shall approve the issuance of a license unless it
determines by a preponderance of the evidence any one or more of the following:
   A.   The applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age.
   B.   The applicant is overdue in payment to the village of taxes, fees,
fines or penalties assessed against or imposed upon him/her in relation to any
business.
   C.   The applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for the issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request
for information on the application form.
   D.   The applicant has been denied a license by the village to operate an
adult use business within the preceding twelve (12) months or whose license to
operate an adult use business has been revoked within the preceding twelve (12)
months.
   E.   The applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal activity
defined in this chapter. (Ord. 98-08, 2-23-1998)
   F.   The premises to be used for the adult use business has not been
approved by the fire protection district and the building and zoning official
as being in compliance with applicable laws and ordinances. (Ord. 98-08, 2-23-
1998; amd. 2012 Code)
   G.   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid.
   H.   The applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with any of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 98-08, 2-
23-1998)
4-8-6: CERTIFICATION OF PREMISES:
The fire protection district and building and zoning official shall complete
their certification that the premises is in compliance or not in compliance
with village codes within twenty (20) days of receipt of the application along
with application for an occupancy permit by the village. No adult use business
license shall be issued unless the premises at which the adult use will operate
is in conformance with the restrictions set forth in the village zoning
ordinance 1 . (Ord. 98-08, 2-23-1998; amd. 2012 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 11, chapter 17 of this code.
4-8-7: APPLICATION AND INVESTIGATION FEE:
Every application for an adult use business license (whether a new license or
for renewal of an existing license) shall be accompanied by a two hundred fifty
dollar ($250.00) nonrefundable application and investigation fee. (Ord. 98-08,
2-23-1998)
4-8-8: CONTENTS OF LICENSE; POSTING REQUIRED:
The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the person or
persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the address of the
adult use business. All licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or
near the entrance to the business so that they may be easily read at any time.
(Ord. 98-08, 2-23-1998)
4-8-9: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE; RENEWALS:
   A.   Each license shall expire on April 30 each year and may be renewed only
by making application as provided in section
4-8-4 of this chapter. Application for renewal shall be made at least thirty
(30) days before the expiration date, and when made less than thirty (30) days
before the expiration date, the expiration of the license will not be affected.
(Ord. 98-08, 2-23-1998; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   If the village denies renewal of a license, the applicant shall not be
issued a license for one year from the date of denial. If, subsequent to
denial, the village finds that the basis for denial of the license has been
corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license. (Ord. 98-08, 2-23-
1998)
4-8-10: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE:
A licensee shall not transfer his/her license to another nor shall a licensee
operate an adult use business under the authority of a license at any place
other than the address on the license. (Ord. 98-08, 2-23-1998)
4-8-11: CLOSING HOURS:
No adult use shall be open prior to ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. or after twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight. (Ord. 98-08, 2-23-1998)
4-8-12: CABARETS:
   A.   All dancing and other performances shall occur on a stage intended for
that purpose which is raised at least two feet (2') from the level of the
floor. No dancing or other performances shall occur closer than ten feet (10')
to any patron.
   B.   In addition, no performer shall fondle, caress or otherwise touch any
patron, and no patron shall fondle, caress or otherwise touch any performer.
   C.   No patron shall directly pay or give any gratuity to any performer, and
no performer shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron. Gratuities may
be indirectly given to performers by placing the gratuity on the stage. (Ord.
98-08, 2-23-1998)
4-8-13: VIDEO VIEWING BOOTHS:
   A.   No booths, stalls or partitioned portions of a room or individual rooms
used for the viewing of motion pictures or other forms of entertainment shall
have doors, curtains or portal partitions, but all such booths, stalls or
partitioned portions of a room or individual rooms so used shall have at least
one side open to an adjacent public room so that the area inside is visible to
persons in the adjacent public room.
   B.   All such described areas shall be lighted in such a manner that the
persons in the areas used for viewing motion pictures or other forms of
entertainment are visible from the adjacent public rooms, but such lighting
shall not be of such intensity as to prevent the viewing of the motion pictures
or other offered entertainment. (Ord. 98-08, 2-23-1998)
4-8-14: INSPECTIONS:
An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the Police Department,
Fire Protection District, Building Department or other Village or Village
designated departments or agencies to inspect the premises of the adult use for
the purpose of ensuring compliance with the law at any time it is occupied or
open for business. A person who operates an adult use, or his agent or
employee, violates this chapter if he/she refuses to permit such lawful
inspection of the premises at any time it is occupied or open for business.
(Ord. 98-08, 2-23-1998; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
4-8-15: BUSINESS RECORDS:
All adult use licensees shall file a verified report with the Village showing
the licensee's gross receipts and amounts paid to employees during the
preceding calendar year. In addition, all adult use licensees shall maintain
and retain, for a period of two (2) years, the names, addresses and ages of all
persons employed, including independent contractors, by the licensee. (Ord. 98-
08, 2-23-1998)
4-8-16: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Suspension: The Village may suspend a license for a period not to
exceed thirty (30) days if, after a hearing, it determines that a licensee or
an employee of a licensee: 1) violated or is not in compliance with any section
of this chapter; 2) refused to allow an inspection of the adult use business
premises as authorized by this chapter; or 3) knowingly permitted gambling by
any person on the adult use business premises. If the licensee or an employee
of the licensee has been found guilty in a court of law of a violation of this
chapter, no hearing is necessary prior to suspension of the license.
   B.   Revocation:
      1.   The Village shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension in
subsection A of this section occurs and the license has been suspended within
the preceding twelve (12) months or if the licensee is convicted of any
specified criminal activity.
      2.   The Village shall revoke a license if it determines, after a
hearing, that:
         a.   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
         b.   A licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use or sale of
alcohol or controlled substances on the premises;
         c.   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises;
         d.   A licensee knowingly operated the adult use business during a
period of time when the licensee's license was suspended;
         e.   A licensee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual intercourse,
sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or other sex act to occur in or on the
licensed premises;
         f.   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the Village, County or
State of any taxes or fees past due; or
         g.   A licensee has knowingly or intentionally facilitated another
commission of the offense of public indecency.
      3.   If the Village revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for
one year, and the licensee shall not be issued an adult use business license
for one year from the date the revocation became effective. If, subsequent to
revocation, the Village finds that the factual basis for the revocation did not
occur, the applicant may be granted a license. (Ord. 98-08, 2-23-1998)
4-8-17: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an application, or
suspension or revocation of any license, the applicant or licensee may seek
prompt judicial review of such action in any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 98-08, 2-23-1998)
CHAPTER 9
CABLE AND VIDEO SERVICES
SECTION:
4-9-1: Customer Service And Privacy Protection
4-9-2: Service Provider Fee
4-9-1: CUSTOMER SERVICE AND PRIVACY PROTECTION:
   A.   Law Adopted: The provisions of the customer service and privacy
protection law are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to all cable
and/or video providers offering services within the village boundaries.
   B.   Amendments: Any amendment to the customer service and privacy
protection law that becomes effective after the effective date hereof shall be
incorporated into this section by reference and shall be applicable to all
cable and/or video providers offering services within the village boundaries.
However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional for adoption by
municipalities shall not be incorporated into this section by reference without
formal action by the corporate authorities of the village.
   C.   Enforcement: The village does hereby, pursuant to law, declare its
intent to enforce all of the customer service and privacy protection standards
of the customer service and privacy protection law with respect to complaints
received from residents within the village. The village does hereby incorporate
the terms and conditions of the law as the terms and conditions of this
section. (Ord. 2008-02, 1-14-2008)
   D.   Penalties:
      1.   The village, pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/22-501(r)
(1), does hereby provide for a schedule of penalties for any "material breach"
(as defined herein) of the law by cable and/or video providers in addition to
the penalties provided by the law. The monetary penalties shall apply on a
competitively neutral basis and shall not exceed seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each day of the material breach, and shall not exceed twenty five
thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for each occurrence of a material breach per
customer. "Material breach" means any substantial failure of a cable or video
provider to comply with service quality and other standards specified in any
provision of the law. (Ord. 2008-02, 1-14-2008; amd. 2012 Code)
      2.   The village shall give a cable and/or video provider written notice
of any alleged material breach of the law and allow such provider thirty (30)
days from the receipt of the notice to remedy the specified material breach.
      3.   A material breach, for the purposes of assessing penalties, shall be
deemed to occur for each day that a material breach has not been remedied by a
cable and/or video service provider after receipt by such cable and/or video
provider of the notice set forth in subsection D2 of this section. (Ord. 2008-
02, 1-14-2008)
   E.   Customer Credits For Violations: The village hereby adopts the schedule
of customer credits for violations. Those credits shall be as provided in the
provisions of 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/22-501(s) and applied on the
statement issued to the customer for the next billing cycle following the
violation or following the discovery of the violation. The cable or video
provider is responsible for providing the credits, and the customer is under no
obligation to request the credit. (Ord. 2008-02, 1-14-2008; amd. 2012 Code)
4-9-2: SERVICE PROVIDER FEE:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the following meanings:
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC section 522(6).
COMMISSION: The Illinois commerce commission.
GROSS REVENUES: 1. All consideration of any kind or nature including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property, and in-kind contributions received by the
holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable service or
video service within the holder's cable service or video service area within
the village.
      2.   Gross revenues shall include the following, without limitation:
         a.   Recurring charges for cable or video service.
         b.   Event based charges for cable service or video service including,
but not limited to, pay per view and video on demand charges.
         c.   Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment.
         d.   Service charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service including, but not limited to, activation, installation, and
repair charges.
         e.   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service
or video service including, but not limited to, service order and service
termination charges.
         f.   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges,
and other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent
payments.
         g.   A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its
affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service within the
village. The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the
village divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant
regional or national compensation arrangement.
         h.   Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the
operation of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service
with respect to commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services on the holder's network,
such as a home shopping or similar channel, subject to subsection 2i of this
definition.
         i.   In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled
or integrated functionally with other services, capabilities, or applications,
the portion of the holder's revenue attributable to the other services,
capabilities, or applications shall be included in the gross revenue unless the
holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business.
         j.   The service provider fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-801(b).
      3.   "Gross revenues" do not include any of the following:
         a.   Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad debt,
subject to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi).
         b.   Refunds, discounts, or other price adjustments that reduce the
amount of gross revenues received by the holder of the state issued
authorization to the extent the refund, rebate, credit, or discount is
attributable to cable service or video service.
         c.   Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged, or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable service or video service
including, without limitation, revenue received from telecommunications
services, information services, or the provision of directory or internet
advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement, and
electronic publishing or any other revenues attributed by the holder to
noncable service or nonvideo service in accordance with the holder's books and
records and records kept in the regular course of business and any applicable
laws, rules, regulations, standards, or orders.
         d.   The sale of cable services or video services for resale in which
the purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the
purchaser's subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that
it will resell the service within the village and pay the fee permitted by 220
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b) with respect to the service.
         e.   Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the
subscribers or the transaction by a city, state, federal, or any other
governmental entity and collected by the holder of the state issued
authorization and required to be remitted to the taxing entity, including sales
and use taxes.
         f.   Security deposits collected from subscribers.
         g.   Amounts paid by subscribers to home shopping or similar vendors
for merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part of the
cable service or video service.
      4.   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of gross revenues to the extent the treatment of the revenue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b)
which would otherwise be paid by the cable service or video service.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the commission pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-401.
SERVICE: The provision of cable service or video service to subscribers and the
interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the commission
pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
SERVICE PROVIDER FEE: The amount paid under this section and 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801 by the holder to the village for the service areas
within its territorial jurisdiction.
VIDEO SERVICE: Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is
required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and which
is provided through wire line facilities located at least in part in the public
right of way without regard to delivery of technology, including internet
protocol technology. This definition does not include any video programming
provided by a commercial mobile service provider as defined in 47 USC section
332(d) or any video programming provided solely as part of and via service that
enables users to access content, information, electronic mail, or other
services offered over the internet.
   B.   Fee Imposed; Exemption:
      1.   A fee is hereby imposed on any holder providing cable service or
video service in the village. The amount of the fee imposed hereby shall be
five percent (5%) of the holder's gross revenues.
      2.   The fee hereby imposed does not apply to existing cable service or
video service providers that have an existing franchise agreement with the
village in which a fee is paid. The fee imposed here is the same as that
imposed on other cable service or video service providers.
   C.   Notice To Village Of Video Service; Liability For Fee: The holder shall
notify the village at least ten (10) days prior to the date on which the holder
begins to offer cable service or video service in the village. The holder shall
be liable for and shall pay the service provider fee to the village. The
holder's liability for the fee shall commence on the first day of the calendar
month following thirty (30) days after receipt of a copy of this section. A
copy of this section shall be sent by mail, postage prepaid, to the address
listed on the holder's application notice sent pursuant to 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-401(b)(6) to the village.
   D.   Payment Date: The payment of the service provider fee shall be due on a
quarterly basis, forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar quarter.
If mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each
payment shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of
the fee.
   E.   Credit For Other Payments: An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
21-301(c), with credit for prepaid franchise fees under that agreement, may
deduct the amount of such credit from the fees that the operator owes under
subsection B1 of this section.
   F.   Accounting: All determinations and calculations under this section
shall be made pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles.
   G.   Affect On Other Taxes:
      1.   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to exempt a
holder from any tax that is or may later be imposed by the village, including
any tax that is or may later be required to be paid by or through the holder
with respect to cable service or video service.
      2.   A state issued authorization shall not affect any requirement of the
holder with respect to payment of the village simplified municipal
telecommunications tax 1  or any other tax as it applies to any telephone
service provided by the holder.
      3.   A state issued authorization shall not affect any requirement of the
holder with respect to payment of the village 911 or E911 fees, taxes or
charges.
   H.   Audits:
      1.   The village shall notify the holder of the requirements it imposes
on other cable service or video service providers to submit to an audit of its
books and records.
      2.   The holder shall comply with the same requirements the village
imposes on other cable service or video service providers in its jurisdiction
to audit the holder's books and records and to recompute any amounts determined
to be payable under the requirements of the village.
      3.   If all local franchises between the village and the cable operator
terminate, the audit requirements shall be those adopted by the village
pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill of rights act, 50 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq 2 .
      4.   No acceptance of amounts remitted should be construed as an accord
that the amounts are correct.
      5.   Any additional amount due after an audit shall be paid within thirty
(30) days after the village submission of an invoice for the sum.
   I.   Late Payments: All fees due and payments that are past due shall be
governed by ordinances adopted by the village pursuant to the local government
taxpayers' bill of rights act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq. (Ord.
2008-03, 1-14-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 3, chapter 3, article E of this code.
2 2. See title 3, chapter 5 of this code.
CHAPTER 10
VIDEO GAMING
SECTION:
4-10-1: Definitions
4-10-2: License
4-10-3: Duties Of Licensees
4-10-4: Suspension Or Revocation Of Liquor License
4-10-5: Penalties
4-10-6: Violations Of The Illinois Video Gaming Act
4-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT: Any Bloomingdale dining, hotel or resort establishment
with a class V video gaming supplemental liquor license.
VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL OR VGT: An electronic video game machine that, upon
insertion of cash, electronic card or voucher or any combination thereof, is
available to play or simulate the play of a video game, including, but not
limited to, video poker, line up, and blackjack, as authorized by the state of
Illinois gaming board (the "gaming board") utilizing a video display and
microprocessors in which the player may receive free games or credits that can
be redeemed for cash. The term does not include a machine that directly
dispenses coins, cash, or tokens or is for amusement purposes only. (Ord. 2014-
12, 2-24-2014)
4-10-2: LICENSE:
   A.   License Required: No establishment shall install video gaming terminals
without having first obtained a class V video gaming supplemental liquor
license. (Ord. 2014-12, 2-24-2014)
4-10-3: DUTIES OF LICENSEES:
   A.   Hours Of Operation: Video gaming terminals may only be operated within
the permitted liquor service hours, in accordance with section
4-2-16 of this title.
   B.   Location, Screening And Supervision: The location and screening of the
video gaming terminals and supervision of the video gaming area shall be in
accordance with subsection 4-2-18D of this title.
   C.   Compliance: Licensed establishments shall comply with all provisions of
this code and the Illinois video gaming act, and all rules, regulations and
restrictions imposed by the gaming board.
   D.   Inspections: Licensed establishments shall permit inspection of any
licensed premises during regular business hours by village officials to
determine compliance with the provisions of this code. (Ord. 2014-12, 2-24-
2014)
4-10-4: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LIQUOR LICENSE:
   A.   Every class V liquor license is subject to suspension or revocation, in
accordance with chapter 2 of this title.
   B.   If a class V liquor license is revoked or suspended in accordance with
chapter 2 of this title, the village will consider the video gaming license as
issued by the village and the gaming board to be revoked or suspended at the
same time, and no more VGT activity will be allowed after the revocation or
suspension, until and up to the time when a license suspension is lifted by the
liquor commissioner. (Ord. 2014-12, 2-24-2014)
4-10-5: PENALTIES:
Every class V liquor license holder found to be in violation of chapter 2 of
this title is subject to the penalties in accordance with chapter 2 of this
title. (Ord. 2014-12, 2-24-2014)
4-10-6: VIOLATIONS OF THE ILLINOIS VIDEO GAMING ACT:
The chief of police, or his designee, will report any violations of the
Illinois video gaming act to the gaming board as soon as possible, and any
enforcement of the act will be the responsibility of the gaming board. (Ord.
2014-12, 2-24-2014)
CHAPTER 11
RESIDENTIAL DWELLING RENTAL CODE
SECTION:
4-11-1: Purpose And Scope
4-11-2: Applicability, Interpretation And Implementation Of Regulations
4-11-3: Definitions
4-11-4: Residential Dwelling Subject To Rental License
4-11-5:    Residential Rental License Requirements
4-11-6: Other Requirements
4-11-7: Tenant Responsibilities
4-11-8: Taxes And Fees
4-11-9: Administration
4-11-10: Violations; Penalties
4-11-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public life, health, safety and
welfare, to insure against the potential hazards of inadequate, defective or
unsafe residential dwelling units offered for lease or rental, with or without
compensation. The regulations adopted hereunder establish a program for
identification, licensing, regulation and inspection of residential rental unit
(s) and related premises on and after the effective date of these regulations.
This chapter, including any and all regulations adopted hereunder, shall
hereinafter be referred to and cited as the "Residential Rental Code", so as to
protect the public health, safety and welfare of the people of the Village of
Bloomingdale, including:
   A.   To protect the public health and safety by ensuring residential rental
units comply with minimum housing standards of Village ordinances;
   B.   To protect the character and stability of residential areas, to prevent
congestion of population, to facilitate the suppression of disorder and to
ensure the quiet enjoyment of property by all people of the Village,
particularly in residential areas;
   C.   To correct and prevent housing conditions and situations that adversely
affect or are likely to adversely affect the life, safety, and general welfare
and health, including the physical, mental and social well-being of persons
occupying dwellings in residential areas, including the neighboring residents;
   D.   To facilitate the enforcement of minimum standards for the maintenance
of existing residential buildings and thus to prevent slums, blight and
disregard of Village codes;
   E.   To preserve the value of residential land and buildings throughout the
Village. (Ord. 2020-36, 12-14-2020; Ord. 2024-45, 11-11-2024)
4-11-2: APPLICABILITY, INTERPRETATION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF REGULATIONS:
The Building and Zoning Department shall be charged with the enforcement of
these regulations, and the Building Commissioner shall be known as the code
enforcement official charged with the application, interpretation, and
implementation of these regulations.
These regulations shall be applicable to all residential properties in the
Village that are leased or rented, which shall be defined as any residential
rental unit wherein the owner or owner's agent allows an individual or
individuals to possess and occupy the premises whether or not payment is
provided for occupancy. All areas of the residential rental unit to which a
tenant has the right of use or access shall be subject to inspection for
compliance with the applicable codes and ordinances of the Village. Further,
the licensing requirement, as provided by this Chapter, shall not apply to:
   A.   Any land contract, contract for sale or any other property transaction
wherein the new occupant has legally committed to acquire legal title to the
property and has occupied the premises within sixty (60) days of the date of
the contract; or
   B.   Residential Dwelling Units, as hereinafter defined, that are
constructed as part of an apartment complex or condominum building, that is
wholly occupied by a tenant and is not further sublet, if property ownership
provides the building commissioner with:
      1.   Notarized documentation evidencing the existence of twenty-four
(24)hour seven (7) days per week site management and maintenance service; and
      2.   The contact information for the parties responsible for the services
provided for in the immediately aforementioned subsection 1. (Ord. 2020-36, 12-
14-2020; amd. Ord. 2021-22, 6-28-2021; Ord. 2021-39, 9-27-2021; Ord. 2024-45,
11-11-2024)
4-11-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases shall have the meanings, and are hereby
defined, as follows:
RESIDENTIAL DWELLING: Any permanent structure identified by a unique street
address consisting of one (1) or more rooms which are arranged, designed or
used for human occupancy and provides code-compliant independent living
facilities for one (1) or more persons that includes permanent provisions for
living, bathing, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
RESIDENTIAL RENTAL UNIT: Any residential dwelling not occupied by the owner of
record and whereby the owner allows or causes to allow quiet enjoyment and
occupancy by any tenant(s), together with all land appurtenances, accessory
buildings or structures related thereto.
TENANT: A person who has exercised agreement, either written or oral, or other
mutual understanding with the owner of record, or authorized agent, for
possession and occupancy of a residential dwelling irrespective of whether the
consideration provided in exchange for such property rights is monetary in
nature. (Ord. 2020-36, 12-14-2020; Ord. 2021-22, 6-28-2021)
4-11-4: RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNIT SUBJECT TO RENTAL LICENSE:
It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, managing agent, property agent, or other legal entity to knowingly
permit, operate, maintain or offer for lease or rent within the Village any
residential dwelling, whether vacant or occupied, without first having obtained
a current Village of Bloomingdale Residential Rental License as provided in
this chapter, so long as such regulation does not conflict with the provisions
contained in Title 3 (Finance and Taxation) Chapter 3 (Hotel and Motel Use
Taxes) of the Village Code. For purposes of this chapter, after meeting the
criteria set forth herein, a residential dwelling holding a valid residential
rental license shall be deemed a “Residential Rental Unit.”
Tenant occupancy, for lease or rent of a residential dwelling with or without
compensation, shall not take place for any purpose until a Residential Rental
License has been issued for the residential rental unit.
Thereafter, all residential rental units shall be inspected annually and a new
Residential Rental License issued upon satisfactory completion of requirements.
A Residential Rental License shall not be issued to any owner, manager, or
agent thereof, if such an owner, manager, or agent is indebted to the Village
and until all violations of this chapter and all other applicable codes and
ordinances of the Village have been brought into compliance. The possession of
a Code Compliance Report in and of itself does not authorize occupancy of said
property. The Residential Rental License shall state that the premises and
occupancy thereof comply with all the provisions of the Village Code at all
times. Individual rooming unit(s) located within a larger residential dwelling
shall not be independently eligible for a residential rental license. (Ord.
2020-36, 12-14-2020; Ord. 2021-22, 6-28-2021; Ord. 2024-45, 11-11-2024)
4-11-5: RESIDENTIAL RENTAL LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Residential Rental Unit License required:
      1.   Rental Unit License required. Any person operating a residential
rental unit or advertising any property within the Village as available for
residential rental use must apply for and obtain a valid license for the rental
property with the Village. A license holder must include the Residential
Dwelling Unit Rental Unit License number in all advertisements for a
residential rental unit, including all online listings.
      2.   Pre-existing Residential Rental Units. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, residential rental units that were lawfully operated prior to the
adoption of this Chapter may continue in operation, provided that:
         a.   The operator must apply for a Residential Rental License no later
than ninety (90) days after the adoption of this Chapter, and must be approved
for the license.
         b.   The operator of the Residential Rental Unit must meet the
eligibility requirements for an applicant for a Residential Rental Dwelling
Unit License as established in this chapter.
         c.   The residential rental unit must meet the eligibility
requirements established in this chapter.
      3.   Applicant. An applicant for a Residential Rental License:
         a.   Must be a natural person who is at least twenty-one (21) years
old and has the legal right to occupy the residential dwelling and operate a
residential rental unit.
         b.   May not be a person who has had a license for operation of a
residential rental unit or other guest accommodation revoked within the
previous twenty-four (24) months, either within the Village or at any other
location.
      4.   Expansions. A Residential Rental License is valid only for the
residential rental unit as depicted in the application for license. A
residential rental unit may not be enlarged or expanded to include other rooms
unless a new license is obtained.
      5.   Tenants. A Residential Rental License is valid only for the tenant
(s) as depicted in the application for license. A residential rental unit may
not be occupied by tenants other than those listed on the application for
license unless a new license is obtained. At least one (1) of the tenants
proposed to occupy the residential dwelling must be a natural person who is at
least twenty- one (21) years old.
      6.   Expiration. A Residential rental permit shall expire one (1) year
after the date of issuance unless there is a change in tenancy or it is renewed
prior to expiration.
   B.   Application for license requirements. An application for a new
Residential Rental License shall be on forms provided by the Building and
Zoning Department and must include:
      1.   The address of the proposed residential rental unit.
      2.   The name, mailing address, street address (if different from the
mailing address), telephone number, and e-mail address of:
         a.   The applicant;
         b.   The record owner of the property, if the applicant is not the
record property owner;
      3.   A statement signed by the property owner, if the applicant is not
the property owner, authorizing the applicant to submit the application.
      4.   A statement verifying that:
         a.   The applicant has confirmed that the proposed residential
dwelling rental use will not violate any covenants, homeowner's association
rules, bylaws, condominium agreement terms, rental agreement terms, or other
restrictions applicable to the property.
         b.   No license for operation of a residential rental unit or other
guest accommodation, either within the Village or at any other location, has
been revoked in the twenty-four (24) month period preceding the date of the
application, either from the applicant or the property owner if the two are not
one in the same.
      5.   A floor plan, drawn to scale, showing:
         a.   The structure containing the proposed residential rental unit;
         b.   The rooms to be used by residential rental tenants for sleeping;
         c.   All other rooms and indoor areas to be used by residential rental
tenants;
         d.   The location of windows, doors, and smoke and carbon monoxide
detectors; and
         e.   The evacuation route in case of fire or other emergency.
      6.   Photographs taken from each property line, showing views of the
structure where the proposed residential rental unit is located.
      7.   An affidavit signed by the applicant and notarized, stating:
         a.   All information provided by the applicant is true and accurate;
and
         b.   The applicant has reviewed, understands, and agrees to comply
with the requirements of this chapter.
         c.   The applicant is at least twenty one (21) years of age, provide
date of birth.
      8.   Any additional information determined by the Building Commissioner
to be necessary for processing the application and verifying the eligibility of
the applicant, tenant(s) and the proposed residential dwelling rental unit.
      9.   Payment of an application fee in the amount of one hundred twenty-
five dollars ($125.00).
   C.   Requirements to be completed prior to license issuance.
      1.   Inspection; notice to interested parties. Within thirty (30) days of
the date of notification by the Building and Zoning Department that it has
determined a Residential Rental Unit application for license to be complete and
all prerequisite conditions and criteria to have been met, the applicant must:
         a.   Contact the Building and Zoning Department to schedule an
inspection to verify that:
            (1)   The property complies with all applicable building and fire
codes.
            (2)   The floor plan and site plan provided with the application
accurately reflect the property.
         b.   Provide proof that the applicant has given written notice to the
owners and occupants of all properties within two hundred fifty (250) feet of
the proposed residential rental unit. Acceptable forms of proof shall be as
determined by the Building and Zoning Department. The Building and Zoning
Department shall also post the notice on the Village's website. The notice
shall:
            (1)   Be in a format approved by the Building and Zoning
Department.
            (2)   Inform each such owner or occupant of the pending
application, the Building and Zoning Department's intent to issue the permit,
and the owner's or occupant's right to appeal issuance of the permit.
            (3)   Include a map showing the location of the proposed
residential rental unit.
            (4)   Provide contact information for the Building and Zoning
Department and the applicant for obtaining further information.
      2.   Failure to pass inspection. If a proposed Residential rental unit
fails to pass the inspection required under this section, the applicant may
request a re-inspection, provided the re-inspection request is submitted within
sixty (60) days of the first inspection. The application will be voided, and no
permit will be issued if the proposed Residential rental unit fails to pass re-
inspection.
      3.   Insurance; other legal requirements. If no appeal contesting
issuance of a Residential Rental Unit License is filed with the Village Board
within the applicable deadline, or if the Village Board, upon hearing an
appeal, has decided in favor of an applicant for a Residential Rental License,
the applicant must within thirty (30) days:
         a.   Provide proof that the applicant has obtained or applied for all
other licenses, permits, registrations, and approvals required by any
government entity to lawfully engage in the business of Residential Rentals.
         b.   Provide proof of liability insurance with a company authorized to
do business in the State of Illinois, insuring against personal injury
(including death) and property damage claims related to the Residential rental
use, with coverage limits of no less than two million dollars ($2,000,000) per
occurrence. Said insurance coverage must remain in effect the entire time a
residential rental unit is made available for rent or lease.
      4.   Failure to complete required measures. An application for a
Residential Rental License will be voided and no license will be issued if the
applicant fails to complete any of the measures required under this section
within the required timeframe.
   D.   Denial of permit. If the Building and Zoning Department determines that
a proposed residential rental unit or the person applying for a license to
operate the unit fails to meet any requirement, condition, or criteria
established by this chapter, the license will be denied, subject to the
applicant's right to appeal the denial as provided in this chapter.
   E.   Issuance of permit.
      1.   Building Commissioner approval. The Building Commissioner shall
approve the issuance of a Residential Rental License to an applicant if:
         a.   The Building Commissioner determines that the applicant and the
proposed residential rental unit meet the requirements, conditions, and
criteria established by this chapter.
         b.   The proposed residential rental unit has passed inspection or re-
inspection and the applicant has completed all other measures as required under
Section
4-11-5 , B and C.
         c.   No appeal contesting issuance of a Residential Rental License has
been filed with the Village Board within the applicable deadline.
      2.   Special conditions. The Building Commissioner may make the issuance
of a Residential Rental License subject to special conditions established to
mitigate the impact of the residential rental on surrounding properties and
nearby residents. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to:
         a.   Designation of dedicated parking locations for tenants or guests.
         b.   Prohibition of tenant use of certain outdoor areas, or limited
hours for use of outdoor area.
   F.   Appeals from issuance or denial of permits.
      1.   Filing an appeal. Pursuant to the procedures established under
Section
4-1-1 7, an appeal may be filed with the Village Board by:
         a.   An applicant whose application for a Residential Rental License
has been denied or who wishes to appeal any special conditions imposed by the
Building Commissioner.
         b.   Any person aggrieved by the issuance of a Residential Rental
License.
      2.   Reversal of decision to issue or deny permit. The Village Board may
reverse the Building Commissioner's decision to issue or deny a Residential
Rental License if it determines the Building Commissioner acted in error. If
the Village Board finds in favor of the applicant whose application for a
permit has been denied, the Building Commissioner shall approve the issuance of
a Residential Rental License that is determined to be compliant with the
Village Board's findings upon completion of any final measures remaining to be
completed under Section
4-11-5  B. or C.
      3.   Special conditions. The Village Board may:
         a.   Impose special conditions on the issuance of a license which was
previously denied by the Building Commissioner, consistent with the types of
special conditions that may be imposed by the Building Commissioner under
subsection (2) of Section
4-11-5  (E).
         b.   Remove or revise any special conditions imposed by the Building
Commissioner.
   G.   Transfers and assignments. A Residential Rental License does not
authorize any person, other than the person named on the license, to operate a
residential dwelling rental. A license holder may not transfer or assign the
license to another person or address. However, a new applicant may apply to
assume operation of a licensed residential rental unit and may be granted a
temporary license for the remainder of the original license period if the
applicant meets all eligibility requirements for Residential Rental License
holders and any specific requirements for the license for the property. An
application for a temporary license under this section must include:
      1.   The same information as required for new licenses under Section
4-11-5  B. and C., except that no floor plan, site plan, or photographs are
required if no changes have been made or are proposed to the residential rental
unit or the property containing the residential rental unit.
      2.   Payment of a license application fee in the amount of one hundred
twenty-five dollars ($125.00).
      3.   Submittal of proof of liability insurance and compliance with all
other applicable legal requirements, in accordance with Section
4-11-5  C.; provided that the applicant may opt to submit such documents after
notification that the Building and Zoning Department has determined the
application to be otherwise complete.
   H.   License renewal.
      1.   Renewal required upon expiration. A Residential Rental License must
be renewed upon its expiration. It is a violation of this chapter to continue
operating a residential rental unit after the license has expired.
      2.   Renewal application. An application for renewal of a Residential
Rental License must include:
         a.   All of the same information required for an application for a new
license under Section
4-11-5  B., provided that no floor plan, site plan, or photographs are required
if the license holder affirms that no changes have been made or are proposed to
be made to the residential rental dwelling unit or the property containing the
residential rental unit.
         b.   Updated proof of liability insurance, consistent with the
requirements of Section
4-11-5  C.
         c.   Proof that all other licenses, permits, registrations, and
approvals required by any government entity to lawfully engage in the business
of residential rentals are current.
         d.   Payment of a renewal application fee in the amount of one hundred
twenty-five dollars ($125.00).
      3.   Floor plan and site plan revisions. A revised floor plan must be
submitted if any changes have been made or are proposed to be made to the area
included as part of the residential rental unit. A revised site plan must be
submitted if the previous site plan no longer accurately depicts the property
or there are proposed changes to the property as depicted in the previously
approved site plan. Floor plan and site plan revisions are subject to the
following provisions:
         a.   Renewal of the Residential Rental License is contingent upon
approval of the revisions by the Building Commissioner. If the Building
Commissioner denies approval of the revisions, the license holder may submit a
revised renewal application without the revisions.
         b.   If the Building Commissioner determines that the revisions
warrant notification to nearby property owners and occupants, the Building
Commissioner may require the license holder to provide such notification,
consistent with the notification requirements applicable to new license
applications under Section
4-11-5  C.
         c.   The Building Commissioner may impose special conditions in
conjunction with approval of the revisions, consistent with the Building
Commissioner's authority under Section
4-11-5  E.
         d.   Pursuant to the procedures established under Section
4-1-17 , the license holder or any other party aggrieved by the Building
Commissioner's decision under this section may appeal the decision to the
Village Board. On consideration of the appeal, the Village Board may:
            (1)   Affirm or reverse the Building Commissioner's decision to
approve or deny approval of the revisions.
            (2)   Impose special conditions on the approval of revisions that
were previously denied by the Building Commissioner, consistent with the types
of special conditions that may be imposed by the Building Commissioner.
            (3)   Remove or revise any special conditions imposed by the
Building Commissioner in conjunction with the Building Commissioner's approval
of the revisions.
      4.   Inspection required for renewal. As a condition of renewal of a
Residential Rental License, the applicant must schedule a new inspection with
the Building and Zoning Department to verify that:
         a.   The property complies with all applicable building and fire
codes.
         b.   The most recently approved floor plan and site plan accurately
reflect the property.
      5.   Failure to pass inspection. If the residential rental unit fails to
pass the inspection, the applicant may request a re-inspection, provided:
         a.   The re-inspection request is submitted within sixty (60) days of
the first inspection.
         b.   The Building and Zoning Department may, at its discretion,
suspend the Residential Rental License and order that no residential rental use
take place at the premises unless the unit passes re-inspection.
         c.   The application will be voided and the license will not be
renewed if the proposed residential rental unit fails to pass re-inspection.
(Ord. 2020-36, 12-14-2020; Ord. 2021-22, 6-28-2021; Ord. 2024-45, 11-11-2024)
4-11-6: OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Rental periods; Minimum individual stay. Regardless of any other
Section within this Chapter, under no circumstance shall a property owner be
permitted to rent or lease, or allow the rental or leasing of, a Residential
Rental Unit to a tenant for a period of less than thirty (30) days.
   B.   Tenant eligibility; discriminatory practices; accessibility.
      1.   Principal tenant requirements. The principal tenant of a residential
rental unit must be at least twenty-one (21) years old and must be an overnight
occupant of the unit during the entire time of the rental period.
      2.   Discriminatory practices prohibited. Except as allowed under
subsection (1) of this section, it shall be unlawful for any person who owns,
rents, leases, operates, manages, or in any manner controls a residential
rental unit to withhold, deny, curtail, or limit the rental, lease or use of
such unit because of an individual's race, color, national origin, ancestry,
sex, gender identity, sexual orientation, age, religion, marital status,
parental status, or military service status.
      3.   Accessibility. Listings for a residential rental unit must identify
any accessibility features for persons with disabilities.
   C.   Guest health and safety.
      1.   Building safety. Each residential rental unit must meet all
applicable building code and fire code requirements. Functioning smoke and
carbon monoxide alarms meeting Underwriters Laboratory (UL) standards shall be
required as follows:
         a.   Smoke detection/alarms are required to be installed inside and in
the immediate area outside (within fifteen feet (15') of each separate sleeping
area/bedroom and on each level occupied by the residential rental unit
including a basement, in compliance with Village Code Section 10-3-1 [IRC
Section R314], and the State of Illinois Fire Safety Smoke Detector Act [425
ILCS 60/]. Devices shall have primary power from the building wiring with
battery back-up power. Multiple devices shall be interconnected so that
activation of one device activates all devices.
         b.   Carbon monoxide detection/alarms are required to be installed
inside and in the immediate area outside (within 15') of each separate sleeping
area/ bedroom and on each level occupied by the residential rental unit
including basement, in compliance with Village Code Section 10-3-1 [IRC
SectionR315], and the State of Illinois Public Safety Carbon Monoxide Alarm
Detector Act [430 ILCS 135/]. Devices shall have primary power from the
building wiring with battery back-up power. Multiple devices shall be
interconnected so that activation of one device activates all devices.
   D.   Responding to nuisance, safety, and operational issues.
      1.   Response procedures. The license holder must:
         a.   Be available by telephone twenty-four (24) hours day, seven (7)
days a week, to address problems associated with the residential rental unit,
including operational and safety concerns and nuisance complaints.
         b.   Take action to resolve each complaint regarding the residential
rental unit within twenty-four (24) hours of receiving the complaint.
         c.   Diligently pursue the resolution of each complaint until it is
resolved to the fullest practical extent.
      2.   Violations of this section. Failure by the license holder, or the
alternate contact person to comply with any of the requirements of this section
will be treated as a violation by the license holder.
   E.   Right of Entry: In order to safeguard the safety, health and welfare of
the public, the Building Commissioner is authorized as a condition of the
license to attempt to obtain consent to enter at any reasonable time from the
owner, license holder, or tenant in charge of a residential rental unit,
structure or property subject to this chapter for the purpose of making
inspections and performing duties under this chapter. Such owner, license
holder, or tenant shall be informed that entry by the Building Commissioner or
his designee is sought for the purpose of making inspection and performing
duties under this chapter. Failure to give consent to entry under this section
shall be punishable by forfeiture of the Residential Rental License.
   F.   Search Warrant in Absence of Consent to Right of Entry: If the Building
Commissioner, after a reasonable attempt to obtain consent, does not receive
consent to enter a residential rental unit, structure or property subject to
this chapter, the Building Commissioner may seek in the circuit court of DuPage
County, a search warrant pursuant to
4-11-6  subsection G. of this chapter. An owner, license holder, or tenant in
charge of a residential rental unit, structure or property subject to the
provisions of this chapter, who is presented with a search warrant obtained
pursuant to this section, shall not refuse, impede, inhibit, interfere with,
restrict, or obstruct entry and free access to any part of the residential
rental unit, structure or property where an inspection authorized by the search
warrant is sought to be made.
   G.   Procurement of Search Warrants: A search warrant sought pursuant to
subsection
4-11-6  F. shall be sought in the circuit court of DuPage County. The court may
consider any of the following factors along with such other matters as it deems
pertinent in its decision as to whether a warrant shall be issued:
      1.   Eyewitness account of violation.
      2.   Citizen complaints.
      3.   Tenant complaints.
      4.   Plain view violations.
      5.   Violations apparent from village records.
      6.   Property deterioration.
      7.   Age of property.
      8.   Nature of alleged violation.
      9.   Passage of time since last inspection.
      10.   Previous violations on the property.
   H.   Costs and Liens:
      1.   Any costs incurred by the village or a duly authorized contractor in
abating a nuisance, violation or any other charge imposed by the village under
this chapter shall be a lien upon the real estate in question as authorized
under the Illinois municipal code and shall be superior to all other liens and
encumbrances except tax liens; provided, that within sixty (60) days after such
cost and expense is incurred, the village, or a contractor performing such
services as authorized by the village, in his or in its own name, files notice
of lien in the office of the county recorder. The notice shall consist of a
sworn statement setting out: a) a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification thereof; b) the amount of money representing the cost and
expense incurred or payable for the service; and c) the date or dates when such
cost and expense was incurred by the village. The lien shall not be valid as to
any purchaser whose rights in and to such real estate have arisen subsequent to
the weed cutting or property maintenance actions by the village and prior to
the filing of the notice of lien. The lien shall not be valid as to any
mortgagee, judgment creditor or other lienor whose right in and to such real
estate arises prior to the filing of the notice.
      2.   Upon payment of the cost and expense by the owner or other persons
interested in such property after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall
be released by the village or person in whose name the lien has been filed, and
the release may be filed of record as in the case of filing notice of lien.
(Ord. 2020-36, 12-14-2020; Ord. 2021-22, 6-28-2021; Ord. 2021-39, 9-27-2021;
Ord. 2024-45, 11-11-2024)
4-11-7: TENANT RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Compliance with regulations. Each tenant of a residential rental unit
is responsible for abiding by all applicable statutes, ordinances, and
regulations and respecting the character of the neighborhood in which the unit
is located.
   B.   Egregious and objectionable conduct. In addition to all other acts
prohibited under this article or other applicable law, each tenant of a
residential rental unit is prohibited from engaging in or allowing others on
the premises to engage in:
      1.   Egregious conduct, which for the purposes of this article includes:
         a.   Drug trafficking.
         b.   Prostitution, solicitation of prostitution, or human trafficking.
         c.   Gang-related activity.
         d.   Discharging a firearm.
         e.   Violent acts involving the death of, serious bodily injury to, or
sexual assault of any person.
         f.   Child abuse or endangerment.
         g.   Violations of requirements for registered sex offenders.
         h.   Holding the unit out to members of the general public as the
location of a party or other event.
         i.   Inviting persons to the unit under circumstances requiring the
payment of an admission fee or other compensation, consideration, or revenue to
gain entry.
         j.   Use of the residential rental unit for any other commercial
purposes.
      2.   Objectionable conduct, which for the purposes of this article
includes:
         a.   Disturbance of the peace.
         b.   Drunken behavior visible or audible from neighboring properties
or dwelling units or to the public.
         c.   Lewd conduct.
         d.   Public urination.
         e.   Excessive loud noise.
         f.   Exceeding design loads, by placing loads on structural elements
or components of buildings, including but not limited to porches, balconies,
and roof decks, in excess of the minimum design loads required by the Village's
adopted building code.
         g.   Violation of any applicable life safety codes, including but not
limited to the fire code as adopted by the Village.
   C.   Notice to Tenants. The license holder for a residential rental unit
must provide notice, in a form and by means prescribed by the Building and
Zoning Department, to all residential rental unit tenants advising of:
      1.   Each tenant's responsibilities under this section.
      2.   The remedies available to the Village to address violations,
including the imposition of individual fines in an amount up to one thousand
dollars ($1000) for each violation.
   D.   Supervision of tenants. A Residential Rental License holder must not
allow residential rental unit tenants to violate any of the provisions of this
section or to otherwise create a public nuisance or disobey applicable
statutes, ordinances, and regulations. A license holder must immediately notify
and cooperate with the Village's police department if the license holder knows
or suspects that a residential rental unit or the premises of the unit is the
location of:
      1.   Any egregious conduct prohibited under subsection (b) of this
section.
      2.   Any other type of criminal activity.
      3.   Any public nuisance. (Ord. 2020-36, 12-14-2020; amd. Ord. 2024-45,
11-11-2024)
4-11-8: TAXES AND FEES:
Each Residential Rental License holder and host platform provider must comply
with all applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations regarding
collection and payment of taxes and fees, including hotel occupancy taxes
provided by Section
3-3D-2  of the Village Code. (Ord. 2020-36, 12-14-2020; amd. Ord. 2024-45, 11-
11-2024)
4-11-9: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Administrative guidelines, rules, and regulations. The Village
Administrator may promulgate reasonable administrative guidelines, rules, and
regulations to implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any person
operating or advertising a residential rental unit who fails to follow any
rules or regulations established pursuant to this section is in violation of
this chapter.
   B.   Delegation of administrative responsibilities. The Village
Administrator may designate one (1) or more employees to:
      1.   Manage the licensing and license renewal process for residential
rental units.
      2.   Educate residential rental licensees, operators, prospective
operators, and the general public about the Village's Residential rental
regulations and the responsibilities of license holders.
      3.   Serve as a liaison with host platform providers.
      4.   Monitor residential rental uses for compliance with regulations.
      5.   Coordinate enforcement of regulations and responses to violations.
      6.   Serve as a point of contact for persons to file complaints about
residential rental units or otherwise seek information regarding residential
rental unit operations.
      7.   Carry out other administrative responsibilities necessary for
fulfilling the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Use of outside contractors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Village
Administrator may delegate any of the administrative responsibilities described
in this section to an outside contractor, subject to the approval of a contract
in compliance with Village requirements.
   D.   Complaint response procedures. If a complaint about a residential
rental unit appears to involve an actual or potential violation of the
provisions of this article, the person or persons designated to receive
complaints shall:
      1.   Investigate the complaint and take appropriate measures to resolve
it, or:
         a.   Forward the complaint to the appropriate staff member, person,
department, or agency for investigation and/or direct the complainant to the
appropriate staff member, person, department, or agency.
         b.   Maintain contact as needed with the appropriate staff member,
person, department, or agency to determine the status of the complaint and how
the complaint was resolved.
      2.   Maintain contact with the complainant, if requested by the
complainant, to advise of the actions taken in response to the complaint.
      3.   Maintain records of complaints for each residential rental unit for
the three (3) preceding years.
      4.   Provide the Village Administrator a monthly report summarizing the
status of pending complaints and the resolution of complaints that have been
closed since the previous report. (Ord. 2020-36, 12-14-2020; amd. Ord. 2024-45,
11-11-2024)
4-11-10: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Enforcement actions. In addition to any other penalties or remedies
provided by law, the Building Commissioner may take any of the following
actions against any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter,
without any requirement that the actions escalate in severity:
      1.   Issuance of a verbal warning.
      2.   Issuance of a notice of violation, which may include:
         a.   A deadline for remediating the violation; and
         b.   The potential consequences for failure to remediate the
violation.
      3.   Imposition of a waiting period before a Residential Rental License
may be applied for, as further provided in this section; or
      4.   A written order of suspension or revocation of a Residential Rental
License, as further provided in this section.
   B.   Liability of License holder and revocation orders. In addition to any
other penalty or remedy provided by law, the Building Commissioner may order
that a Residential Rental License be revoked and the holder of such license be
cited for applicable violation(s) and penalties when the Building Commissioner
determines that:
      1.   Tenants renting or leasing a residential rental unit have engaged in
or allowed others on the premises to engage in any egregious conduct as
prohibited under this chapter.
      2.   On three (3) or more occasions within a twelve (12) month period,
tenants renting or leasing a residential rental unit have engaged in or allowed
others on the premises to engage in any objectionable conduct as prohibited
under this chapter.
      3.   On three (3) or more occasions within a twelve (12)month period,
tenants renting or leasing a residential rental unit have created a nuisance by
violating the requirements of this chapter.
      4.   The license holder has:
         a.   Falsified information on an application for issuance or renewal
of the license.
         b.   Failed to file required reports with the Village or falsified
information on such reports.
         c.   Failed to pay required taxes or fees due in connection with the
Residential Rental License.
         d.   Failed to comply with any other requirement of this chapter.
   C.   Determination of appropriate action. In determining the most
appropriate enforcement action for any of the circumstances described in
subsection B of this section, the Building Commissioner shall consider:
      1.   The impact of the circumstances on neighboring properties and the
area in which the residential rental unit is located.
      2.   The threat to public health, safety, or welfare caused by violations
of the provisions of this chapter.
      3.   The license holder's timely response and good faith effort to
resolve or mitigate the circumstances.
      4.   The history of violations of the provisions of this chapter by the
license holder or in connection with the residential rental unit.
   D.   Notice of suspension or revocation to license holder. Upon determining
that a Residential Rental License should be suspended or revoked, the Building
Commissioner shall notify the license holder in writing of:
      1.   The Building Commissioner's intent to suspend or revoke the license.
      2.   The license holder's right to:
         a.   Request a hearing to appeal the suspension or revocation before
Village Board, within ten calendar days of the date on which the notice was
sent, in a form and manner prescribed by the Village Board.
         b.   Present to the Village Board any testimony, exhibits, or
affidavits pertinent to the license holder's appeal.
   E.   Failure to request hearing. If the Building Commissioner orders that a
Residential Rental License be suspended or revoked, and the license holder
fails to timely request a hearing as allowed under this section, the order to
suspend or revoke the license shall go into effect.
   F.   Immediate suspension. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Building
Commissioner may immediately suspend a Residential Rental License and prohibit
the license holder from renting or leasing a residential rental unit for a
period not to exceed thirty (30) calendar days if the Building Commissioner
determines that continued rental of the residential dwelling will cause an
imminent threat to public health, safety, or welfare. During such suspension
period:
      1.   The Building Commissioner may act to:
         a.   Revoke the license or extend the suspension of the license,
pursuant to the procedures established in this section.
         b.   Reduce the suspension period, if the conditions resulting in the
suspension have been resolved and there appears to be no further threat.
      2.   The license holder may request a hearing before the Village
Administrator, who shall conduct the hearing at the earliest practical time.
The Village Administrator may reverse the suspension, reduce the suspension
period, or allow the suspension to stand. If the license holder fails to
request a hearing during the suspension period, any further actions taken by
the Building Commissioner under this section shall go into effect.
   G.   Effect of suspension or revocation. At the time suspension or
revocation of a Residential Rental License goes into effect:
      1.   The Building Commissioner shall notify the license holder and the
host platform, if applicable, of the suspension or revocation and the effective
dates.
      2.   The Building Commissioner may take action to seek injunctive relief
against a license holder or host platform provider who fails to observe the
suspension or revocation.
      3.   Rental and advertising of the residential rental unit must be ceased
by the license holder, operator and the host platform provider until:
         a.   The suspension period is over and the license holder has met any
conditions for resuming occupancy of the residential rental unit.
         b.   The Village has issued a new license for operation of the
residential rental unit.
   H.   Duration of revocation. If a Residential Rental License is revoked, the
revocation will remain in effect for a period of at least one (1) year from its
effective date before any person may apply for a new license for a residential
rental unit at the same location. Additionally, the license holder may not
apply for a Residential Rental License for any other location for at least two
(2) years from the effective date of the revocation.
   I.   Operating without a license. In addition to any other penalty or remedy
provided by law, a penalty for operating or advertising property for
residential rental use without a license in violation of this chapter shall be
imposed according to the following procedures:
      1.   Upon a determination that property has been operated or advertised
for residential rental use without a license, the Building Commissioner may
impose a waiting period of up to twelve (12) months before any person may apply
for a Residential Rental License for the property or the person operating or
advertising the residential rental unit may apply for a Residential Rental
License for any other location. The Building Commissioner shall determine the
length of the waiting period, based on any of the following factors or
combination of factors:
         a.   Statements made by the person operating or advertising the
residential rental unit use indicating the person was aware or unaware of
requirement to obtain a license.
         b.   Statements made by neighbors or others with knowledge of the
residential rental unit use indicating the person operating or advertising the
residential rental unit use was aware or unaware of requirement to obtain a
license.
         c.   Other evidence that the person operating or advertising the
residential rental unit was informed of the requirement to obtain a license and
disregarded the requirement.
         d.   Evidence that the person operating or advertising the residential
rental unit had looked into license requirements and believed a license was not
required.
         e.   Prior violations of the provisions of this chapter by the person
operating or advertising the residential rental unit.
         f.   Whether the person operating or advertising the residential
rental unit, upon being informed of the Village's license requirements,
continued to rent, lease or advertise the residential rental unit.
      2.   Any person affected by a waiting period imposed by the Building
Commissioner under this section may request a hearing before the Village Board
to appeal the length of the waiting period.
   J.   Special conditions. If a Residential Rental License is subject to any
special conditions established pursuant to this chapter, a violation of any
such conditions shall be subject to the enforcement and penalty provisions set
forth in this section.
   K.   Hearing on suspension, revocation, or waiting period. If a license
holder requests a hearing before the Village Board under this section, the
hearing will be held in accordance with the procedures established under
Section
4-1-17 .
   L.   Other remedies. In addition to or in lieu of any other penalty or
remedy provided for in this chapter, the Village may take any of the following
actions or combination of actions against any person who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter:
      1.   Issuance of a citation and prosecution of the violation before the
Village Board, provided further that each day a violation occurs or continues
shall be considered a separate violation, for which a separate penalty may be
imposed.
      2.   Legal action in a court of competent jurisdiction to:
         a.   Enjoin or abate a violation.
         b.   Recover damages in an amount adequate to compensate the Village
for any costs incurred to enforce the provisions of this article.
      3.   Any other action available under applicable law. (Ord. 2020-36, 12-
14-2020; amd. Ord. 2024-45, 11-11-2024)
CHAPTER 12
DERMAL PIGMENTATION ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
4-12-1: Definitions
4-12-2: License Required
4-12-3: Application Fee
4-12-4: Duration Of License; Renewal
4-12-5: Premises
4-12-6: Operating Requirements
4-12-7: Inspections
4-12-8: License Revocation And Suspension
4-12-9: Transfer Of License Prohibited
4-12-10: Display Of License Required
4-12-11: Exemptions
4-12-12: Dermal Pigmenting Of Minors
4-12-13: Violations; Penalties
4-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this Chapter, the words and terms defined below shall have the
following meanings:
 
                                   Any procedure whereby a part or parts of the
                                   human body are pierced by a sharp instrument
BODY PIERCING:                     in order to allow insertion of a piece or
                                   pieces of jewelry, a ring(s) or other
                                   ornamental device(s) through the orifice(s)
                                   thus created.
                                   Any establishment at which the act of
DERMAL PIGMENTATION ESTABLISHMENT, puncturing the skin and inserting indelible
PERMANENT:                         colors to create permanent pigmentation or
                                   color is performed, as is often associated
                                   with tattoos.
                                   Any method of placing designs, letters,
                                   scrolls, figures, symbols or any other marks
DERMAL PIGMENTING, PERMANENT:      upon or under the skin by the aid of needles
                                   or other instruments designed to touch or
                                   puncture the skin.
                                   Any individual, firm, company, corporation
                                   or association that owns or operates an
                                   establishment where dermal pigmenting is
OPERATOR:                          performed and any individual who performs or
                                   practices the art of dermal pigmenting on
                                   other human beings. (Ord. 2022-28, 6-13-
                                   2022)
 
4-12-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to maintain and
operate a dermal pigmentation establishment, permanent, with or without body
piercing, without first having obtained a license as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 2022-28, 6-13-2022)
4-12-3: APPLICATION FEE:
Every applicant for a license to maintain, operate or conduct a permanent
dermal pigmentation establishment, shall file an application upon a form
provided by the Village Building Commissioner and pay a nonrefundable filing
fee of forty-four dollars ($44.00) to the Village Building and Zoning
Department. The Building Commissioner shall, within fifteen (15) days
thereafter, refer copies of such application and all additional information to
the Police Department and Village Administrator. The Village departments shall,
within forty-five (45) days, inspect the premises proposed to be operated as a
dermal pigmentation establishment, and make recommendations to the Building
Commissioner concerning compliance with the Codes of the Village. Upon receipt
of the recommendations of the respective Village departments, the Building
Commissioner shall notify the applicant as to whether his application has been
granted, denied or held for further investigation. The period of such
additional investigation shall not exceed an additional thirty (30) days. (Ord.
2022-28, 6-13-2022)
4-12-4: DURATION OF LICENSE; RENEWAL:
A license as provided for herein shall expire and shall be renewable as set
forth within Chapter 4-1 of this Title. (Ord. 2022-28, 6-13-2022)
4-12-5: PREMISES:
No permanent dermal pigmentation establishment shall receive a license or be
operated, established or maintained unless the establishment shall comply with
each of the following minimum regulations:
   A.   The establishment shall have a certificate of compliance with or
inspection by the DuPage County Health Department, if available.
   B.   The room in which pigmenting is done shall have an enclosed area of not
less than five hundred (500) square feet. The walls, floors and ceiling shall
have an impervious, smooth and washable surface.
   C.   Toilet facilities shall be provided within the establishment. When five
(5) or more employees or patrons of different sexes are on the premises at the
same time, separate toilet facilities shall be provided. Lavatories shall be
provided with both hot and cold running water and shall be installed in the
toilet room. Lavatories shall be provided with soap and a dispenser with
sanitary towels.
   D.   All tables and other equipment shall be constructed of easily cleanable
material, shall be painted or finished in a light color, with a smooth washable
finish, and shall be separated from waiting customers or observers by a solid
wall or door totally eliminating any view into the pigmenting room.
   E.   Closed cabinets shall be provided for use in the storage of clean
linens, towels, needles, and other materials and instruments used in
pigmenting. All used linens, towels, equipment, instruments, and other
materials shall be kept in properly covered containers or cabinets which shall
be kept separate from the clean storage areas.
A steam sterilizer shall be provided to properly sterilize all needles and
instruments before use on any customer, person or patron. Such needles and
instruments required to be sterilized shall be so used, handled and temporarily
placed during their use so that they will not be contaminated.
   F.   The entire premises and equipment shall be maintained in a clean,
sanitary condition and in good repair.
   G.   No permanent dermal pigmentation establishment shall be open to the
public for business between the hours of ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. and seven
o’clock (7:00) A.M.
   H.   The main entrance door of any permanent dermal pigmentation
establishment shall be visible from a public street and shall remain unlocked
during business hours.
   I.   The business shall also comply with all of the terms and conditions set
forth within Chapter 4-1 of this title with respect to business licenses. (Ord.
2022-28, 6-13-2022)
4-12-6: OPERATING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The operator shall wash his hands thoroughly with antiseptic soap and
water before starting any dermal pigmenting; the hands shall be dried with
individual, single use towels.
   B.   The area on the patron to be pigmented shall first be thoroughly washed
with a sterile, single use sponge with warm water containing an antiseptic
liquid soap. The area should be shaved with a safety razor, using single
service blades for each customer or patron, followed by a solution of seventy
percent (70%) alcohol to be applied to the area before pigmenting/tattooing is
begun.
   C.   Only petroleum jelly in collapsible metal or plastic tubes shall be
used on the area to be tattooed, and it shall be applied with sterile gauze.
   D.   Single service or individual containers of dye or ink shall be used for
each patron, and the container therefor shall be discarded immediately after
completing work on each patron. Any dye in which the needles are dipped shall
not be used on another person. All needles, pigments, dyes, colors and any
other material used in pigmenting and all bandages and surgical dressings used
in connection with pigmenting shall be sterile and free from bacteria, virus
particles and noxious agents and substances. After completing work on any
person, the pigmented area shall be washed with sterile gauze and seventy
percent (70%) alcohol solution and allowed to dry. A sterile gauze dressing
shall be fastened to the pigmented area.
   E.   Operators shall at all times while in the performance of their services
wear uniforms or garments which cover the torso, and said garments shall be
kept clean and in a sanitary condition.
   F.   No person, while on the premises of any permanent dermal pigmentation
establishment, shall possess, sell, dispense, provide, give, keep or maintain
any alcoholic beverage.
   G.   No intoxicated person shall be pigmented by an operator on the licensed
premises.
   H.   Operators shall at all times comply with the regulations of the
Department of Labor's Occupational Safety and Health Administration (29 CFR §
1910.1030), as presently existing or hereafter amended, with respect to
occupational exposure to blood, bloodborne pathogens or other potentially
infectious materials, which regulations are incorporated by reference herein.
(Ord. 2022-28, 6-13-2022)
4-12-7: INSPECTIONS:
Any Village department or agency may perform an inspection of each
establishment granted a license under the provisions of this Chapter for the
purposes of determining compliance with the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord.
2022-28, 6-13-2022)
4-12-8: LICENSE REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION:
It shall be cause for revocation or suspension that a licensee has violated the
provisions of this Chapter or any Code or ordinance of the Village relative to
operation of the business or use of the premises, has made a false statement on
any application for license under this Chapter or, in the event that the
licensee shall refuse to permit any authorized police officer or authorized
member of the Police Department or Building Department of the Village to
inspect the premises or the operations thereof at reasonable times. (Ord. 2022-
28, 6-13-2022)
4-12-9: TRANSFER OF LICENSE PROHIBITED:
No license for the operation of a permanent dermal pigmentation establishment
shall be transferable. (Ord. 2022-28, 6-13-2022)
4-12-10: DISPLAY OF LICENSE REQUIRED:
Each licensee shall display a valid current license in a conspicuous place
within the licensed establishment so that the same may be readily seen by
persons entering the establishment. (Ord. 2022-28, 6-13-2022)
4-12-11: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to licensed medical doctors or
doctors of osteopathic medicine who perform body piercing or dermally pigment
individuals while in the course of their medical practice. (Ord. 2022-28, 6-13-
2022)
4-12-12: DERMAL PIGMENTING OF MINORS:
In accordance with 720 ILCS 5/12-10, no person under the age of twenty-one (21)
may be pigmented except by a person authorized to practice medicine or
osteopathic medicine as hereinabove set forth. (Ord. 2022-28, 6-13-2022)
4-12-13 VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: Any building used as a massage establishment in
violation of this chapter with the intentional knowing, reckless or negligent
permission of the owner thereof, or the agent of the owner managing the
building, together with all fixtures and other property used in violation of
this chapter, is hereby declared a nuisance.
   B.   Penalties: In addition to license suspension or revocation as
hereinabove provided, any person, firm or corporation violating the terms and
provisions of this Chapter shall be liable for a penalty in the amount of one
hundred percent (100%) of any unpaid fee or applicable license and,
furthermore, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. A separate offense shall be determined to have been
committed each day during which or on which the violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2022-28, 6-13-2022)
TITLE 5
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Nuisances Enumerated
5-1-2: Statute And County Nuisances
5-1-3: Penalty
5-1-1: NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit a nuisance or to allow a nuisance
to exist/be maintained on any property under the person's control. The
following are hereby declared nuisances: (Ord. 72-27, 7-12-1972; amd. 2012
Code)
   A.   Dangerous Premises: To permit any building, structure, or place to
remain in such a condition as to be dangerous to the public health or safety in
any manner.
   B.   Offensive Businesses: To maintain or operate any rendery, tallow
chandlery, soap factory, glue factory, tannery, packing plant, or
slaughterhouse anywhere in the Village or within one mile of the limits
thereof.
   C.   Manufacturing Explosives: To carry on the business of manufacturing
gunpowder, nitroglycerin, or other highly explosive substances, or mixing or
grinding the materials therefor, in any building within three hundred fifty
feet (350') of any structure or building erected at the time such business may
be commenced.
   D.   Powder Magazines Near Dwellings: To establish powder magazines within
one thousand feet (1,000') of any occupied dwelling house.
   E.   Offensive Deposits Generally: To cause or suffer the carcass of any
animal or any offal, filth, or noisome substance to be collected, deposited, or
to remain in any place, to the prejudice of others.
   F.   Offensive Deposits In Water Bodies And Public Ways: To throw or deposit
any offal or other offensive matter, or the carcass of any dead animal, in any
watercourse, lake, pond, spring, well or common sewer, street or public
highway.
   G.   Deposit Of Garbage And Refuse Without Consent Of Property Owner: To
dump, deposit, or place any garbage, rubbish, trash, or refuse on real property
owned by another without the consent of the owner or person in possession of
same real property.
   H.   Stagnant Water: To obstruct, or to allow the obstruction, of any ditch,
culvert, or gutter so as to cause water to stagnate therein to the detriment of
the public health; further, for any person to cause or allow any stagnant pool
of water on any property under his control.
   I.   Obstructing, Polluting Water: To obstruct or corrupt or render
unwholesome or impure the water of any spring, river, stream, pond, or lake, to
the injury or prejudice of others.
   J.   Obstructing Navigable Waterways: To obstruct or impede, without legal
authority, the passage of any navigable river or waters. (Ord. 72-27, 7-12-
1972)
   K.   Obstructing, Encroaching Upon Public Ways And Places: To obstruct or
encroach upon public highways, private ways, streets, alleys, commons, landing
places, and ways to burying places, except as may be specifically authorized by
ordinance or by the Village Engineer. (Ord. 72-27, 7-12-1972; amd. 2012 Code;
Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
   L.   Offensive Odors: To erect, continue, or use any building, structure, or
real estate for the exercise of any trade, employment, or manufacture, which,
by occasioning noxious exhalations, offensive smells, or otherwise, is
offensive or dangerous to the health of individuals or the public.
   M.   Posting Advertisements Without Permission: To advertise wares or
occupations by painting notices of the same on, or affixing them to, fences or
other private property, or on lots or other natural objects, without the
consent of the owner, or if in the highway or other public place, without
permission of the proper authorities; provided, that nothing in this subsection
shall be construed to prevent the President and Board of Trustees from
declaring what shall be nuisances and abating them within the limits of the
Village. (Ord. 72-27, 7-12-1972)
5-1-2: STATUTE AND COUNTY NUISANCES:
It shall be unlawful to commit any act which constitutes a nuisance according
to the statutes of the state of Illinois and the ordinances of the county.
(Ord. 72-27, 7-12-1972)
5-1-3: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation who shall be convicted of a violation of any
provision of this chapter shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each offense shall result in a fine in the amount not less
than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). (Ord. 72-27, 7-12-1972; amd. 2012
Code; Ord. 2020-34, 11-23-2020)
CHAPTER 2
SOLID AND LIQUID WASTE 1
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definitions
5-2-2: Storage And Disposal Requirements
5-2-3: Prohibitions Regarding Accumulation, Storage And Disposal
5-2-4: Additional Prohibitions
5-2-5: Removal Of Garbage And Debris Required; Failure To Comply
5-2-6: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 4-1-13C of this code.
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
BULK MATERIAL: Any refuse item, not otherwise covered or excluded, that is too
large to fit into an approved refuse container and which exceeds fifty (50)
pounds in weight. Examples include sofas, large tables and chairs, dressers,
bookcases, mattresses and box springs, other large household furniture, and
large appliances which do not contain CFC or HCFC refrigerant gas, PCB
containing capacitors, mercury switches, or other hazardous components.
CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS: Any waste or refuse collected at premises on which the
construction, reconstruction, alteration or remodeling of a building(s) and/or
structure(s) is in process and which waste and refuse originates and is derived
from such construction processes and operations including paper, cartons,
boxes, barrels, wood, packing material made from wood shavings, concrete,
brick, lumber, metal, scraps and shavings, and similar materials.
CUSTOMER: Any person, firm, corporation or other entity who owns, leases,
occupies, or manages any premises within the village, or who is otherwise
responsible for providing for the removal of garbage and/or refuse from said
premises, and who is required to obtain garbage and/or refuse removal service
by a scavenger as provided in subsection 5-2-2D of this chapter.
E-WASTE: Electronic waste banned from Illinois landfills, including, but not
limited to, such items as: TVs, DVD and MP3 players, cellphones, computers,
monitors, printers, scanners, laptops, fax machines, game consoles, etc.
GARBAGE: Includes, but is not limited to, food waste, fruit, commonly edible
vegetable, animal, fish or fowl matter; food containers of any nature and other
material of any nature which is subject to rapid decay, putrefaction and
generation of noxious gases or odors and which serve as breeding or feeding
materials for insects, rodents or other animals.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: Any material or combination of materials, in any state of
matter that poses a threat to public health or the environment by exhibiting
characteristics such as: carcinogenic, ignitable, oxidizing, corrosive, toxic,
radioactive or explosive, and including such household items as batteries,
paints, pesticides, electronics and automotive waste. Hazardous waste as
defined by the U.S. resource conservation and recovery act, as amended, or any
state or local laws or regulations with respect thereto, or a "toxic substance"
as defined in the toxic substance control act, as amended, or any regulations
with respect thereto, or any reportable quantity of a "hazardous substance" as
defined by the comprehensive environmental response, compensation and liability
act of 1980, as amended, or any regulations with respect thereto. The term
"hazardous waste" also includes any waste storage, treatment, incineration or
disposal that requires a special license or permit from any federal, state or
local government entity, body or agency and any substance that is determined to
be hazardous or toxic by any judicial or governmental entity, body or agency
having jurisdiction to make such determination.
LIQUID WASTE: Waste classified as liquid in accordance with the federal EPA
assessment process, to include any waste (excluding hazardous waste and
sanitary wastewater) that is liquid at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C) regardless
of whether or not it is packaged or otherwise contained, and irrespective of
whether or not the packaging or container is to be disposed of together with
the liquid that it contains.
PERSON: An individual, firm, company, partnership, or corporation.
PREMISES: Each separate residence, apartment unit, condominium unit, or other
dwelling unit, industrial or commercial establishment, motel, hotel, school,
church, hospital, club building or meeting hall and every structure or building
within the village which is occupied for any purpose.
RECYCLABLE MATERIAL: Materials that have a useful second life in the economic
cycle if they are successfully collected, separated, processed, and marketed
for return to the economic mainstream. Recyclable materials shall include
aluminum cans, tin/steel/bimetal cans, colored and clear glass bottles, HDPE
and PET plastic containers, newspaper, magazines, catalogs, telephone
directories, corrugated cardboard, chipboard, 6-pack rings, and any other items
contractually agreed to. Said materials shall be free of garbage or refuse and
stored in a sanitary and healthful manner for purposes of delivering to an
authorized recyclable accumulation facility.
REFUSE: Every type of waste material, excluding garbage, recyclable materials,
hazardous waste, and any waste prohibited from collection by law. Refuse
includes, but is not limited to, debris, appliances, furniture, furnishings and
fixtures; and all other material which is not subject to rapid decay or
decomposition and which does not serve as breeding or feeding material for
insects, rodents or other animals.
SCAVENGER: Any person, firm, or corporation licensed by the village to provide
residential and/or commercial garbage and refuse removal services within the
village, and as further defined in article A of this chapter.
SOLID WASTE: Refers collectively to garbage, refuse, yard waste, and recyclable
materials.
WHITE GOODS: Any domestic and/or commercial large appliance that contains CFC
or HCFC refrigerant gas, PCB containing capacitors, mercury switches, or other
hazardous components. Examples include, but are not limited to, refrigerators,
freezers, air conditioners, ranges (both electric and gas), dehumidifiers,
water heaters, furnaces, and other similar large appliances.
YARD WASTE: Consists of both hard landscape (e.g., limbs, branches, or other
loose items), and soft landscape (grass clippings, leaves, and plant
materials). (Ord. 2012-26, 5-29-2012)
5-2-2: STORAGE AND DISPOSAL REQUIREMENTS 1 :
All garbage and refuse located within the village shall be stored, contained
and disposed of by each occupant/owner/customer of each premises within the
village in accordance with the following requirements:
   A.   Collection:
      1.   Residential: Curbside refuse and recyclable material collection
service are provided by the village authorized residential scavenger. Wheeled
refuse and recycling carts shall be supplied by the residential scavenger for
weekly refuse and recycling collection.
      2.   Multi-Family And Commercial: All multi-family residential and
commercial establishments are required to contract with a commercial scavenger
for garbage and refuse collection service. The type, size and number of
containers used and the number of pick ups required shall be commensurate with
the amount of accumulation of such garbage and refuse at any one premises, but
shall not be collected less than one time per week.
      3.   Occupied Premises: All occupied premises within the village are
required to establish an account with and be serviced by a scavenger licensed
with the village. Residential units covered by a homeowners' association
scavenger contract are not required to establish a separate account.
   B.   Containers:
      1.   Type:
         a.   Can: A plastic or galvanized metal can of a capacity not less
than four (4) gallons and not to exceed thirty four (34) gallons in size. No
garbage can shall exceed fifty (50) pounds in weight when filled.
         b.   Bag: A plastic bag of a capacity not to exceed thirty three (33)
gallons in size and fifty (50) pounds in weight when filled.
         c.   Cart: A wheeled plastic container with a tightfitting top, not to
exceed ninety five (95) gallons in size, designed to be lifted by and emptied
hydraulically into a collection truck. All carts for residential collection
must be supplied by the residential scavenger.
         d.   Dumpster: A large metal or plastic receptacle, one cubic yard or
greater, used exclusively for the temporary storage of solid waste, recyclables
or yard waste material, which is designed to be lifted by and emptied
hydraulically into a collection truck.
         e.   Kraft Paper Bag: A special biodegradable paper bag, which shreds
and degrades quickly in the composting process, not to exceed thirty three (33)
gallons in size and fifty (50) pounds in weight when filled.
         f.   Bundle: A bundle of material shall consist of any refuse material
tied together, not to exceed eighteen inches (18") in diameter and fifty (50)
pounds in weight. No item contained within each bundle shall exceed two inches
(2") in diameter.
      2.   Number, Use Required:
         a.   Each occupant, owner or customer of any premises in the village
shall provide, and at all times properly maintain, a sufficient size and/or
number of containers for that customer's garbage or refuse.
         b.   It shall be unlawful for any occupant, owner, or customer of any
premises to deposit solid waste into a container provided for another premises,
with or without the approval of the occupant/owner/customer of said premises.
         c.   No garbage and refuse may be stored or placed in an interior area
accessible to the public or in any exterior location other than in a container.
         d.   No occupant, owner, or customer shall be limited to any number of
containers (except where limited by the residential scavenger contract);
however, whenever the building and zoning official deems necessary to protect
the public health, welfare and safety, he may require the owner of such
premises to provide a dumpster(s).
      3.   Maintenance Required:
         a.   All containers must comply with the standards set forth herein.
All containers shall be kept clean, leakproof and disinfected with an effective
antiseptic solution as often as necessary so that same shall remain in a
sanitary condition.
         b.   Compliance with these requirements shall be determined by the
village building and zoning official. If the building and zoning official shall
find that the requirements have not been met, he may issue a citation for
failure to comply with this chapter, and he may, in addition, require that the
containers will either be repaired or replaced by the occupant and/or the owner
of such premises, or the residential scavenger. Failure to replace the
containers within three (3) days after notice shall constitute a violation
under this chapter.
      4.   Placement For Pick Up, Time For Removal: For any premises for which
refuse and recycling collection is contained by use of a cart supplied by the
residential scavenger, it shall be the duty of the occupant/owner/customer of
such premises to cause such cart to be placed in the parkway at the curb line,
unless other arrangements have been made between such customer and the
residential scavenger. Refuse or recycling carts shall not be set out earlier
than six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on the night before collection. All carts shall be
removed from the specified location no later than twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight on the day the scavenger has been present for the purpose of
collection and disposal.
      5.   Placement On Noncollection Days: On days other than the scheduled
day for collection, all containers must be screened from view in the front
yard, as provided for in section
10-9-2 of this code.
   C.   Preparation For Disposal:
      1.   Garbage: It shall be the duty of every occupant/owner/customer to
cause all garbage produced or present on each premises to be securely wrapped,
bagged or packed in a paper or plastic bag constructed of not less than one and
one-half (1.5) mill material or a covered box or carton that will fit into a
container. After such preparation, the bag, box or carton shall be deposited
into a container which shall then be closed.
      2.   Refuse: Refuse must be placed in a container which shall then be
closed. Acceptable bulk material or refuse items too large to fit into
residential refuse cart may be placed along side said cart (excluding hazardous
materials and any materials banned by law from collection).
      3.   Yard Waste:
         a.   Residential Curbside Collection:
            (1)   Soft landscape may be deposited into either a biodegradable
kraft paper bag, not to exceed thirty three (33) gallons in size and weighing
no more than fifty (50) pounds, or into a can not to exceed thirty four (34)
gallons in size or fifty (50) pounds in weight, set out at the curb with a yard
waste sticker attached.
            (2)   Hard landscape may be placed outside bags and cans if such
materials are cut up and securely bound into bundles of no more than four feet
(4') in length and fifty (50) pounds in weight. Each branch shall not exceed
two inches (2") in diameter, and each bundle shall be no more than eighteen
inches (18") in total diameter.
            (3)   Residences serviced by Townhome Association Landscape
Contractors shall dispose of yard waste in accordance with their homeowners'
association's rules.
         b.   Multi-Family And Commercial: All multi-family and commercial
premises are required to secure their own yard waste collection service. The
size and number of yard waste dumpsters used and the number of pick ups
required shall be commensurate with the amount of accumulation of yard waste at
any one premises.
      4.   Recyclable Material: Recyclable material should be rinsed clean of
food with caps/lids removed before placed into either a recycling cart or
dumpster for collection.
      5.   Bulk Material And White Goods: Bulk material, white goods and refuse
items too large to fit into a refuse cart, may be placed next to a refuse cart
for curbside residential refuse collection. A refrigerator or freezer
manufactured prior to 1970 must have the door totally disconnected and
separated therefrom, if manufactured after 1970 the door may be duct taped
shut.
   D.   Disposal By Scavenger: All occupied premises within the village must
receive garbage and refuse collection services. Single-family premises must
receive said collection service from the residential scavenger; multi-family
and commercial premises must receive said collection service from a commercial
scavenger. No customer/occupant/owner shall use the disposal services of any
scavenger not licensed by the village for the purpose of removal of garbage or
refuse. (Ord. 2012-26, 5-29-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 10-9-2, subsection 308.1 of this code.
5-2-3: PROHIBITIONS REGARDING ACCUMULATION, STORAGE AND DISPOSAL:
The following are prohibited in connection with the accumulation, storage or
disposal of garbage or refuse within the village:
   A.   Failure To Comply With Village Regulations: No customer, occupant, or
owner of any premises within the village shall accumulate, store or dispose of
solid or liquid waste in violation of the prohibitions of this section or any
other applicable provision of this code.
   B.   Burning: It shall be unlawful for any person to burn solid or liquid
waste within the village.
   C.   Burying: It shall be unlawful for any person to bury solid or liquid
waste anywhere within the village (excluding the composting of yard waste), or
to permit the same to be placed or accumulated in any place or manner other
than in a permitted container.
   D.   Accumulation: It shall be unlawful for any person to accumulate any
solid or liquid waste on any premises except in compliance with the provisions
hereof. (Ord. 2012-26, 5-29-2012)
5-2-4: ADDITIONAL PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   No person shall:
      1.   Cause or allow the open dumping of any solid or liquid waste on any
property within the village.
      2.   Abandon, dump, or deposit any solid or liquid waste upon public
right of way or other public property within the village.
      3.   Abandon any vehicle in violation of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/4-201 of the Illinois vehicle code.
      4.   Conduct any solid or liquid waste storage, treatment, or disposal
without a permit granted by the federal or Illinois environmental protection
agencies or in violation of any conditions imposed by such permit, including
periodic reports and full access to adequate records and the inspection of
facilities, as may be necessary to assure compliance with this chapter and with
other applicable regulations and standards.
      5.   For any detached or attached single-family premises, use a scavenger
service other than the village residential scavenger.
      6.   For any scavenger, who is not the village residential scavenger, to
collect or remove garbage, refuse or yard waste from any detached or attached
single-family premises within the village.
      7.   For any scavenger, who is not licensed by the village, to collect or
remove garbage, refuse or yard waste from any premises within the village.
(Ord. 2012-26, 5-29-2012)
5-2-5: REMOVAL OF GARBAGE AND DEBRIS REQUIRED; FAILURE TO COMPLY:
   A.   It is the duty of the occupant or owner of any property to remove all
solid and liquid waste or construction debris from said property or premises.
   B.   In the event the occupant or owner of any property or premises refuses
or neglects to remove the solid or liquid waste after reasonable notice from
the village, the village may provide for the removal of said solid or liquid
waste pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-13, and collect from
such owner the reasonable cost thereof.
   C.   Within sixty (60) days after such cost and expense is incurred, as
described in subsection B of this section, the village shall file such a lien
in the office of the county recorder of deeds. (Ord. 2012-26, 5-29-2012)
5-2-6: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall, in addition to any license revocation or suspension, and one hundred
percent (100%) payment of any unpaid fee, be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each offense shall result in a fine in the amount not less
than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). (Ord. 2012-26, 5-29-2012; amd. Ord.
2020-34, 11-23-2020)
CHAPTER 2
SOLID AND LIQUID WASTE
ARTICLE A. SCAVENGERS
SECTION:
5-2A-1: Definitions
5-2A-2: License Required
5-2A-3: Number Of Licenses
5-2A-4: Application For License; Fee
5-2A-5: Financial And Service Responsibility
5-2A-6: Bond And Insurance Requirements
5-2A-7: Right To Deny License
5-2A-8: Term Of License; Display Required
5-2A-9: Removal Of Recyclables From Apartment Buildings Required
5-2A-10: Vehicle Requirements
5-2A-11: Requirements At Collection Site
5-2A-12: Storage And Disposal Of Garbage And Refuse
5-2A-13: Inspections
5-2A-14: Revocation Or Suspension Of License
5-2A-15: Violations Prohibited
5-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
COMMERCIAL SCAVENGER: A person, firm or corporation licensed by the village to
collect, remove and dispose of garbage and refuse from each multi-family
residential structure of more than two (2) families, and all other premises.
EXCLUSIVE CONTRACT: Written contract for residential scavenger service awarded
by the village of Bloomingdale to a single contractor, and amended from time to
time.
RESIDENTIAL SCAVENGER: A person, firm or corporation licensed by the village to
collect, remove and dispose of garbage and refuse only from each and every
single-family or duplex residential structure. (Ord. 82-13, 5-24-1982; amd.
Ord. 93-55, 11-8-1993)
5-2A-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Except as set forth in this chapter, no person, firm or corporation shall
remove garbage, refuse or recyclable materials from any premises in the
village, or in any manner dispose of garbage, refuse or recyclables originating
within the limits of the village, or contract for or permit himself or itself
to be employed or engaged for the removal, transportation or disposal of such
garbage, refuse or recyclables without first having secured from the village a
scavenger license. (Ord. 88-43, 9-26-1988)
5-2A-3: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
   A.   Residential: The village shall issue one scavenger license, which
license shall allow for acting as a residential scavenger. The village may
solicit bids for residential scavenger services.
   B.   Commercial: The village shall issue licenses for commercial scavengers,
provided they meet all requirements as set forth by the village. (Ord. 88-43,
9-26-1988)
5-2A-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE:
Application for a scavenger license shall be made to the village clerk upon
forms provided. The annual fee as provided in section
4-1-5-1 of this code shall accompany each application. (Ord. 82-13, 5-24-1982;
amd. 2012 Code)
5-2A-5: FINANCIAL AND SERVICE RESPONSIBILITY:
Every applicant must demonstrate that it has adequate and sufficient equipment,
personnel, financial responsibility and a licensed and approved disposal site
wherein it may lawfully dispose of all garbage and refuse collected by such
licensee within the village. The village administrator may establish
appropriate specifications and procedures for license applications which an
applicant must satisfy and fulfill in order to comply with the provisions
hereof. (Ord. 82-13, 5-24-1982)
5-2A-6: BOND AND INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Each scavenger shall provide evidence of workers' compensation
insurance coverage in a minimum amount of five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00), pursuant to Illinois law, and shall carry public liability
insurance protecting the scavenger and village with limits of not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per person, and five million dollars
($5,000,000.00) for any one occurrence, and the scavenger shall carry property
damage insurance protecting the scavenger and the village with limits of not
less than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for each occurrence. Such
insurance will protect the scavenger and the village from any liability, loss
or damage, or any claims of such liability, loss or damage, resulting, or
claimed to have resulted as a result of operations of the scavenger or pursuant
to its operations. Said insurance shall be secured from a responsible company
acceptable to the village, and certificates of insurance shall be furnished to
the village by the scavenger.
   B.   In addition, the scavenger shall agree to and shall hold the village
harmless as to any liability or claims of liability arising under or pursuant
to its scavenger operation or contract. (Ord. 82-13, 5-24-1982)
5-2A-7: RIGHT TO DENY LICENSE:
The village shall have the right to deny a license to any applicant who fails
to meet any applicable requirements of this article, or the application
specifications established by the village. (Ord. 82-13, 5-24-1982)
5-2A-8: TERM OF LICENSE; DISPLAY REQUIRED:
Any license shall be in full force and effect and valid for a one year period.
The license shall be provided by the village and displayed on each licensee's
motor vehicle used in the village for scavenger purposes. (Ord. 82-13, 5-24-
1982)
5-2A-9: REMOVAL OF RECYCLABLES FROM APARTMENT BUILDINGS REQUIRED:
   A.   A commercial scavenger providing service to apartment buildings, as a
condition of licensure, shall submit a written plan to the village at the time
when the initial application or renewal for licensure is made, setting forth a
recycling plan for the apartments serviced including, but not limited to:
      1.   The type of dumpster to be used for collection of recyclable
materials.
      2.   A map showing the dumpster location, which shall be located no more
than two hundred feet (200') from the nearest entry or exit into the apartment
building, and a description of the capacity of the dumpster showing a minimum
capacity of 0.033 cubic yards per apartment unit.
   B.   No commercial scavenger will be permitted to operate within the village
offering service to apartment buildings unless and until such time as that
scavenger offers those customers the same recycling opportunities as are
offered to other residents in the village by the residential scavenger
operating under exclusive license and contract to the village. (Ord. 93-55, 11-
8-1993)
5-2A-10: VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Type Of Vehicle: No person, firm or corporation shall transport
garbage, refuse or recyclable materials over the streets or other public ways
in the village unless such garbage, refuse or recyclable materials are
contained in a leakproof compaction type vehicle, commonly referred to as a
"packer type" refuse body, or a vehicle approved and licensed by the village.
   B.   Maintenance Required: Such equipment shall be maintained in good
condition and repair to prevent nuisance and insect breeding and kept, when not
in use, in a closed building or shed if housed within the village. (Ord. 88-43,
9-26-1988)
5-2A-11: REQUIREMENTS AT COLLECTION SITE:
   A.   A scavenger shall immediately clean up any garbage, refuse or
recyclable materials that it may have caused to spill on private or public
places, and shall perform the function in a neat and workmanlike manner, and
shall replace any permanent type garbage containers which its agents or
employees may have damaged. (Ord. 88-43, 9-26-1988; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Containers provided for the recycling program must be stacked and
replaced in an orderly fashion near the curb. (Ord. 88-43, 9-26-1988)
5-2A-12: STORAGE AND DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE:
It shall be unlawful for any scavenger to dispose of or to store any garbage or
refuse in any place within the village limits, without the prior written
permission of the village administrator. (Ord. 82-13, 5-24-1982)
5-2A-13: INSPECTIONS:
The village building and zoning official or other personnel designated by the
village administrator shall inspect or cause to be inspected, as often as it is
deemed necessary, scavenger refuse vehicles; bulk storage containers of
commercial, multi- family, institutional or industrial establishments; and
methods of doing business utilized by each licensee hereunder to determine
whether there is compliance with all applicable provisions of this article.
(Ord. 82-13, 5-24-1982)
5-2A-14: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
The village shall have the right, after a public hearing pursuant to prior
reasonable notice to the scavenger, to revoke or suspend a license if it is
determined that such licensee has violated any of the provisions of this
article, or any other applicable provisions of this code or any written
agreement between the village and such scavenger. Any suspension or revocation
of a license shall not prevent the imposition of any other penalty provided in
this code. (Ord. 82-13, 5-24-1982)
5-2A-15: VIOLATIONS PROHIBITED:
No licensee shall dump or otherwise place or dispose of garbage or refuse,
construction debris or recyclables in violation of the laws of the state or the
ordinances of the village. Each offense shall result in a fine in the amount
not less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). (Ord. 82-13, 5-24-1982; amd.
Ord. 2020-34, 11-23-2020)
CHAPTER 3
ILLICIT DISCHARGE DETECTION AND ELIMINATION
SECTION:
5-3-1: Short Title
5-3-2: Statute Authority
5-3-3: Purposes
5-3-4: Rules And Definitions
5-3-5: Applicability And Interpretation
5-3-6: Administration Of Provisions
5-3-7: Discharge Prohibitions And Exemptions
5-3-8: Industrial Activity Discharges; Notice Of Intent
5-3-9: Compliance Monitoring
5-3-10: Violations, Enforcement And Penalties
5-3-11: Suspension Of MS4 Access
5-3-12: Appeals
5-3-13: Enforcement Measures After Appeal
5-3-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the VILLAGE OF BLOOMINGDALE
ILLICIT DISCHARGE DETECTION AND ELIMINATION ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2009-30, 9-14-
2009)
5-3-2: STATUTE AUTHORITY:
The village promulgates this chapter pursuant to its authority to adopt
ordinances pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-
30-2, 5/11-30-8, and 5/11-31-2 and such other authority as applicable to the
village, and other applicable authority, all as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2009-30, 9-14-2009)
5-3-3: PURPOSES:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to ensure the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of village, and to protect and enhance water
quality in a manner pursuant to and consistent with the federal water pollution
control act (33 USC section 1251 et seq.) through the regulation of
nonstormwater discharges to the storm drainage system. This chapter establishes
methods for controlling the introduction of discharges other than those
occurring as a direct result of precipitation and/or snowmelt into the
municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) and the storm drainage system in
order to comply with requirements of the national pollutant discharge
elimination system (NPDES) phase II permit process. Other purposes of this
chapter include:
      1.   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the MS4 and the storm
drainage system by nonstormwater discharges; and
      2.   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the MS4 and the
storm drainage system.
   B.   The purposes of this chapter are consistent with the county stormwater
management plan (the "plan"), which advances the following objectives:
      1.   To protect and enhance the quality, quantity, and availability of
surface water and groundwater resources.
      2.   To preserve and enhance existing aquatic and riparian environments
and encourage restoration of degraded areas.
      3.   To promote equitable, acceptable, and legal measures for stormwater
management.
   C.   The purposes of this chapter shall be implemented by its provisions.
(Ord. 2009-30, 9-14-2009)
5-3-4: RULES AND DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Interpretation Of Words And Terms: For the purposes of this chapter,
the terms and words used herein shall be interpreted as follows:
      1.   Words used in the present tense include the future tense; and
      2.   Words used in the singular number include the plural number, and
words used in the plural number include the singular number; and
      3.   The words "shall", "will", and "must" are mandatory, not permissive;
and
      4.   The term "Director" refers to the individual responsible for
ordinance administration and enforcement. (Ord. 2009-30, 9-14-2009)
   B.   Definitions: For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings set forth, except where otherwise specifically
indicated. Words and terms not defined shall have the meanings indicated by
common dictionary definition.
BUILDING: A structure that is constructed or erected partially or wholly
aboveground and is enclosed by walls and a roof. The term "building" includes
manufactured homes and includes both the aboveground and the belowground
portions of the structure.
CLEAN WATER ACT (CWA): The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 USC section
1251 et seq.) and any subsequent amendments thereto.
COMMITTEE: The Village of Bloomingdale Planning, Zoning and Environmental
Concerns Committee of the Village Board, or successor committee.
COMMUNITY: Any municipality or the unincorporated county within DuPage County
acting as a unit of local government.
COUNTY: The County of DuPage, Illinois.
DEPARTMENT: The Village of Bloomingdale Engineering Department or successor
agency.
DIRECTOR: The Village Engineer or successor position or his or her designee(s).
DRAIN: Piping and appurtenances for conveying a fluid.
FACILITY: Something that is built, installed, or established to serve a
particular purpose.
HAZARDOUS MATERIAL: Any material which may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial hazard to human health, safety, property, or the environment.
ILLICIT CONNECTION: Either of the following:
      1.   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface, that
allows an illicit discharge to enter the storm drainage system including, but
not limited to, any conveyances that allow any nonstormwater discharge
including sewage, process wastewater, and washwater to enter the storm drainage
system and any connections to the storm drainage system from indoor drains and
sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously
allowed, permitted, or approved by the community; or
      2.   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the storm drainage system that has not been documented in plans,
maps, or equivalent records and approved by the community.
ILLICIT DISCHARGE: Any direct or indirect nonstormwater discharge to the storm
drainage system, except as exempted in subsection 5-3-7A3 of this chapter.
INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITIES: Activities subject to an industrial NPDES stormwater
permit, as defined in 40 CFR section 122.26 (b)(14).
LINE: A hollow conduit through which fluids are transported between two (2) or
more points.
MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4): A conveyance or system of
conveyances (including, but not limited to, sidewalks, roads with drainage
systems, Municipal streets, catch basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, manmade
channels, and storm sewers) owned or operated by a governmental entity and
designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater, and that is not used
for collecting or conveying sewage.
NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT: A permit issued
by Illinois environmental protection agency (IEPA) that authorizes the
discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is
applicable on an individual, group, or general areawide basis.
NONSTORMWATER DISCHARGE: Any discharge to the storm drainage system that is not
the direct result of precipitation and/or snowmelt in the tributary drainage
basin.
NOTICE OF INTENT (NOI): Illinois environmental protection agency notice of
intent to participate in coverage under the general permit to discharge
stormwater associated with industrial activity.
PARCEL: Contiguous land under single ownership or control.
PERSON: Any individual, association, partnership, public or private
corporation, municipality, political subdivision, government agency, or any
other legal entity, including heirs, successors, agents, officers, and assigns
of such entity.
pH NEUTRAL: pH value between 6.5 and 9.0 standard units.
PLAN: The DuPage County stormwater management plan, adopted by the DuPage
County board in September 1989, as amended from time to time.
POLLUTANT: Anything that causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may
include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; nonhazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects, and
accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution; floatables;
pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous substances and wastes;
sewage, wastewater, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate
metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from constructing a
building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
PREMISES: Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land, whether
improved or unimproved, including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
RUNOFF: The waters derived from precipitation and/or melting snow within a
tributary drainage basin that exceeds the infiltration capacity of that basin.
SEWAGE: Polluted stormwater, wastewater, or other refuse liquids usually
conveyed by sewers.
SEWER: An artificial conduit to carry off sewage and/or surface water (as from
rainfall), including sanitation, stormwater, and/or combined sewers.
SEWERAGE: A system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation, pumping, and treatment of sewage.
STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM: A facility by which stormwater is collected and/or
conveyed, including, but not limited to, any roads with drainage systems,
municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm drains, pumping
facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and humanmade or altered
drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures.
STORMWATER: Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage from any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation.
STRUCTURE: Anything that is erected or constructed. The term "structure"
includes, without limitation: buildings, manufactured homes, tanks, dams,
sewers, constructed channels, outfalls, parking lots, driveways, roads,
sidewalks, and concrete patios.
VILLAGE: The Village of Bloomingdale, Illinois, a Municipality with home rule
powers pursuant to State Statute.
WASTEWATER: Water that has been used and is not for reuse unless treated by a
wastewater treatment facility.
WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES: As defined in the CWA, "waters of the United
States", applies only to surface waters, rivers, lakes, estuaries, coastal
waters, and wetlands. Not all surface waters are legally "waters of the United
States". Generally, those waters include the following:
      1.   All interstate waters;
      2.   Intrastate waters used in interstate and/or foreign commerce;
      3.   Tributaries of the above;
      4.   Territorial seas at the cyclical high tide mark; and
      5.   Wetlands adjacent to all the above. (Ord. 2009-30, 9-14-2009; amd.
2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
5-3-5: APPLICABILITY AND INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Applicability: This chapter shall apply to all water entering the storm
drainage system from any developed or undeveloped lands within the jurisdiction
of the department, unless explicitly exempted by subsection 5-3-7A3 of this
chapter, including any amendments or revisions thereto.
   B.   Interpretation:
      1.   The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be the minimum
requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort,
convenience, prosperity, and general welfare and the environment of the
residents of the Village, and to effectuate the purposes of this chapter and
enabling legislation.
      2.   a. Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this chapter are
either more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed
by any other applicable statute, law, ordinance, regulation, or rule, the
provision that is most restrictive or imposes the higher standards or
requirements shall apply.
         b.   This chapter is not intended to modify or repeal any other
ordinance, rule, regulation, or other provision of law. Where any provision of
this chapter imposes restrictions different from those imposed by any other
ordinance, rule, regulation, or other provision of law, whichever provision is
more restrictive or imposes higher protective standards for human health or the
environment shall control.
      3.   The provisions of this chapter shall be interpreted to be cumulative
of, and to impose limitations in addition to, all other ordinances, laws,
codes, and regulations in existence or which may be passed governing any
subject matter of this chapter. To the greatest extent possible, the provisions
of this chapter shall be construed to be consistent with, and not in conflict
with, the provisions of such other ordinances, laws, codes, and regulations,
and with each other, to the end that all such provisions may be given their
fullest application.
      4.   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this
chapter are minimum standards; therefore, this chapter does not intend or imply
that compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, or unauthorized discharge of pollutants. (Ord. 2009-30, 9-14-2009)
5-3-6: ADMINISTRATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Participating Communities: Participating communities within the County
shall promulgate and enforce this chapter in accordance with the following
participation levels. Participation levels shall be established through the
adoption of intergovernmental agreements.
      1.   Duties of a full participant community include:
         a.   Completion of an intergovernmental agreement for full
participation in the Illicit Discharge Detection and Elimination Program.
         b.   Provide the department with a current storm sewer atlas. An
updated storm sewer atlas shall be provided to the department annually.
         c.   Provide assistance to the department in acquiring access to the
storm drainage system as mutually deemed necessary.
         d.   Provide timely prosecution of persons found to be in violation of
this chapter when necessary per section
5-3-10 of this chapter.
         e.   Provide the department with documentation of any enforcement
action or prosecution from the previous one year for inclusion in the IEPA
annual facility inspection report.
      2.   Duties of a partial participant community include:
         a.   Completion of an intergovernmental agreement for partial
participation in the illicit discharge detection and elimination program.
         b.   Provide the department with a current storm sewer atlas. An
updated storm sewer atlas shall be provided to the department annually.
         c.   Tracing discharges to their source when the department determines
that an illicit discharge has been located within the jurisdiction of the
community.
         d.   Provide timely prosecution of persons found to be in violation of
this chapter when necessary per section
5-3-10 of this chapter.
         e.   Provide the department with documentation of any enforcement
action or prosecution from the previous one year for inclusion in the IEPA
annual facility inspection report.
      3.   Duties of a nonparticipant community include:
         a.   Responsible for developing and implementing an illicit discharge
detection and elimination program to ensure compliance with the IEPA NPDES
regulations within municipal limits on its own behalf.
         b.   If an intergovernmental agreement is not submitted to the county
for partial or full participation, the community will be designated as a
nonparticipant.
   B.   Responsibility For Administration: The department shall administer,
implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted or
duties imposed upon the department may be delegated in writing by the director
to persons or entities acting in the beneficial interest or in the employ of
the department as representatives, contractors, designees and/or assigns.
   C.   Duties Of Director: The duties and functions of the director shall
include:
      1.   Determining policy related to and directing the enforcement of this
chapter, as applicable;
      2.   Supervising the execution of this chapter; and
      3.   Notifying the communities and the IEPA of any amendments to this
chapter.
   D.   Representative Capacity: In all cases when any action is taken by the
director, or his or her duly appointed designee, to enforce the provisions of
this chapter, such action shall be taken in the name of and on behalf of the
village, and neither the director nor his or her designee, in so acting for the
village, shall be rendered personally liable. (Ord. 2009-30, 9-14-2009)
5-3-7: DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS AND EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Illicit Discharge Prohibitions And Exemptions:
      1.   No person shall place, drain, or otherwise discharge, cause, or
allow others under their control to place, drain, or otherwise discharge into
the storm drainage system or MS4 any pollutants or waters containing any
pollutants, other than normal stormwater, unless specifically exempted in
subsection A3 of this section.
      2.   The following discharges into the MS4 or the storm drainage system
shall be prohibited:
         a.   Discharges that are not a direct result of precipitation and/or
snowmelt within the drainage area of the MS4.
         b.   Discharges from an illicit connection.
      3.   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established herein, provided they do not cause an adverse effect on water
quality as determined by the director:
         a.   Discharges caused by governmental public works and stormwater
management units as part of their standard operations in compliance with all
applicable regulations.
         b.   Discharges required by law or authorized by permit, including any
nonstormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste
discharge order issued to the discharger and administered by the USEPA and/or
IEPA.
         c.   Water line and fire hydrant flushing.
         d.   Landscape irrigation water.
         e.   Rising groundwaters.
         f.   Groundwater infiltration.
         g.   Pumped groundwater.
         h.   Discharges from potable water sources.
         i.   Foundation drains.
         j.   Air conditioning condensate.
         k.   Irrigation water (except for wastewater irrigation).
         l.   Springs.
         m.   Water from crawl space pumps.
         n.   Footing drains.
         o.   Storm sewer cleaning water.
         p.   Water from any outdoor residential or charitable or nonprofit
organization car wash.
         q.   Routine external building washdown which does not use detergents.
         r.   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands.
         s.   Dechlorinated pH neutral swimming pool discharges.
         t.   Residual street washwater.
         u.   Discharges or flows from firefighting activities.
         v.   Dechlorinated water reservoir discharges.
         w.   Pavement washwaters where spills or leaks of toxic or hazardous
materials have not occurred (unless all spilled material has been removed).
         x.   Discharges associated with dye testing of water lines, sanitary
sewers, storm sewers, private drains or septic systems; however, this activity
shall not take place until the discharger or tester has provided notification
to the department at least two (2) full business days prior to the test date,
unless an emergency situation does not allow time for such notification.
         y.   Other discharges approved by the department as being
substantially like any of the discharge types enumerated in this subsection A3.
   B.   Illicit Connection Prohibitions:
      1.   The construction, use, maintenance, or continued existence of
illicit connections to the storm drainage system or MS4 is prohibited.
      2.   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
      3.   A person is considered to be in violation of this chapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the storm drainage system or MS4, or
allows such a connection to continue.
      4.   Connections in violation of this chapter must be disconnected and
redirected, if necessary, to an approved wastewater management system or the
sanitary sewer system upon approval of the department and the appropriate
sanitary treatment facility.
      5.   Any drain or conveyance that has not been documented in plans, maps
or equivalent, and which may be connected to the storm sewer system or MS4,
shall be located by the owner or occupant of that property upon receipt of
written notice of violation from the department requiring that such locating be
completed. Such notice shall specify a reasonable time period within which the
location of the drain or conveyance is to be determined, that the drain or
conveyance be identified as a storm sewer, sanitary sewer or other, and that
the outfall location or point of connection to the storm sewer system, MS4,
sanitary sewer system, or other discharge point be identified. Results of these
investigations are to be documented and provided to the department. (Ord. 2009-
30, 9-14-2009)
5-3-8: INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY DISCHARGES; NOTICE OF INTENT:
   A.   Any person operating a facility subject to the IEPA's general permit to
discharge stormwater associated with industrial activity shall submit a copy of
the notice of intent (NOI) to the county stormwater management division
department at the same time the operator submits the original notice of intent
to the IEPA as applicable.
   B.   The copy of the notice of intent may be delivered to the county
stormwater management division either in person or by mailing it to:
   Notice Of Intent To Discharge Stormwater
   DuPage County Stormwater Management Division
   421 North County Farm Road
   Wheaton, IL 60187
   C.   A person commits an offense if the person operates a facility that is
discharging stormwater associated with industrial activity without having
submitted a copy of the notice of intent to do so to the county stormwater
management division. (Ord. 2009-30, 9-14-2009)
5-3-9: COMPLIANCE MONITORING:
   A.   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person
owning, leasing or exercising control over a property, or responsible for
emergency response for a property, has information of any known or suspected
spill of materials which is resulting or may result in illicit discharges or
pollutants discharging into the MS4 or the storm drainage system, said person
shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery, containment, and
cleanup of such spill.
   B.   1. In the event of such a spill, said person shall immediately notify
local emergency dispatch services and act in accordance with Illinois emergency
management agency (IEMA) and IEPA regulations.
      2.   Said person shall notify the department of the spill in person or by
phone, facsimile, or e-mail no later than the next business day. Notifications
in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written notice addressed and mailed
to the department within three (3) business days of the phone notice.
   C.   If the spill emanates from a commercial or industrial establishment,
the owner or operator of such establishment shall also retain an onsite written
record of the spill and the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such
records shall be retained for at least five (5) years. (Ord. 2009-30, 9-14-
2009)
   D.   Proper notice, including containment and cleanup as outlined in
subsections A and B of this section shall exempt the notifying parties from the
penalty referenced in subsection 5-3-10F of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-30, 9-14-
2009; amd. 2012 Code)
   E.   Failure to provide notification of a release as provided in this
section is a violation of this chapter.
   F.   Notwithstanding the language of subsection D of this section, a party
causing a spill that contaminates or harms a storm sewer system shall not be
relieved of liability for damages resulting from such act. (Ord. 2009-30, 9-14-
2009)
5-3-10: VIOLATIONS, ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Enforcement Official: The director shall have primary responsibility
for the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. The village may enter
into agreements with other governmental units for the purpose of implementing
this chapter.
   B.   Violations: A person violates this chapter when that person:
      1.   Performs any act expressly prohibited by any provision of this
chapter; or
      2.   Disobeys, neglects, or fails to carry out or comply with any
provision of this chapter or of any order or notice issued by the director; or
      3.   Allows any condition or act that violates any provision of this
chapter to continue unabated on property owned, leased, managed, or under the
control of such person; or
      4.   Directs, orders, permits, or allows a second person to do any act
expressly prohibited by any provision of this chapter, or to maintain or
continue unabated any condition or act that violates any provision of this
chapter on property owned, leased, managed or under the control of the first
person.
   C.   Notice To Correct Violations; Director Actions:
      1.   The director may issue a notice of violation ordering a person to
take action to achieve compliance with the provisions of this chapter and/or to
cease and desist from any action conducted in violation of this chapter.
Failure to comply with the terms and conditions of a notice of violation and/or
order to cease and desist shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
      2.   The director shall set forth the form and content of any notices
issued under this chapter.
      3.   The director may issue a warning of violation ordering a person to
take action to achieve compliance with the provisions of this chapter. If a
person fails to comply with the terms and conditions of a warning, the director
may, thereafter, issue a notice of violation.
      4.   The director may issue a warning of violation and disburse
educational materials outlining appropriate measures to minimize the discharge
of pollutants.
      5.   If a person fails to comply with an order issued under this
subsection, the director may direct the appropriate legal counsel to commence
any legal proceeding authorized by this chapter, under law or equity, necessary
to enforce any provision of this chapter and/or to protect public health and
safety. Any legal action brought under this chapter shall be in the name of the
village.
   D.   Emergency Cease And Desist Orders:
      1.   The department may obtain an emergency order in the event of the
following:
         a.   Any person has violated or continues to violate any provision of
this chapter or any order issued hereunder, or that the person's past
violations are likely to recur; and
         b.   That the person's violation has caused or contributed to an
actual or threatened discharge to the MS4 or storm drainage system and an
imminent threat of violation is present.
      2.   The department may issue the emergency order to the violator
directing that the violator:
         a.   Immediately cease and desist all such violations;
         b.   Immediately comply with all ordinance requirements; and
         c.   Take such appropriate preventive action as may be needed to
properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including immediately
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
      3.   Any person notified of an emergency order under this subsection
shall immediately comply and stop or eliminate its endangering discharge. In
the event of a discharger's failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the
emergency order, the department may take such steps as deemed necessary to
prevent or minimize harm to the MS4, storm drainage system, or waters of the
United States, and/or endangerment to persons or to the environment, including
immediate termination of a facility's water supply, sewer connection, or other
municipal utility services. The department may allow the person to recommence
its discharge when it has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the department
that the period of endangerment has passed, unless further termination
proceedings are initiated against the discharger under this chapter. A person
that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge presenting imminent
endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement, describing the causes
of the harmful discharge and the measures taken to prevent any future
occurrence, to the department within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the
emergency order. Issuance of an emergency cease and desist order shall not be a
bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the
violator.
   E.   Nuisance Declared; Abatement Provisions:
      1.   Declaration Of Nuisance: Any condition caused or permitted to exist
in violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a threat to
public health and safety and is declared and deemed a public nuisance.
      2.   Abatement Provisions:
         a.   Whenever a nuisance shall be found to exist on any premises, the
director may order such nuisance to be abated upon determination that the
nuisance constitutes a threat to public health or safety.
         b.   In the event of an emergency situation, as determined by the
director, involving an immediate threat to public health and safety, the
director may direct legal counsel to immediately commence any legal or
equitable proceeding necessary to restrain, abate, and/or remedy said
situation. The director may take such action without having to first issue a
notice of violation to the person(s) having control of, or acting as agent for,
such premises where the nuisance is located, or waiting for such person(s) to
abate or remove such nuisance as previously ordered by the director.
         c.   In all other cases, the director may notify, in writing, the
person(s) having control of, or acting as agent for, such premises where the
nuisance is located and directing such person(s) to abate or remove such
nuisance within such time as is stated on the notice. Upon the failure or
refusal of such person(s) to comply with the notice, the director may direct
that appropriate proceedings commence to compel the abatement or removal of
such a nuisance in any manner allowed by law, equity, or this chapter and/or
authorizing the department to act to abate or remove such nuisance. The person
(s) having control of such premises, in addition to the other remedies provided
by this chapter, shall be liable to the department for any costs incurred by
the department to effect such abatement or removal including reasonable
attorney fees and other costs of enforcement, to be recovered by a court of
competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 2009-30, 9-14-2009)
   F.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each offense shall result in a fine in the amount not less
than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
   G.   Remedies Not Exclusive: The remedies listed in this chapter are not
exclusive of any other remedy available under this chapter or under any
applicable federal, state, or local law and do not supersede or limit any and
all other penalties provided by law. The director may seek, at his discretion,
cumulative remedies. (Ord. 2009-30, 9-14-2009; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2020-34,
11-23-2020)
5-3-11: SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS:
   A.   Any person discharging to the MS4 in violation of this chapter may have
his MS4 access terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit
discharge. The department shall notify a violator of the proposed termination
of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the department for a
reconsideration and hearing. A person commits an offense if the person
reinstates MS4 access to premises terminated pursuant to this section without
the prior approval of the department.
   B.   In emergency situations, the department may, without prior notice,
suspend MS4 discharge access to a person when such suspension is necessary to
stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present imminent
and substantial danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of
persons, or to the MS4, storm drainage system, or waters of the United States.
If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued in an emergency,
the department may take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize
damage to the MS4, storm drainage system, or waters of the United States, or to
minimize danger to public health and safety. The department shall obtain an
emergency court order authorizing such termination. (Ord. 2009-30, 9-14-2009)
5-3-12: APPEALS:
   A.   Every request for an appeal shall be made, in writing, to the director.
The director may delegate the hearing of appeals to the committee in the manner
provided in this section.
   B.   Any person aggrieved by any decision, ruling, or determination by the
director, or by any interpretation or application of any provision of this
chapter, may appeal such matter. An appeal of any decision made by the director
shall be made within seven (7) days of the decision contested, except an appeal
involving the assessment charge or calculation of any fine or penalty, in which
cases, an appeal shall be brought before said amount becomes thirty (30) days
past due.
      1.   The appeal procedure shall commence when the person aggrieved
notifies the director, in writing, of the intent to appeal the decision of the
director. Such notice shall contain a short, clear, statement stating the
following:
         a.   Identifying the decision of the director which such person is
appealing and how this chapter has been misread, misinterpreted, or misapplied
in this instance and/or any mistakes of fact the aggrieved believes the
director to have relied upon.
         b.   The name and both a mailing address and a telephone number of the
person making the request, which contact information shall be used for giving
notices related to the appeal. The person making the request shall attach all
written materials on which he or she intends to rely upon in support of the
request.
      2.   The director may, without conducting a hearing, grant relief sought
by the appeal, or may set the matter over for a hearing in the manner provided
in subsection B3 of this section.
      3.   Upon receipt of such notice of appeal, if relief is not granted by
the director in accordance with subsection B2 of this section, the director
shall set a date for a hearing. Such hearing shall take place no fewer than
fourteen (14) days nor more than thirty (30) days from the date that the
director receives such notice of appeal, unless the director and party
requesting the hearing agree to a different schedule. The director shall notify
the person making the appeal of the date of such hearing.
      4.   At the hearing, the person making the appeal may appear in person or
be represented by counsel, or submit his case in writing. The decision
concerning the appeal shall be in writing, shall be communicated to the person
making the appeal, and shall state a finding upon which the decision is based.
   C.   The committee shall have the authority to reverse, modify, or affirm
any decision, ruling, or determination by the director made pursuant to this
chapter upon appeal. The committee shall not act in a manner that would violate
or in any way conflict with any federal or state standard or requirement. The
committee or village board may adopt such additional rules and procedures as it
deems appropriate for performing such matters.
   D.   The decision of the committee may be appealed to the village board in
accord with the village board rules. (Ord. 2009-30, 9-14-2009)
5-3-13: ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL:
If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth
in the notice of violation or, in the event of an appeal, within seven (7) days
of the decision of the director or committee upholding the decision of the
department, then representatives of the department are authorized to take any
and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property.
In no case shall an appeal stay or bar the village from commencing a legal
action seeking emergency relief. (Ord. 2009-30, 9-14-2009)
CHAPTER 4
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS DISCHARGE
SECTION:
5-4-1: Intent
5-4-2: Definitions
5-4-3: Applicability And Interpretation
5-4-4: Administration And Enforcement Officials
5-4-5: Discharge Of Hazardous Materials Prohibited; Exceptions
5-4-6: Nuisance Declared
5-4-7: Access To Premises
5-4-8: Notification Of Discharge
5-4-9: Notice Of Violation
5-4-10: Suspension Of Activities
5-4-11: Abatement Costs
5-4-12: Injunctive Relief; Legal And Equitable Relief
5-4-13: Penalties
5-4-14: Remedies Not Exclusive
5-4-1: INTENT:
It is the intent of this chapter:
   A.   To establish the legal authority of the village to enable the
establishment of policies and procedures to inspect, perform surveillance,
monitor, perform emergency response, containment and remediation; to declare as
a public nuisance, and therefore unlawful and subject to prosecution, any
wilful or accidental acts to cause discharges, deposits, spills, placements,
and/or dumps of hazardous materials either over, under, or onto public and
private properties, or any location where not intended, which endangers or may
endanger the public health, safety and welfare, and the environment in the
village; and
   B.   To establish a means to impose fines and penalties and recoup village
expenses incurred to investigate, inspect, perform surveillance, monitor,
declare a public nuisance, respond, contain and remediate any damages caused by
wilful or accidental acts, to cause deposits, spills, placements, dumps, and
discharges of hazardous materials either over, under, or onto any premises, or
any location where not intended or permitted. (Ord. 2009-31, 9-14-2009)
5-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall mean:
DISCHARGE: Any direct or indirect, wilful or accidental, spill, placement,
deposit, dump, and/or discharge of a hazardous material over, under, or onto a
premises.
HAZARDOUS MATERIAL: Any material, or combination of materials, in any state of
matter including, but not limited to, any substance, waste, or combination
thereof, which, because of its location, quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to the public health, safety,
welfare, and/or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed including, but not limited to, materials or
substances that are caustic, flammable, poisonous, carcinogenic or acidic.
PERSON: Any individual, owner, lessee, association, organization, partnership,
firm, corporation, business, trust, discharger, or other entity recognized by
law and acting as the owner, owner's agent, operator, assign, successor, heir
or in any other capacity that results in any wilful or accidental acts to cause
discharges of hazardous materials.
PREMISES: Any public or private building, facility, lot, parcel of land,
property, or portion of land, whether improved or unimproved, developed or
undeveloped, including public rights of way and public or private easements,
roads, streets, driveways, sidewalks, parking strips and lots.
VILLAGE: The village of Bloomingdale. (Ord. 2009-31, 9-14-2009)
5-4-3: APPLICABILITY AND INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Applicability: This chapter shall apply to any discharges of hazardous
materials as defined in section
5-4-2 of this chapter.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: The provisions set forth herein are considered
minimum provisions. Therefore, this chapter neither intends nor implies that
compliance with these minimum provisions will ensure that there will be no
prosecution against any person causing wilful or accidental contamination,
pollution, or unauthorized discharges of hazardous materials pursuant to
regulations promulgated by other agencies such as USEPA and IEPA.
   C.   Severability:
      1.   The provisions, clauses, sentences and paragraphs of this chapter
are hereby declared to be severable in accordance with the following rules:
         a.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any
provision, clause, sentence, or paragraph of this chapter as invalid, then such
judgment shall not affect any other provision, clause, sentence, or paragraph
of this chapter.
         b.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of this chapter to a particular person or
premises, such judgment shall not affect the application of said provision to
any other person or premises.
      2.   All such unaffected provisions, clauses, sentences, or paragraphs of
this chapter shall remain in full force and effect. (Ord. 2009-31, 9-14-2009)
5-4-4: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
The Department of Public Works, managed by the Director of Public Works and
Village Engineer, shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of
this chapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed pursuant to this chapter may
be delegated in writing by the Director of Public Works and Village Engineer to
persons in the employ of the Village, as representatives, contractors,
designees, assigns and/or entities acting in the beneficial interest of the
Village. (Ord. 2009-31, 9-14-2009; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
5-4-5: DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge hazardous material(s) on any
premises within the Village. This prohibition shall not apply to any person
permitted under a USEPA, IEPA, or NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge
order issued to the person and administered under the authority of the United
States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) or Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency (IEPA); provided, that the person is in full compliance with
all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and any other applicable laws
and regulations; and provided, that written approval or permit has been
granted. (Ord. 2009-31, 9-14-2009)
5-4-6: NUISANCE DECLARED:
In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter is a threat to the public health, safety, welfare and/or the
environment and is hereby declared and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily
abated or restored at the violator's expense, and/or a civil action to abate,
enjoin, or otherwise compel the cessation of such nuisance may be taken. (Ord.
2009-31, 9-14-2009)
5-4-7: ACCESS TO PREMISES:
This section applies to any persons or premises reasonably suspected of
violating the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-31, 9-14-2009; amd. 2012
Code)
   A.   After thirty (30) days' notice in nonemergency cases, and without prior
notice in the case of an emergency, the Director of Public Works or Village
Engineer shall be permitted reasonable access, as often as may be reasonably
necessary, to enter into, onto and upon a premises to cause inspections to
determine compliance and/or conduct emergency response, containment and/or
remediation.
   B.   Except in conditions of emergency, if the Director of Public Works or
Village Engineer has been refused access to any part of a premises, and the
Director of Public Works or Village Engineer is able to demonstrate probable
cause to believe that there may be a violation of any provision of this
chapter, or that there is a need to inspect, monitor, sample the premises to
verify compliance with the provisions of this chapter, or any order issued
hereunder, or to protect the public health, safety and welfare, and the
environment, then the Director of Public Works or Village Engineer may seek
issuance of a search warrant from a court of competent jurisdiction.
   C.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Director of Public Works or Village
Engineer access to a premises reasonably suspected of violating provisions of
this chapter is considered to be a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-31, 9-
14-2009; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
5-4-8: NOTIFICATION OF DISCHARGE:
Notwithstanding other requirements of law, any person responsible for a
discharge of hazardous material(s) from, over, under, or onto any premises
shall immediately contact emergency response agencies of said occurrence via
emergency dispatch services and the Director of Public Works or Village
Engineer, and shall immediately take all necessary steps to ensure the
containment and remediation of such discharge(s) of hazardous material(s).
Failure to provide said notice shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-31, 9-14-2009; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
5-4-9: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
   A.   Whenever the Director of Public Works or Village Engineer discovers,
finds, determines or reasonably suspects that a person has violated a provision
of this chapter, then the Director of Public Works or Village Engineer may, by
written notice of violation to the responsible person or persons and by posting
a copy of said notice of violation on the subject premises, order compliance.
(Ord. 2009-31, 9-14-2009; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
   B.   Such notice of violation ordering compliance may require without
limitation:
      1.   The suspension of activities causing the discharge(s); and
      2.   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting; and
      3.   The elimination of said discharge(s); and
      4.   That said discharge(s) shall cease and desist; and
      5.   The abatement or remediation of contamination or hazards and the
restoration of any affected premises; and
      6.   The payment of fines, fees, and costs of abatement and remediation;
and
      7.   Other reasonable actions, orders, provisions or requirements
intended to protect the public health, safety, welfare, and the environment.
(Ord. 2009-31, 9-14-2009)
   C.   Except in the case of emergency permitting immediate access, if the
notice of violation orders monitoring, sampling, abatement, containment
remediation and/or restoration of the affected premises, then said notice of
violation shall set forth a deadline, not less than fifteen (15) calendar days
after the date of the notice, when such monitoring sampling, abatement,
remediation, and/or restoration shall be completed. Said notice shall further
advise that, should the violator fail to restrain or cease actions causing the
violation, or fail to monitor, sample, abate, remediate or restore the premises
within the established deadline, then the required order conditions may be
completed by the Director of Public Works or Village Engineer, and the expenses
thereof shall be charged to the person or persons violating this chapter. (Ord.
2009-31, 9-14-2009; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
   D.   As necessary and required, the Village may institute appropriate action
or proceedings in the Circuit Court of DuPage County, or other applicable
court, to cause the violator to restrain, monitor, sample, abate, restore,
remediate and/or reimburse the Village for such violation. (Ord. 2009-31, 9-14-
2009)
5-4-10: SUSPENSION OF ACTIVITIES:
   A.   Emergency Situations:
      1.   In cases of imminent and substantial emergency, as declared by the
Director of Public Works or Village Engineer, or other sworn Municipal
official, the Village may, without prior notice, suspend or cause the
suspension of activities by a person causing a discharge when such suspension
is necessary to stop, prevent or minimize an actual or threatened discharge
which presents, or may present, an imminent and substantial danger to the
public health, safety and welfare, and/or the environment. (Ord. 2009-31, 9-14-
2009; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
      2.   If the person(s) notified of said declaration of any emergency and
of said violation of this chapter fails to comply with the suspension order
issued in an emergency, then the Village may take such steps as deemed
necessary to protect the public health, safety, welfare and/or the environment.
   B.   Nonemergency Situations:
      1.   Any person suspected, observed, discovered or detected of a
discharge in violation of this chapter may have said activity suspended or
terminated if doing so is deemed necessary to protect the public health,
safety, welfare and/or the environment. (Ord. 2009-31, 9-14-2009)
      2.   The Director of Public Works or Village Engineer will serve said
person, in writing, with a notice of violation indicating the suspected,
observed, discovered or detected discharge of hazardous material(s) in
violation of this chapter and describing the necessary action(s) to achieve
compliance. The person receiving a notice of violation shall suspend activities
outlined in said notice until compliance is achieved.
      3.   Any person shall be considered violating the provisions of this
chapter and subject to prosecution if said person resumes a discharge
previously suspended or terminated pursuant to this section without the prior
approval of the Director of Public Works or Village Engineer. (Ord. 2009-31, 9-
14-2009; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
5-4-11: ABATEMENT COSTS:
   A.   Any person found violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the Village by reason of such violation for any direct and
indirect costs including, but not limited to, administrative, legal and court
costs, costs incurred to cause restraint, monitoring, sampling, abatement,
restoration, containment, remediation, and/or other reasonable actions to
protect the public health, safety, welfare and/or the environment. (Ord. 2009-
31, 9-14-2009)
   B.   After the Director of Public Works or Village Engineer compiles the
total costs, the person(s) responsible for said violation will be notified of
and invoiced for said total costs incurred by the Village. Said costs shall
become the liability of the person(s) found responsible for the violation of
this chapter. (Ord. 2009-31, 9-14-2009; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-
2017)
   C.   If the amount due is not paid within thirty (30) calendar days pursuant
to the terms and conditions of the invoice submitted by the Village, then the
charges shall become a lawful encumbrance against the person and/or premises
and shall constitute a lien against the person and/or the premises for the full
amount. (Ord. 2009-31, 9-14-2009)
   D.   At his sole discretion, the Director of Public Works or Village
Engineer may permit the responsible person(s) to satisfy the liability, in
equal installments, for a duration determined by the Director of Public Works
or Village Engineer, but in no case to exceed ten (10) years. The liability
shall accrue interest at an annual percentage rate to be determined by the
Director of Public Works or Village Engineer, upon advice of the Finance
Director-Treasurer, but in no case less than a five percent (5%) annual
percentage rate. Said interest shall be assessed on the balance beginning on
the thirtieth day following the date of first invoice. (Ord. 2009-31, 9-14-
2009; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
5-4-12: INJUNCTIVE RELIEF; LEGAL AND EQUITABLE RELIEF:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to
comply with any provision of this chapter. A person who has violated or
continues to violate the provisions of this chapter is hereby determined to be
subjecting, or has subjected, imminent or substantial danger to the public
health, safety, welfare and/or the environment.
   B.   In such cases, the Village shall have authority to cause to be
instituted a civil action or petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction
restraining the person from activities which would create further violations
and/or compel the person to perform abatement, remediation or restoration of
the violation. (Ord. 2009-31, 9-14-2009)
   C.   In the enforcement of this chapter, the Director of Public Works or
Village Engineer may have authority to institute or cause to be instituted, in
the name of the Village, any and all required actions, legal and equitable,
including appeals. (Ord. 2009-31, 9-14-2009; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-
13-2017)
5-4-13: PENALTIES:
Any person that has violated or continues to violate this chapter shall be
subject to civil or criminal prosecution and imprisonment to the fullest extent
permitted by the law, and shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each offense shall result in a fine in the amount not less
than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). The Village may recover all attorney
fees, court costs, administrative fees and expenses, and other associated
expenses pursuant to provisions outlined in this chapter. (Ord. 2009-31, 9-14-
2009; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2020-34, 11-23-2020)
5-4-14: REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable Federal, State or local law, and it is within
the discretion of the Village to seek cumulative remedies. (Ord. 2009-31, 9-14-
2009)
CHAPTER 5
NOISE CONTROL
SECTION:
5-5-1: Noise Prohibited Generally
5-5-2: Definitions
5-5-3: Specific Acts Prohibited
5-5-4: Noncommercial Sound Truck Registration
5-5-5: Abatement Of Nuisance
5-5-6: Penalty
5-5-1: NOISE PROHIBITED GENERALLY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to make or continue, or cause to be made or
continued, any loud, unnecessary, or unusual noise or any noise which either
annoys, disturbs, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, or safety of
others within the limits of the village. See also subsection
11-9-7A of this code. (Ord. 72-29, 7-12-1972; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2022-26, 6-
13-2022)
5-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this Chapter:
 
                            Any machine or device for the amplification of the
                            human voice, music or other sound. The term "sound
                            amplifying equipment" shall not be construed as
                            including standard automobile radios when used and
SOUND AMPLIFYING EQUIPMENT: heard only by occupants of the vehicle in which
                            installed or warning devices on authorized
                            emergency vehicles or horns or other warning
                            devices on other vehicles used only for traffic
                            safety purposes.
                            Any vehicle, self-propelled or otherwise, having
SOUND TRUCK:                mounted thereon or attached thereto any sound
                            amplifying equipment. (Ord. 2022-26, 6-13-2022)
 
5-5-3: SPECIFIC ACTS PROHIBITED:
Any person, firm, or corporation who shall be convicted of violating any
provision of this chapter shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each offense shall result in a fine in the amount not less
than one hundred fifty The following acts, among others, are declared to be
loud, disturbing, and unnecessary noises in violation of this chapter, but said
enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
   A.   Vehicle Noises:
      1.   The sounding of any horn or signaling device of any automobile,
motorcycle or other vehicle on any street or public place of the village,
except as a danger warning; the creation by means of any such signaling device
of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of any such device
unnecessarily or for an unreasonable period of time.
      2.   The use of any signaling device, except one operated by hand or
electricity; the use of any horn, whistle, or other device operated by engine
exhaust; and the use of any such signaling device when traffic for any reason
is held up.
      3.   The use of any automobile, motorcycle, or vehicle so out of repair,
so loaded, or in such manner as to create loud and unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling, or other such noise.
      4.   Every motor vehicle driven or operated upon a street or highway of
this Village shall at all times be equipped with an adequate muffler or exhaust
system in constant operation and properly maintained to prevent any excessive
or unusual noise. No such muffler or exhaust system shall be equipped with a
cutout, bypass, or similar device. No person shall modify the exhaust system of
a motor vehicle in a manner which will amplify or increase the noise of such
vehicle above that emitted by the muffler originally installed on the vehicle.
   B.   Exhaust: The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam
engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motorboat, or other motor
vehicle except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent
loud or explosive noises therefrom.
   C.   Steam Whistle: The blowing of any locomotive steam whistle or steam
whistle attached to any stationary boiler, except to give notice of the time to
begin or stop work or as a warning of fire or danger, or upon request of proper
village authorities.
   D.   Transportation Of Metal Rails, Pillars And Columns: The transportation
of rails, pillars or columns of iron, steel or other material over and along
streets and other public places upon carts, drays, cars, trucks or in any other
manner so loaded as to cause loud noises or as to disturb the peace and quiet
of such streets or other public places.
   E.   Radios And Phonographs: The using or operating, or the permitting to be
played, used or operated, of any radio, receiving set, musical instrument,
phonograph, or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of
sound in such manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the
neighboring inhabitants or at any time with louder volume than is necessary for
convenient hearing for the person or persons who are in the room, vehicle, or
chamber in which the machine or device is operated and who are voluntary
listeners thereto. The operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph,
machine or device between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of
fifty feet (50') from the building, structure, or vehicle in which it is
located shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this subsection.
   F.   Drums: The use of any drum or other instrument or device for the
purpose of attracting attention to any performance, show, or sale by creation
of noise.
   G.   Loudspeakers And Amplifiers: Playing, using or operating, or permitting
to be played, used, or operated, any radio, receiving set, musical instrument,
phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier, or other machine or device for the
producing or reproducing of sound which is cast upon the public street for the
use and purposes of commercial advertising or for attracting the attention of
the public to any building or structure.
   H.   Yelling And Shouting: Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling, or singing
on the public streets, particularly between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00)
P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., or at any time or place so as to annoy or
destroy the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any office or in any
dwelling, hotel, or other type of residence or of any persons in the vicinity.
   I.   Hawkers And Peddlers: The shouting and crying of peddlers, hawkers and
vendors which disturb the peace and quiet of the neighborhood.
   J.   Animals: The keeping of any animal which, by causing frequent or long
continued noise, shall disturb the comfort or repose of any persons in the
vicinity.
   K.   Loading, Unloading, Opening Boxes: The creating of a loud and excessive
noise in connection with loading or unloading any vehicle or the opening and
destruction of bales, boxes, crates and containers.
   L.   Construction Or Repair Of Buildings: The erection (including
excavation), demolition, alteration or repair of any building other than
between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M.,
except in case of urgent necessity in the interest of public health and safety,
and then only with a permit from the building and zoning official, which permit
may be granted for a period not to exceed three (3) days or less while the
emergency continues, and which permit may be renewed for a period of three (3)
days or less while the emergency continues.
   M.   Pile Drivers And Hammers: The operation of any pile driver, steam
shovel, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or electric hoist or other appliance,
the use of which is attended by loud or unusual noise, between the hours of six
o'clock (6:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
   N.   Blowers: The operation of any noise creating blower or power fan or any
internal combustion engine, the operation of which causes noise due to the
explosion of operating gases or fluids, unless the noise from such blower or
fan is muffled and such engine is equipped with a muffler device sufficient to
deaden such noise.
   O.   Near Schools, Courts, Places Of Worship And Hospitals And Care Centers:
The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school,
institution of learning, place of worship, or court of law while the same is in
use, or adjacent to any hospital or care center, which unreasonably interferes
with the workings of such institution, or which disturbs or unduly annoys
patients in the hospital or care center, provided conspicuous signs are
displayed in such streets indicating that the same is a school, hospital or
care center, or court of law street.
   P.   Sound Trucks:
      1.   No person shall use, or cause to be used, a sound truck with its
sound amplifying equipment in operation for noncommercial purposes in the
village before filing a registration statement with the village clerk in
accordance with section
5-5-4 of this Chapter.
      2.   No person shall operate or cause to be operated in the village any
sound truck for commercial sound advertising purposes with sound amplifying
equipment in operation. (Ord. 72-29, 7-12-1972; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2022-26,
6-13-2022)
5-5-4: NONCOMMERCIAL SOUND TRUCK REGISTRATION:
   A.   Registration Statement:
      1.   A written registration statement shall be filed in duplicate with
the village clerk and shall state the following:
         a.   Name and home address of the applicant.
         b.   Address of place of business of applicant.
         c.   License number and motor number of the sound truck to be used by
the applicant.
         d.   Name and address of the person who owns the truck.
         e.   Name and address of the person having direct charge of the sound
truck.
         f.   Names and addresses of all persons who will use or operate the
sound truck.
         g.   The purpose for which the sound truck will be used.
         h.   A general statement as to the section or sections of the village
in which the sound truck will be used.
         i.   The proposed hours of operation of the sound truck.
         j.   The number of days of proposed operation of the sound truck.
         k.   A general description of the sound amplifying equipment which is
to be used.
         l.   The maximum sound producing power of the sound amplifying
equipment to be used in or on the sound truck.
            (1)   The wattage to be used.
            (2)   The volume in decibels of the sound which will be produced.
            (3)   The approximate maximum distance for which sound will be
thrown from the sound truck.
      2.   The village clerk shall return to each applicant for registration
hereunder one copy of said registration statement, duly certified by the
village clerk, as a correct copy of said application. Said certified copy of
the application shall be in the possession of any person operating the sound
truck at all times while the sound truck is in operation, and said copy shall
be promptly displayed to any police officer of the village upon request.
   B.   Regulations: Noncommercial use of sound trucks in the village with
sound amplifying equipment in operation shall be subject to the following
regulations:
      1.   The only sounds permitted shall be music or human speech.
      2.   Operations shall be permitted only between the hours of eleven
thirty o'clock (11:30) A.M. and one thirty o'clock (1:30) P.M. and between the
hours of four thirty o'clock (4:30) P.M. and six thirty o'clock (6:30) P.M.
Provided, however, that no operations shall be authorized or allowed on Sundays
and legal holidays.
      3.   Sound amplifying equipment shall not be operated unless the sound
truck upon which equipment is mounted is operated at a speed of at least ten
(10) miles per hour, except when said truck is stopped or impeded by traffic.
When a sound truck is required by traffic conditions to stop or travel at a
speed of less than ten (10) miles per hour, the sound amplifying equipment
shall not be operated for longer than one minute at such stop or during such
travel less than ten (10) miles per hour.
      4.   Sound shall not be issued within one hundred (100) yards of
hospitals and care centers, schools, places of worship, or courthouses.
      5.   Sound amplifying equipment shall not be operated on streets in the
downtown congested traffic areas, nor upon state or county highways within the
village.
      6.   The human speech and music amplified shall not be profane, lewd,
indecent, or slanderous.
      7.   The volume of sound shall be controlled so that it will not be
audible for a distance in excess of one hundred feet (100') from the sound
truck and so that said volume is not unreasonably loud, raucous, jarring,
disturbing, or a nuisance to persons within the area of audibility.
      8.   No sound amplifying equipment shall be operated in excess of fifteen
(15) watts of power in the last stage of amplification. (Ord. 2022-26, 6-13-
2022)
5-5-5: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE:
Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this Chapter, the police department is
authorized to abate any nuisance or hazard created by the operation of sound
amplifying equipment. (Ord. 2022-26, 6-13-2022)
5-5-6: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation who shall be convicted of violating any
provision of this chapter shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each offense shall result in a fine in the amount not less
than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). (Ord. 72-29, 7-12-1972; amd. 2012
Code; Ord. 2020-34, 11-23-2020; Ord. 2022-26, 6-13-2022)
CHAPTER 5
NOISE CONTROL
ARTICLE A. SOUND TRUCKS
SECTION:
5-5A-1: Definitions
5-5A-2: Noncommercial Sound Trucks
5-5A-3: Commercial Advertising Prohibited
5-5A-4: Abatement Of Nuisance
5-5A-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them in this section:
SOUND AMPLIFYING EQUIPMENT: Any machine or device for the amplification of the
human voice, music or other sound. The term "sound amplifying equipment" shall
not be construed as including standard automobile radios when used and heard
only by occupants of the vehicle in which installed or warning devices on
authorized emergency vehicles or horns or other warning devices on other
vehicles used only for traffic safety purposes.
SOUND TRUCK: Any vehicle, self-propelled or otherwise, having mounted thereon
or attached thereto any sound amplifying equipment. (Ord. 72-29, 7-12-1972)
5-5A-2: NONCOMMERCIAL SOUND TRUCKS:
   A.   Registration Statement:
      1.   No person shall use, or cause to be used, a sound truck with its
sound amplifying equipment in operation for noncommercial purposes in the
village before filing a registration statement with the village clerk in
writing. This registration statement shall be filed in duplicate and shall
state the following:
         a.   Name and home address of the applicant.
         b.   Address of place of business of applicant.
         c.   License number and motor number of the sound truck to be used by
the applicant.
         d.   Name and address of the person who owns the truck.
         e.   Name and address of the person having direct charge of the sound
truck.
         f.   Names and addresses of all persons who will use or operate the
sound truck.
         g.   The purpose for which the sound truck will be used.
         h.   A general statement as to the section or sections of the village
in which the sound truck will be used.
         i.   The proposed hours of operation of the sound truck.
         j.   The number of days of proposed operation of the sound truck.
         k.   A general description of the sound amplifying equipment which is
to be used.
         l.   The maximum sound producing power of the sound amplifying
equipment to be used in or on the sound truck.
            (1)   The wattage to be used.
            (2)   The volume in decibels of the sound which will be produced.
            (3)   The approximate maximum distance for which sound will be
thrown from the sound truck.
      2.   The village clerk shall return to each applicant for registration
hereunder one copy of said registration statement, duly certified by the
village clerk, as a correct copy of said application. Said certified copy of
the application shall be in the possession of any person operating the sound
truck at all times while the sound truck is in operation, and said copy shall
be promptly displayed to any police officer of the village upon request.
   B.   Regulations: Noncommercial use of sound trucks in the village with
sound amplifying equipment in operation shall be subject to the following
regulations:
      1.   The only sounds permitted shall be music or human speech.
      2.   Operations shall be permitted only between the hours of eleven
thirty o'clock (11:30) A.M. and one thirty o'clock (1:30) P.M. and between the
hours of four thirty o'clock (4:30) P.M. and six thirty o'clock (6:30) P.M.
Provided, however, that no operations shall be authorized or allowed on Sundays
and legal holidays.
      3.   Sound amplifying equipment shall not be operated unless the sound
truck upon which equipment is mounted is operated at a speed of at least ten
(10) miles per hour, except when said truck is stopped or impeded by traffic.
When a sound truck is required by traffic conditions to stop or travel at a
speed of less than ten (10) miles per hour, the sound amplifying equipment
shall not be operated for longer than one minute at such stop or during such
travel less than ten (10) miles per hour. (Ord. 72-29, 7-12-1972)
      4.   Sound shall not be issued within one hundred (100) yards of
hospitals and care centers, schools, places of worship, or courthouses. (Ord.
72-29, 7-12-1972; amd. 2012 Code)
      5.   Sound amplifying equipment shall not be operated on streets in the
downtown congested traffic areas, nor upon state or county highways within the
village.
      6.   The human speech and music amplified shall not be profane, lewd,
indecent, or slanderous.
      7.   The volume of sound shall be controlled so that it will not be
audible for a distance in excess of one hundred feet (100') from the sound
truck and so that said volume is not unreasonably loud, raucous, jarring,
disturbing, or a nuisance to persons within the area of audibility.
      8.   No sound amplifying equipment shall be operated in excess of fifteen
(15) watts of power in the last stage of amplification. (Ord. 72-29, 7-12-1972)
5-5A-3: COMMERCIAL ADVERTISING PROHIBITED:
No person shall operate or cause to be operated in the village any sound truck
for commercial sound advertising purposes with sound amplifying equipment in
operation. (Ord. 72-29, 7-12-1972)
5-5A-4: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE:
Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this article, the police department is
authorized to abate any nuisance or hazard created by the operation of sound
amplifying equipment. (Ord. 72-29, 7-12-1972)
TITLE 6
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-1-1: Membership
6-1-2: Appointments, Promotions And Removals
6-1-3: Chief Of Police
6-1-3-1: Director Of Public Safety
6-1-4: Powers And Duties Of Police Officers
6-1-5: Conduct Of Members
6-1-6: Serve As Witnesses; Fees
6-1-7: Salaries
6-1-8: Rules And Regulations
6-1-9: Detectives
6-1-10: Police Pension Fund And Board
6-1-11: Hiring Standards For Part Time Police Officers
6-1-12: Reimbursement For Police Training
6-1-13: Booking Fee
6-1-1: MEMBERSHIP:
The Police Department of the Village shall consist of the following sworn
members: one Chief of Police, eleven (11) Sergeants, and thirty seven (37)
police officers. (Ord. 2006-18, 4-24-2006)
6-1-2: APPOINTMENTS, PROMOTIONS AND REMOVALS:
Appointments to, promotions to nonexempt ranks within, and removal and
discharge from the Police Department, relating to ranks and positions other
than the Office of Chief of Police, shall be made by the Board of Fire and
Police Commissioners, when and as provided by law 1 . (Ord. 2006-18, 4-24-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  2-2-9 of this Code.
6-1-3: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   Office Created; Appointment: There is hereby created the Office of
Chief of Police. The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Village
President, with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
   B.   Administration And Supervision Of Department: The Chief of Police shall
be the Administrative Head of the Police Department and shall have supervision
over all members thereof.
   C.   Duties: The Chief of Police shall:
      1.   Be the keeper of the Police Department holding facility and shall
have custody of all persons incarcerated therein.
      2.   Keep such records and make such reports concerning the activities of
the Police Department as may be required by statute or ordinance, or by the
Board of Trustees.
      3.   Be responsible for the performance by the Police Department of all
its functions, and all persons who are members of the Police Department shall
serve subject to the orders and direction of the Chief of Police.
      4.   Have the custody of all lost, abandoned, or stolen property
recovered in the Village. (Ord. 2006-18, 4-24-2006)
6-1-3-1: DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY:
   A.   Office Created; Appointment: There is hereby created the Office of the
Director of Public Safety. The Director of Public Safety shall be appointed by
the Village President, with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees.
   B.   Administration And Supervision Of Police Department: The Director of
Public Safety shall be a civilian administrative position which serves as the
Administrative Head of the Police Department and shall have supervision over
all members thereof.
   C.   Duties: The duties of the Director of Public Safety include, but are
not limited to:
      1.   Be qualified through training and experience to advise and oversee
the Police Department. The Director of Public Safety shall not have any powers
of arrest and shall not be required to carry a firearm.
      2.   Be responsible for the oversight of all Police Department functions,
including all police officers appointed by the Board of Fire and Police
Commissioners and any civil employees hired by the Village working within the
Police Department. The Director of Public Safety shall monitor the efficient
operation of the Police Department and shall provide advice with respect to the
performance by the Police Department of all of its functions.
      3.   Shall make reports concerning the activities of his department as
may be required by statute or by the Mayor and Board of Trustees.
      4.   Be responsible for the performance by the Police Department of all
its functions, and all persons who are members of the Police Department shall
serve subject to the orders and direction of the Director of Public Safety.
      5.   Be responsible for the oversight of all Police Department functions,
being the final department authority on all matters of policy, discipline,
promotion, hiring, and staff coordination.
      6.   Monitors the planning, staffing, directing, coordinating and
controlling of all department functions and activities, ensuring their
efficiency.
      7.   Reviews and analyzes all Police Department services and activities
including maintenance of law and order, protection of life and property,
regulation of traffic, apprehension, arrest and detention of law violators,
general orders, and maintenance of police records. Recommends policies and
procedures based upon review.
      8.   Develops and monitors Police Department goals, objectives, policies
and priorities for each assigned service area; recommends, within Village
policy, appropriate service and staffing levels and the allocation of
resources.
      9.   Oversees the risk management programs established by the Village.
Coordinates with supervisors to implement the risk management program/policies
per Village guidelines.
      10.   Represents the Police Department to other Village departments,
elected officials and outside agencies; explains, justifies, and defends Police
Department programs, policies and activities; negotiates and resolves
sensitive, significant and/or controversial issues.
      11.   Participates in budget development for the Police Department;
directs the forecast of funds needed for staffing, equipment, materials and
supplies; directs the monitoring of and approves expenditures; directs the
preparation of and implements budgetary adjustments as necessary.
      12.   Coordinates Police Department activities with those of other
departments, outside agencies and organizations; provides staff assistance to
the Village Administrator and Board of Trustees; prepares and presents staff
reports and other necessary correspondence.
      13.   Acts as the Emergency Management Coordinator for the Village (per
Village ordinance). (Ord. 2017-28, 6-26-2017)
6-1-4: POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS:
   A.   The Chief of Police and all sworn members of the Police Department of
the Village shall preserve the peace, order, and safety, and to this end they
shall execute and enforce all criminal codes, traffic codes, and all ordinances
and police regulations; they shall take notice of all nuisances, and at all
times render all necessary assistance to Village departments in the abatement
thereof; and they shall take notice of the impediments, obstructions, and
defects in the walks, streets, avenues, alleys, and public places of the
Village, and shall remove the same or cause immediate notice to be given to the
proper person whose duty it may be to attend to the same, according to the
ordinances of the Village.
   B.   It shall be the duty of the sworn members of the Police Department to
aid the Fire Protection District in maintaining order on the streets and
grounds in the immediate vicinity of a fire or other emergency, so that members
of the fire protection district shall not be hindered or obstructed in the
performance of their duties.
   C.   The sworn members of the police department of the village shall have
power and authority, and it shall be their duty, in the village and outside the
same, when necessary and lawful, to serve and execute warrants and other
processes for the apprehension and commitment of persons charged for the
violation of any village ordinances, or any crime, misdemeanor, or offense
against the laws of the village, state, or federal government, or to be held
for examination or trial, or to be taken in execution for the commission of any
crime, misdemeanor, or violation of any law or ordinance of the village; and
they shall have the power and authority, and it shall be their duty, to serve
and execute any civil processes issued on behalf of the village by any court of
proper jurisdiction; and while serving or executing, or assisting in the
service or execution, of any such warrant or process, and carrying out the
duties of a police officer, they shall be vested with and have all the powers
and authority conferred upon constables at common law and by the laws of the
state.
   D.   Sworn members of the police department shall have the power, and it
shall be their duty, to arrest, on view, all persons in the village found in
the act of violating any law or ordinance, or aiding or abetting in such
violations, and to bring such persons so arrested before a court of proper
jurisdiction, to be dealt with according to law.
   E.   Sworn members of the police department shall have the legal authority
to carry and use firearms and other weapons consistent with Illinois statute as
directed by the chief of police. Designated nonsworn members of the police
department shall have the legal authority to carry and use certain weaponry
(nonfirearms) as authorized by the chief of police and in conformance with
state law. (Ord. 2006-18, 4-24-2006)
6-1-5: CONDUCT OF MEMBERS:
It shall be the duty of every sworn member of the police department to conduct
himself or herself in a proper and law abiding manner at all times, and to
avoid the use of unnecessary force. Each member of the police department shall
obey the orders and directions of his superior. (Ord. 2006-18, 4-24-2006)
6-1-6: SERVE AS WITNESSES; FEES:
Every member of the police department shall appear as a witness whenever it is
necessary for the prosecution of a violation of a village ordinance or a state
or federal law. No such member shall retain any witness fee for service as a
witness in any action or suit to which the village is a party, and any fees
paid for such services shall be turned over to the chief of police, who shall
deposit the same with the village finance director-treasurer. (Ord. 2006-18, 4-
24-2006; amd. 2012 Code)
6-1-7: SALARIES:
The salaries of the sworn members of the police department and such persons who
shall be employed by the village from time to time for duty within the police
department shall be as set forth in a collective bargaining agreement (if
applicable) or as approved by the board of trustees in the manner provided by
law. (Ord. 2006-18, 4-24-2006)
6-1-8: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Department Rules And Regulations: The chief of police may make or
prescribe such rules and regulations as the chief shall deem advisable. Such
rules, when approved by the board of trustees, shall be binding on the members
of the police department. Such rules and regulations may cover, besides the
conduct of members, uniforms and equipment to be worn or carried, hours of
service, and all other similar matters necessary or desirable for the better
efficiency and performance of the police department. (Ord. 2006-18, 4-24-2006)
   B.   Adoption Of Board Of Fire And Police Commissioners' Rules And
Regulations: The amendments to the rules and regulations of the board of fire
and police commissioners of the village, attached to ordinance 2003-15, are
incorporated herein by reference. (Ord. 2006-18, 4-24-2006; amd. 2012 Code)
6-1-9: DETECTIVES:
The chief of police is hereby authorized to designate as a "detective" any
sworn member of the police department who has successfully completed the
designated probationary period as a police officer of the department. The
status of detective shall not be construed as an established rank within the
department, and the chief is authorized to eliminate such designation and to
reassign members when, in his discretion, the best interests of the village and
law enforcement so require. (Ord. 2006-18, 4-24-2006)
6-1-10: POLICE PENSION FUND AND BOARD:
   A.   Rules And Definitions:
      1.   Words as used in this section that import the masculine gender are
also intended to import the feminine gender, and words used in the singular
number are also intended to import the plural number (or vice versa), unless
such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intention of the
context. (Ord. 94-03, 1-24-1994)
      2.   The following words or phrases, as used in this section, shall have
the meanings set forth in this subsection A2:
ACT: That act contained in article 3 of the Illinois pension code entitled
"Police Pension Fund - Municipalities 500,000 And Under", 40 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/3-101 et seq., and as the same is amended from time to time
hereafter.
BENEFICIARY: A person entitled to receive benefits from the fund as set forth
in the act.
CLERK: The clerk of the police pension board.
FINANCE DIRECTOR-TREASURER: The finance director- treasurer of the village.
FUND: The police pension fund of the village of Bloomingdale, DuPage County,
Illinois, established hereunder.
POLICE DEPARTMENT: The police department of the village.
POLICE OFFICER: a. Any person who, on the date the act became applicable to the
village, was employed as a police officer by the village, regardless of his age
or physical condition and who, within three (3) months after the effective date
hereof, makes written application to the police pension board, in such form as
that board shall prescribe, to come under the provisions of the act.
         b.   Any person who hereafter is:
            (1)   Appointed to the police force of the village and who is sworn
and commissioned to perform police duties; and
            (2)   Found upon examination by a physician or physicians licensed
by the state of Illinois to practice medicine in all of its branches, and
selected by the police pension board, to be physically and mentally fit to
perform the duties of a police officer; and
            (3)   One who, within three (3) months after being appointed or
reappointed, when such appointment or reappointment occurs after the effective
date hereof, makes written application to the police pension board, in such
form as that board shall prescribe, to come under the provisions of the act.
         c.   Persons excluded from the definition of police officer shall be:
            (1)   Part time police officers; special police; night watchmen;
temporary employees; traffic guards; auxiliary police officers appointed to
direct traffic at or near schools or public functions or to aid in civilian
defense; municipal parking lot attendants; clerks, or other civilian employees
of the police department who perform clerical duties exclusively.
            (2)   A police officer who fails to pay salary payments as required
by the act.
            (3)   Any person who has elected, under section 3-109.1 of the act,
to participate in the Illinois municipal retirement fund rather than a fund
established by this section.
POLICE PENSION BOARD: The board of trustees of the fund as established
hereunder.
RESERVES: The reserves required to be established and maintained by section 3-
127 of the act.
SALARY: The annual salary, including longevity, attached to the rank held by
the police officer as established by the village appropriation ordinance. The
term "salary" does not include overtime pay, holiday pay, bonus pay, merit pay,
or any other cash benefit over and above the salary established by the village
appropriation ordinance.
VILLAGE: The village of Bloomingdale, DuPage County, Illinois.
VILLAGE BOARD: The president and board of trustees of the village. (Ord. 94-03,
1-24-1994; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Fund Established; Purpose: There is hereby established a police pension
fund under and in accordance with the provisions of the act to be known as the
"Police Pension Fund Of The Village Of Bloomingdale, DuPage County, Illinois"
(the fund). The purpose of the fund is to provide pensions for police officers
and benefits for their beneficiaries under the terms and regulations herein set
forth and in accordance with the provisions of the act.
   C.   Tax Levied: The village board shall annually hereafter levy a tax upon
all taxable property of the village at the rate on the dollar of all such
taxable property which will produce an amount which, when added to the
deductions from the salaries of police officers and receipts available from all
other sources as hereinafter referred to, will equal a sufficient sum to meet
the annual requirements of the fund. Such tax shall be levied and collected in
a like manner with the general taxes of the village and shall be in addition to
all other taxes now or hereafter authorized to be levied upon all property
within the village.
   D.   Monies Constituting Fund: The following monies shall constitute the
fund:
      1.   All monies derived from taxes levied hereunder.
      2.   Contributions by police officers under section 3-125.1 of the act.
      3.   All donations, gifts or other transfers received by the police
pension board or the village board for or on behalf of the fund. (Ord. 94-03,
1-24-1994)
   E.   Finance Director-Treasurer Duties:
      1.   The finance director-treasurer shall have custody of all monies
constituting the fund for and on behalf of the police pension board.
      2.   The finance director-treasurer shall disburse monies from the fund
only upon the order to do so directed to him and signed by the president and
secretary of the police pension board. The disbursement of monies from the fund
by the finance director-treasurer shall be as so ordered by the police pension
board.
      3.   The finance director-treasurer shall, from time to time, advise the
police pension board of the balance of funds on hand and of his estimate of
current cash needs of the fund. Any monies on hand in excess of such current
needs shall be invested by the finance director-treasurer when ordered to do so
by the police pension board. Investments may be made only in those securities
authorized by section 3-135 of the act. Interest earned on all such investments
shall be credited to the fund.
      4.   On the second Tuesday in May annually, the finance director-
treasurer shall file with the police pension board and with the village clerk
(to be transmitted by such clerk to the village board) a statement, under oath,
of all monies of the fund received and paid out by him during the preceding
fiscal year. Such statement shall also show the amount of fund monies then on
hand and the amount owing to the fund.
      5.   Upon the written demand, signed by the president and secretary of
the police pension board, the finance director- treasurer shall furnish a
written statement to the police pension board setting forth the method of
collecting and handling monies of the fund.
      6.   The finance director-treasurer shall keep accurate books and records
of the monies of the fund, and such books and records shall be made available
by him for examination by the police pension board. (Ord. 94-03, 1-24-1994;
amd. 2012 Code)
   F.   Board Of Trustees Of Fund:
      1.   Established; Membership; Compensation: There is hereby established a
board of trustees of the police pension fund of the village (the "board"). Such
board shall be composed of five (5) members. No member of the board shall
receive or have a right to receive any payment of money or other compensation
from the fund as salary for services performed as such member.
      2.   Appointive Members; Terms: Two (2) members of the board shall be
appointed by the village president as follows:
         a.   One member shall be appointed as soon after the effective date
hereof as is possible. His term of office shall be from the date of his
appointment until the second Tuesday of May 1974, or until his successor is
appointed and shall have qualified.
         b.   One member shall be appointed as soon after the effective date
hereof as is possible. His term of office shall be from the date of his
appointment until the second Tuesday of May 1975.
         c.   On or before the second Tuesday of May 1974, the village
president shall appoint one member whose term shall commence on the second
Tuesday of May 1974, and shall be for two (2) years, or until his successor is
appointed and shall have qualified.
         d.   The terms of members appointed by the village president (except
the term of the members appointed under subsections F2a, F2b and F2c of this
section) shall be for two (2) years, or until their successors are appointed
and shall have qualified.
      3.   Elective Members:
         a.   Two (2) members of the board shall be elected from the active
participants of the fund by the active members thereof as follows:
            (1)   A special election shall be called by the appointed members
of the board to be held as soon as possible after the effective date hereof. At
such election, two (2) members of the regular police force shall be elected
members of the board to serve until the second Tuesday of May 1974.
            (2)   The board shall call a regular election to be held on the
third Monday of April 1974, and on the third Monday of April biennially
thereafter, for the election of two (2) members of the active participants of
the fund to serve as members of the board for two (2) year terms, beginning on
the second Tuesday of May following such election, and until their successors
are elected and shall have qualified.
            (3)   Such elections shall be held at such place or places in the
village and under such regulations as shall be prescribed by the appointed
members of the board.
         b.   One member of the board shall be elected by and from the
beneficiaries of the fund as follows:
            (1)   Until such time as the retirement, disability or death of a
police officer shall create a class of beneficiaries of the fund, there shall
not be any election to fill the fifth membership position of such board, but
such position shall remain vacant.
            (2)   When the retirement, disability or death of one or more
police officers shall create a class of beneficiaries of the fund, and upon the
designation of such beneficiaries by the appointed and active members of the
board, an election shall be called to be held as soon as possible after such
designation. At such initial election, the beneficiaries of legal age shall
elect one of their number as a member of the board to serve until the second
Tuesday of May following such election.
            (3)   The board shall call an election to be held on the third
Monday of April following such initial election, and on the third Monday of
April biennially thereafter, for the election of one member from among the
beneficiaries to serve for a two (2) year term beginning on the second Tuesday
of May following such election, or until his successor is elected and shall
have qualified.
         c.   Upon the death, resignation or inability to act of any elected
member of the board, his successor shall be elected for the unexpired term at a
special election to be called by said board and conducted in the same manner as
the regular biennial election.
      4.   Organization:
         a.   Officers: As soon as the initial police pension board has been
constituted, as provided in this subsection, the village shall fix a date for
the first meeting thereof. At such meeting, the members of the police pension
board shall select from among themselves a president, vice president, secretary
and assistant secretary. The term of such offices shall expire on the second
Tuesday in July 1974.
         b.   Meetings:
            (1)   Regular Meetings: The police pension board shall hold regular
meetings in July, October, January and April of each year. At the regular
meeting in July 1974, and at such meeting annually thereafter, the police
pension board shall select the officers named in subsection F4a of this
section, whose terms shall be for one year, or until their successors are
selected and shall have qualified.
            (2)   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be held upon the call
of the president of the police pension board.
         c.   Clerk Of Board: The police pension board may appoint a clerk and
define his duties. The clerk may be paid such reasonable compensation as the
police pension board shall determine. No person drawing a pension under the act
shall be employed by the police pension board.
      5.   Powers And Duties: The police pension board shall have the following
powers and duties (and such other powers and duties as may be conferred thereon
by the act):
         a.   To control and manage, exclusively, the monies of the fund.
         b.   To order and direct the payment of pensions and other benefits
provided by the act.
         c.   To designate the beneficiaries of the fund.
         d.   To issue certificates, signed by the president and secretary of
the police pension board, to beneficiaries of the amount ordered paid from the
fund thereto, and the purpose of such payment. (Ord. 94-03, 1-24-1994)
         e.   Beginning January 1, 1998, to invest funds in accordance with 40
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-113.1. (Ord. 94-03, 1-24-1994; amd. 2012 Code)
         f.   To hold such public hearings as may be necessary or required in
connection with the administration of the fund, and to subpoena witnesses to
attend and testify at such hearings. A stenographic record shall be taken of
all such hearings at which the rights of any person with respect to the fund
may be determined by the police pension board. The cost of such transcript
shall be paid by the fund. Copies thereof shall be provided to any person upon
the payment to the fund of the amount of the actual cost to the fund for
reproducing such copy.
         g.   To provide for the payment from the fund of all necessary
expenses of the fund, including compensation to be paid to the clerk, printing
costs and witness fees.
         h.   To keep a public record of all of its proceedings.
         i.   To adopt such rules and regulations for the administration of the
fund as may be required; provided, that such rules and regulations are
consistent with the provisions of the act and this section, and to amend such
rules and regulations from time to time. A certified copy of such rules and
regulations, and all amendments thereto, shall be filed with the village clerk.
Copies of such rules and regulations, and all amendments thereto, shall be
transmitted to all pensioners of and contributors to the fund.
         j.   To take, by grant, gift, transfer, devise or bequest, any money,
real property or personal property of any description. Such money and the
proceeds of the sale of, or the income derived from, any such real or personal
property shall be paid into the fund.
      6.   Reports Required:
         a.   As soon as practicable after the close of the village fiscal
year, the police pension board shall submit a written report, under oath, to
the village board, signed by the president and secretary of the police pension
board, containing, among other things, the following:
            (1)   A list of persons entitled to payments from the fund as
ordered by the police pension board, stating the amounts and purposes of such
payments.
            (2)   A statement of the items of income accrued to the fund during
the fiscal year.
         b.   Prior to the meeting of the village board held for the purpose of
levying taxes for the year, the police pension board shall submit to the
village board a report containing, among other things, the following:
            (1)   The assets of the fund in the custody of the police pension
board.
            (2)   The estimated receipts during the next succeeding calendar
year for deductions from the salaries of police officers and from all other
sources.
            (3)   Where the reserves provided in subsection H of this section
are less than the actuarial requirements of the fund, a statement of the
proportionate amount needed annually to ensure the accumulation of such
actuarial reserve over a period of forty (40) years subsequent to the date the
fund is established or over a period of time as amended by the act.
            (4)   The estimated amount required during the next succeeding
calendar year to pay all pensions and other obligations of the fund and to
maintain the reserves as provided in subsection H of this section.
   G.   Pensions And Benefits:
      1.   The police pension board shall provide for the payment from the fund
of such pensions and benefits as are provided in the act.
      2.   If, at any time, there are not sufficient monies in the fund to pay
the allowances of the police pension board to the beneficiaries of the fund,
the village board shall make every effort consistent with law to replenish the
fund so that all beneficiaries may receive the amounts to which they are
entitled.
      3.   If, however, after such effort is made as set forth in subsection G2
of this section, there remains a deficit in the fund, the police pension board
shall order pro rata payments from the fund to the beneficiaries.
      4.   No allowance or order of the police pension board shall be held to
create any liability against the village except upon the fund.
   H.   Reserves: The police pension board shall establish and maintain a
reserve in compliance with section 3-127 of the act.
   I.   Rooms For Offices And Meetings: The village board shall make available
to the police pension board suitable rooms for offices and meetings of the
police pension board. (Ord. 94-03, 1-24-1994)
6-1-11: HIRING STANDARDS FOR PART TIME POLICE OFFICERS:
   A.   All part time police officers employed by the village shall be
qualified to enter and successfully complete any training mandated in
accordance with the procedures for part time police officers established by the
Illinois law enforcement training standards board.
   B.   The hiring standard, particularly with respect to part time police
officers employed by the village, shall be submitted to the Illinois law
enforcement training standards board, as required by statute. (Ord. 2007-01, 1-
8-2007, eff. 2-1-2007)
6-1-12: REIMBURSEMENT FOR POLICE TRAINING:
All costs expended by the village on the accomplishment of the police training
program by a person appointed as a probationary police officer of the village,
and not reimbursed, shall be repaid, in full, by said person to the village in
the event that said person should leave the employment of the village prior to
the end of two (2) years following his completion of the police training
program and obtains employment with another police department or police agency
or organization involving police or investigative work. Each person, as a
requirement of his employment as a probationary police officer of the village,
shall execute an agreement with the village, on a form provided by the village
for this purpose, as a contract and agreement by said person to reimburse the
village for such police training program costs as provided in this section.
(Ord. 78-2, 1-23-1978)
6-1-13: BOOKING FEE:
The police department shall charge a fee of thirty dollars ($30.00) for posting
bail or bond in any legal process, civil or criminal. In the event charges are
not paid within forty five (45) days after being incurred and notice of
delinquency sent to the person owing the charge, the village may submit any
delinquent account to a third party collection agent for processing and
collection. If said collection agent assesses a fee for processing or
collection, the village may add up to one hundred percent (100%) of said fee to
the charge in question, plus any late charges. Said fee is due and payable in
addition to all other charges for arrearages and late charges previously
assessed and added to the account. (Ord. 2009-48, 11-23-2009)
CHAPTER 2
EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN
SECTION:
6-2-1: Adoption Of Plan
6-2-1: ADOPTION OF PLAN:
The document entitled "Bloomingdale emergency operations plan", created on
April 22, 2013, as may be amended from time to time, is hereby adopted as the
emergency operations plan for the village of Bloomingdale, DuPage County,
Illinois. (Ord. 2013-18, 4-22-2013)
CHAPTER 3
ALARM SYSTEMS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definitions
6-3-2: Alarm Systems Business
6-3-3: Signaling Device Systems
6-3-4: Outside Ringer And Automatic Protection Systems
6-3-5: Connection Of Signaling Devices
6-3-6: False Alarms
6-3-7: Identification Required For Employees And Representatives
6-3-8: Offenses
6-3-9: Penalty
6-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
ALARM EQUIPMENT INSTALLERS: Any person, firm or corporation engaged in,
conducting or carrying on the business of maintaining, servicing, repairing,
altering, replacing, moving, installing, or causing to be installed, automatic
protection devices or signaling devices which transmit alarms upon receipt of a
stimulus from a detection apparatus to a bell or a remote monitoring location,
or an outside ringer.
AUTOMATIC PROTECTION DEVICE: An electrically operated instrument which
automatically selects a public telephone trunk line of the police department of
the village and then reproduces any prerecorded message to report any robbery,
burglary or other emergency.
FALSE ALARM: A visual and/or audible signal transmitted by an automatic
protection device, a signaling device, or an outside ringer which indicates the
existence of an emergency situation when, in fact, no such emergency exists.
OUTSIDE RINGER: A local alarm that sounds audibly on the premises of the
individual and/or corporate establishment and is not connected to any central
station.
SIGNALING DEVICE: A. An electrically operated instrument which automatically
transmits visual and audible signals over a signal line to be registered by
indicators at a monitor panel in a receiving terminal monitored by the police
department of the village of Bloomingdale.
   B.   The term signaling device shall also include such systems that provide
visual and/or audible systems on the premises. (Ord. 83-2, 1-24-1983)
6-3-2: ALARM SYSTEMS BUSINESS:
   A.   License Required: No person, firm or corporation shall engage in,
conduct or carry on the business of maintaining, servicing, repairing,
altering, replacing, moving, installing, or causing to be installed, in or on
any building, place or premises within the village, any device commonly known
as an automatic protection device or a signaling device which is intended to be
connected to the village police department, or an outside ringer, without
having first obtained a license to do so as provided by this chapter.
   B.   Ineligibility For License: No license shall be issued to any person
convicted of a felony or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude or to any firm
or corporation in which a partner, officer or employee has been convicted of a
felony or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, any such subsequent conviction
being cause for revocation of an existing license. (Ord. 83-2, 1-24-1983)
   C.   Application For License: Applications for licenses to maintain,
service, repair, alter, replace, move or install an automatic protection
device, a signaling device, or an outside ringer shall be filed with the chief
of police on forms prepared by the building department and shall be accompanied
by a processing fee in the amount of thirty dollars ($30.00). Said application
shall include the following: (Ord. 83-2, 1-24-1983; amd. 2012 Code)
      1.   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the type of
business organization (individual, partnership, or corporation). If a
partnership, the names and addresses of the partners; if a corporation, the
names and addresses of the principal officers and the state where incorporated.
      2.   In the case of automatic protection devices, a description of and
operation specifications for the automatic protection device or devices offered
to the public, together with a statement that the equipment complies with the
standards of an underwriting organization such as Underwriters Laboratories,
Factory Mutual, etc.
      3.   A list of names and addresses of persons for whom installations have
been made by the applicant prior to the effective date hereof.
      4.   A list of criminal convictions, if any (other than for minor traffic
offenses), of the applicant, or a list of criminal convictions, if any (other
than for minor traffic offenses), of the partners, directors, and officers, if
the applicant is other than an individual.
      5.   A statement of responsibility for service of the automatic
protection device, signaling device or outside ringer or that the applicant
proposes for the public.
      6.   A statement that the applicant is willing to comply with other
reasonable rules and regulations concerning the installation and operation of
the automatic protection device, signaling device, or outside ringer as may be
issued by the chief of police.
      7.   Such application form shall recite that the applicant releases the
village, its officers, employees, and agents, of any liability arising from the
service, repair, alteration, moving or installing of any automatic protection
device, signaling device, or outside ringer.
   D.   Investigation Of Applicant; Issuance Of License: Licenses under this
chapter shall be issued only after investigation by the chief of police and his
approval that the applicant meets the requirements of this chapter. Licenses
shall be issued by the village administrator.
   E.   Conditions Of License: A licensee must maintain an adequate service
organization to repair, maintain and otherwise service the automatic protection
device, signaling device or outside ringer sold or leased by him, and must
provide his customer locations with twenty four (24) hour emergency service,
seven (7) days a week. (Ord. 83-2, 1-24-1983)
6-3-3: SIGNALING DEVICE SYSTEMS:
   A.   Permit Required: Every user of a signaling device must obtain an alarm
system user permit for such signaling device from the chief of police.
   B.   Application For Permit:
      1.   The alarm user shall state on a permit application form, to be
prepared by the chief of police, his name, the address of the residence or
business or businesses in or upon which the alarm system has been or will be
installed, his telephone number, the alarm business or businesses selling,
installing, monitoring, inspecting, responding to and/or maintaining the alarm
system, and the name, address and telephone number of at least two (2) other
persons who can be reached at any time, day or night, and who are authorized to
respond to an alarm signal and who can enter the premises in which the system
is installed.
      2.   If the applicant is a partnership or corporation, such application
form must so state and recite the names and addresses of the partners or of the
principal officers, and if a corporation, specify the state where incorporated.
      3.   Every alarm system user application shall be accompanied by an
application fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) to reimburse the village for
expenses incurred in connection with alarm system services.
      4.   Such application form shall recite that the applicant releases the
village, its officers, employees and agents, of any liability arising from the
use of the alarm system.
   C.   Right Of Inspection: The chief of police shall have the right to
inspect any signaling device on the premises where it is intended to be used,
both prior to and subsequent to the issuance of a permit, at reasonable times,
to determine whether a permit should be granted and whether it is being used in
conformity with the terms of the permit and the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Charges:
      1.   The permit holder shall pay the alarm equipment installer for all
equipment at its location, fees for connection to the monitoring system, and
maintenance charges necessitated by the installation, operation and maintenance
of the signaling devices in the monitoring system. The company supplying and
maintaining the monitoring system shall have the right to charge alarm system
users or the installer of their equipment a reasonable fee for connection to
and maintenance of the system.
      2.   Each permit holder shall pay to the village, on or before May 1 of
each year, a fee in the amount of twenty five dollars ($25.00) to reimburse the
village for the costs of providing monitoring services to alarm system users
and for other related operating expenses for any signaling device registering
signals by indicators at a monitor panel in a receiver terminal monitored by
the village police department.
   E.   Revocation Or Suspension Of Permit: The chief of police may revoke or
suspend any permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, after
giving written notice to the permit holder and an opportunity for the permit
holder to effect compliance, if he determines that the signaling device under
said permit has been installed, maintained or operated in violation of the
provisions of this chapter or of any term or condition of the permit. (Ord. 83-
2, 1-24-1983)
6-3-4: OUTSIDE RINGER AND AUTOMATIC PROTECTION SYSTEMS:
   A.   Permit Required: Every user of an outside ringer or an automatic
protection device may obtain, at no cost, an alarm user permit for such alarm
systems from the chief of police.
   B.   Application For Permit:
      1.   The alarm user shall state on a permit application form, to be
prepared by the chief of police, his name, the address of the residence or
business or businesses in or upon which the outside ringer or automatic
protection device has been or will be installed, his telephone number, the
alarm business or businesses selling, installing, monitoring, inspecting,
responding to and/or maintaining the alarm system, and the name, address and
telephone number of at least two (2) other persons who can be reached at any
time, day or night, and who are authorized to respond to an alarm signal and
who can enter the premises in which the system is installed.
      2.   If the applicant is a partnership or corporation, such application
form must so state and recite the names and addresses of the partners or of the
principal officers, and if a corporation, specify the state where incorporated.
      3.   Such application form shall recite that the applicant releases the
village, its officers, employees, and agents, of any liability arising from the
use of the alarm system.
   C.   Requirements For Outside Ringers:
      1.   No person shall allow or cause to exist an outside ringer which
emits an audible sound in any manner similar to emergency vehicles of the
village. In addition, said sound shall also be distinguishable from any and all
village alert systems disseminated in an audible manner.
      2.   All outside ringers shall be equipped with an automatic shutoff
which will deactivate the alarm within fifteen (15) minutes of the initial
alarm. The person owning or operating an outside ringer shall have one year
from the effective date hereof to provide such automatic shutoff. Failure to
provide such shutoff shall result in an order to disconnect the ringer by the
village.
      3.   In addition to any other remedies provided by ordinance, the chief
of police, or his representative, whenever he shall have knowledge of the
misuse or improper maintenance of an outside ringer, may order the removal and/
or deactivation of the system.
   D.   Right Of Inspection: The chief of police shall have the right to
inspect, at reasonable times, any outside ringer or automatic protection device
on the premises where it is used to determine whether it is being used in
conformity with the terms of the permit and provisions of this chapter.
   E.   Revocation Of Permit: If the chief of police determines that the
automatic protection device or outside ringer has been installed, maintained or
operated in violation of the provisions of this chapter or of any term or
condition of said permit, then, after giving written notice to the permit
holder and after allowing an adequate opportunity for the permit holder to
effect compliance, he may:
      1.   Order the deactivation of any automatic protection device or outside
ringer; or
      2.   Suspend any permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 83-2, 1-24-1983)
6-3-5: CONNECTION OF SIGNALING DEVICES:
All signaling devices transmitting signals to the village police department
monitor panel shall use telephone trunk lines specifically designated for that
purpose. (Ord. 83-2, 1-24-1983)
6-3-6: FALSE ALARMS:
   A.   Responsibility For False Alarms: Each person, firm, partnership or
corporation holding a permit for the use of an automatic protection device,
signaling device or outside ringer shall be responsible for any false alarm
transmitted or emitted by the device in use at the permitted location.
   B.   Maximum Number Allowed: More than four (4) false alarms in a calendar
year, or more than one in a three (3) month period, from any alarm system for
which an alarm user permit has been obtained, may constitute grounds for
revocation of such permit.
   C.   Quarterly Report By Police Chief: The chief of police shall submit a
quarterly summary of all false alarms and actions taken to the president.
   D.   Fees For False Alarms:
      1.   The holder of an alarm user permit shall be assessed a fee of twenty
five dollars ($25.00) for each false alarm in excess of one in any three (3)
month period. This shall be in addition to any suspension or revocation of the
permit which might be imposed. Such charge shall be remitted to the village by
such permit holder upon receipt of a statement for such charge.
      2.   After the chief of police has recorded four (4) false alarms within
a calendar year, or more than one within three (3) months, for any alarm user
permit holder, the permit holder shall be invoiced. (Ord. 83-2, 1-24-1983; amd.
2012 Code)
6-3-7: IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED FOR EMPLOYEES AND REPRESENTATIVES:
All employees, agents or representatives of individuals or entities
maintaining, servicing, repairing, altering, replacing, moving or installing
alarm equipment and devices shall be supplied with a proper identification
card. This identification card shall be in the employee's possession at all
times and shall include a photo, physical description, and the signature of the
employee and of an officer of the employing entity. (Ord. 83-2, 1-24-1983)
6-3-8: OFFENSES:
The following shall constitute an offense:
   A.   The failure of any alarm user permittee to obtain an alarm system user
permit pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   The failure of a permittee to pay the fees required by this chapter.
   C.   The failure of a permittee to properly maintain his alarm system or
cause same to be properly maintained according to recognized minimum standards
of the alarm industry.
   D.   An excessive number of false alarms as defined in section
6-3-1 of this chapter.
   E.   Failure to comply with any suspension or revocation of an alarm user
permit.
   F.   The failure of a licensee to pay the fee required by this chapter.
   G.   The failure of any alarm system business licensee to obtain an alarm
system business license pursuant to this chapter. Each day that a violation
occurs shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 83-2, 1-24-1983)
6-3-9: PENALTY:
In addition to all other penalties provided in title 4, chapter 1 of this code,
any person, firm, or corporation who shall be convicted of violating any
provision of this chapter shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. 83-2, 1-24-1983; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 4
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definition
6-4-2: Livestock And Poultry
6-4-3: At Large Animals
6-4-4: Noisy Animals
6-4-5: Cruelty To Animals
6-4-6: Birds Protected
6-4-7: Penalty
6-4-1: DEFINITION:
The word "animal", as used in this chapter, is hereby defined to mean any
living, vertebrate creature, domestic or wild, not including man. (Ord. 72-30,
7-12-1972; amd. 2012 Code)
6-4-2: LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY:
No person shall keep, or suffer to be kept, any cattle, goats, swine, or
poultry in the village, except as necessarily incidental and directly related
to the conduct of a licensed business establishment. Any person who shall be
convicted of violating this section shall be punishable by fine in the amount
of fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first offense; seventy-five dollars ($75.00)
for the second offense; and one hundred twenty-five dollars ($125.00) for the
third offense and any additional offense thereafter. (Ord. 72-30, 7-12-1972;
amd. Ord. 2020-34, 11-23-2020)
6-4-3: AT LARGE ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful, and it is hereby declared to be a nuisance, for any
domestic animal of the species of horse, mule, goat, swine, sheep, poultry, or
cattle of any kind, to run, go, or be at large within the village. (Ord. 72-30,
7-12-1972)
6-4-4: NOISY ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful to harbor or keep any animal which disturbs the peace by
loud noises at any time of the day or night. (Ord. 72-30, 7-12-1972)
6-4-5: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
Any person who shall commit any of the following acts shall be deemed guilty of
cruelty to an animal(s):
   A.   By abandoning any animal.
   B.   By failing to provide any animal in one's charge or custody, as owner
or otherwise, with proper food, drink, shelter or air.
   C.   By driving or keeping, or causing to be driven or kept, any animal in a
cruel manner.
   D.   By overloading, overdriving, overworking, beating, torturing,
tormenting, mutilating, or killing any animal, or causing or knowingly allowing
the same to be done. (Ord. 72-30, 7-12-1972; amd. 2012 Code)
6-4-6: BIRDS PROTECTED:
No person shall kill or wound, or attempt to kill or wound, any game bird or
songbird in the village, or shall take the eggs or young of any such game bird
or songbird. (Ord. 72-30, 7-12-1972)
6-4-7: PENALTY:
Any person who shall be convicted of violating any provision of this chapter
shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each offense shall result in a fine in the
amount not less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). (Ord. 72-30, 7-12-
1972; amd. 2012 Code; amd. Ord. 2020-34, 11-23-2020)
ARTICLE A. DOGS
SECTION:
6-4A-1: Definitions
6-4A-2: Licensing Provisions
6-4A-3: Number Of Dogs Permitted
6-4A-4: Restraint And Excrement Removal Required
6-4A-5: Presence On Certain Premises Restricted
6-4A-6: Nuisance Dogs
6-4A-7: Female Dogs In Estrus (Heat)
6-4A-8: Dangerous, Vicious Dogs
6-4A-9: Impoundment And Redemption Procedures
6-4A-9-1: All Animals Subject To Impoundment
6-4A-9-2: Redemption And Disposition Of Impounded Animals
6-4A-10: Rabies Control
6-4A-11: Surrender Of Rabid Or Dangerous Dog
6-4A-12: The Killing Of Threatening Animals
6-4A-13: Penalty; Liability For Damages
6-4A-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this article:
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: The chief of police, or an authorized designee, shall
be the animal control officer for the village.
COUNTY ANIMAL CONTROL: The DuPage County animal care and control department.
DOG: All domestic members of the biological family of carnivorans known as
Canidae.
DOG, AT LARGE: Any dog shall be deemed to be at large when it is off the
premises of its owner or keeper and not under the adequate restraint of a
competent person (the "custodian"). A dog is under adequate restraint, within
the meaning of this article, if it is on its owner's or keeper's premises, and
the dog has not strayed off such premises; or on a stout leash, not more than
eight feet (8') in length.
DOG, DANGEROUS: Any dog that, because of its aggressive nature, training or
characteristic behavior, presents a risk of serious physical harm or death to
human beings, or would constitute a danger to human life, physical well being
or property if not kept under the direct control of the owner. The term
"dangerous dog" includes, but is not limited to, any dog that, according to the
records of either the village, the police department, the fire protection
district, local medical providers, county animal control, any law enforcement
agency, or a licensed veterinarian:
   A.   Has aggressively bitten, attacked, endangered, or inflicted severe
injury on a human being on public or private property, or when unprovoked, has
chased or approached a person upon the streets, sidewalks or any public grounds
in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack; provided, that such
actions are attested to in a sworn statement by one or more persons and
dutifully investigated by any of the above referenced authorities; or
   B.   Has severely injured or killed a domestic animal while off the owner's
property; or
   C.   Has been used primarily, or in part, for the purpose of dogfighting, or
is a dog trained for dogfighting.
DOG, VICIOUS: Any dog that, at any time, has attacked a person without
provocation.
HAS BEEN BITTEN: Has been seized with the teeth or jaws so that the person or
animal seized has been nipped, gripped, wounded or pierced, and further
includes contact of saliva with any break or abrasion of the skin.
HEALTH DEPARTMENT: The DuPage County Health Department.
KENNEL CUSTODIAN: The Director of Public Works, or an authorized designee, who
shall be responsible for the temporary care of dogs and the maintenance of the
Village operated kennel.
OWNER: A. A person, partnership or corporation who has a right of property in a
dog;
   B.   A person, partnership or corporation who keeps a dog;
   C.   A person, partnership or corporation who has a dog in his care or
custody; or
   D.   A person, partnership or corporation who knowingly permits a dog to
remain on or about any premises occupied thereby. (Ord. 2014-17, 4-14-2014;
amd. Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
6-4A-2: LICENSING PROVISIONS:
   A.   License Required: No person shall own, keep, harbor, or have custody of
any dog over four (4) months of age without first obtaining a dog license from
the Police Department.
   B.   Certificate Of Rabies Inoculation Required: A certificate of
inoculation against rabies issued by the State, County animal control, or a
licensed veterinarian, bearing proof that such inoculation is effective at the
time of application of a dog license, shall be furnished to the Police
Department for inspection at the time of application for a dog license.
   C.   Application For License: At the time of making application for a dog
license, the owner shall furnish the following information to the Police
Department:
      1.   The name, address and telephone number of the owner of the dog;
      2.   The name, sex and breed of the dog;
      3.   The name and address of the issuer of the certificate of
inoculation;
      4.   The date of inoculation;
      5.   The inoculation tag number; and
      6.   Such other information as may be required by the Police Department.
   D.   Tags:
      1.   Upon issuing a license to keep a dog, the Police Department shall
issue to the owner a durable tag bearing the words "Bloomingdale Dog Tag", and
with the license number and license period marked thereon. No fee is required.
      2.   Tags issued pursuant to this subsection must be affixed to the
collar of the dog, and the collar is to be worn by the dog at all practicable
times.
      3.   Any owner of a licensed dog whose tag has been lost may obtain a
replacement tag from the Police Department for no charge.
   E.   Term Of License; Renewals: A license, if not revoked, shall be valid
until December 31 following the date of issuance. A new license shall be
obtained on or before January 1 of each year by every owner.
   F.   Nonresidents:
      1.   Nonresidents keeping a dog in the Village no longer than thirty (30)
days will not be required to make application for a license; provided, that the
dog is kept under restraint.
      2.   Nonresidents keeping a dog in the Village thirty (30) days or longer
are required to make application for a license.
      3.   Any nonresident who keeps a dog in the village for any length of
time is responsible for ensuring the dog is currently vaccinated against rabies
and is kept under restraint.
   G.   Revocation Of License; Destruction Of Dog Required:
      1.   The animal control officer may revoke any dog license if the person
holding the license refuses or fails to comply with this article, or any state
or local law governing cruelty to dogs or the keeping of dogs.
      2.   Any person whose dog license is revoked shall, within ten (10) days
thereafter, humanely dispose of all dogs being owned, kept or harbored by such
person, and no part of any fees shall be refunded. It shall be a condition of
the issuance of any dog license to any owner of dogs kept for commercial
purposes that the animal control officer shall be permitted to inspect all dogs
on the premises where the dogs are kept at any reasonable time, and the animal
control officer shall, if permission for such inspection is refused, revoke the
dog license of the refusing owner. (Ord. 2014-17, 4-14-2014)
6-4A-3: NUMBER OF DOGS PERMITTED:
No person shall own or harbor at any one time more than three (3) dogs over the
age of four (4) months on or about any residence. Said limitations shall not
take precedence over any covenants, restrictions, or tenant rules which are
more restrictive. This section shall not apply to any veterinary hospital, pet
shop, pound or licensed kennel. The mere obtaining of a dog license or tag
shall not be construed to allow the keeping of more than the number of dogs
provided in this section. (Ord. 2014-17, 4-14-2014)
6-4A-4: RESTRAINT AND EXCREMENT REMOVAL REQUIRED:
   A.   Restraint: It shall be unlawful for any dog, except when on a leash, to
use, be or enter upon any public street, sidewalk, parkway, recreational path,
or public area within the village. No leash shall be longer than eight feet
(8'). This subsection shall not apply to dogs used in assisting an individual
with a handicap or a community owned police dog.
   B.   Excrement Removal: The owner or custodian of the dog must have proper
means to clean up and dispose of any fecal matter deposited by the dog on
public or private property. (Ord. 2014-17, 4-14-2014)
6-4A-5: PRESENCE ON CERTAIN PREMISES RESTRICTED:
   A.   Businesses:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any dog to be or enter upon any shop,
store, or retail place of business wherein the public is invited to do business
with the management thereof during such hours in which the public is invited or
to be or enter upon any public building at any time.
      2.   The provisions of this subsection A shall not apply to dogs used in
assisting an individual with a handicap or a community owned police dog.
      3.   Nothing to the contrary withstanding, dogs under the control of an
individual eighteen (18) years of age or older shall be permitted upon the
premises of a veterinary clinic, pet store, pet supply store, animal grooming
establishment or any other location; provided, that the management of the
business consents to the presence of dogs upon the premises; and further
provided, that the dog is under the control of an individual eighteen (18)
years of age or older during the entire time the dog is present on the
premises.
   B.   Schools:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any dog, even though on a leash, to enter
or be upon or in any school premises. The provisions of this subsection shall
not apply to dogs used in assisting an individual with a handicap or community
owned police dog. (Ord. 2014-17, 4-14-2014)
6-4A-6: NUISANCE DOGS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this section for any owner or
custodian to permit, allow or otherwise fail to prevent any dog from being a
nuisance. For the purposes of this section, a dog shall be considered to be a
nuisance if any such dog:
      1.   Is allowed to bark, whine, howl or make other noises excessively;
      2.   Substantially damages the property of any person other than its
owner;
      3.   Causes unsanitary, dangerous or unreasonable offensive conditions;
      4.   Chases vehicles;
      5.   Chases, molests, attacks, bites, interferes with or physically
intimidates any person while on or off the premises of its owner unless acting
in the defense of its owner on such owner's premises; or
      6.   Chases, molests, attacks, bites or interferes with any other animal
while off the premises of its owner.
   B.   Any dog being a nuisance under subsection A of this section and
discovered to be at large may be impounded by any police officer or any village
or county animal control officer. (Ord. 2014-17, 4-14-2014)
6-4A-7: FEMALE DOGS IN ESTRUS (HEAT):
Every female dog in heat shall be confined in a building or secure enclosure at
all times, or shall be kept on a leash not to exceed twelve feet (12') in
length, and shall not be at large in the streets, parks or other public places
in the village or on any premises other than that of the owner; except, that
female dogs in heat may be in or upon premises other than that of the owner for
purposes of planned breeding. (Ord. 2014-17, 4-14-2014)
6-4A-8: DANGEROUS, VICIOUS DOGS:
   A.   Dangerous Dogs: It shall be unlawful and a violation of this section
for the owner of any dog within the village that is found to be a dangerous dog
pursuant to the provisions of subsection C of this section to fail to do any of
the following:
      1.   To post in clear view at all times, and in the most conspicuous and
prominent point of entry to such owner's premises, a sign indicating that a
dangerous dog is on such premises. Such sign shall be at least eight and one-
half inches by eleven inches (81/2" x 11") in size but no larger than eleven
inches by seventeen inches (11" x 17") and shall contain in words and pictures
a clear indication that a dangerous dog is on the premises.
      2.   To muzzle and keep under the control of a responsible adult any such
dangerous dog, by means of a leash, when not otherwise under restraint.
      3.   To fail to inform the police department of any change in ownership
of any such dangerous dog.
   B.   Vicious Dogs:
      1.   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this section for the owner
of any dog within the village to keep, maintain, abandon, sell or otherwise
transfer any such dog that is found to be a vicious dog pursuant to the
provisions of subsection C of this section. Any such vicious dog is hereby
declared to be a nuisance and is subject to immediate impoundment.
      2.   Any vicious dog impounded under this subsection shall not be
returned to its owner unless such dog is subsequently found not to be a vicious
dog by the animal control officer, an authorized veterinarian employed by the
village, county animal control, or by the village hearing officer after an
administrative appeal is adjudicated as described in subsection C of this
section. Any dog subsequently found to be a vicious dog shall be humanely
destroyed.
      3.   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this article for the owner
of any premises to knowingly permit a lessee of such premises to move, keep or
maintain a vicious dog on or within any such leased premises. Any owner of any
such leased premises shall, upon learning that any vicious dog is being so
moved, kept or maintained, notify the lessee having any such vicious dog to
immediately remove such vicious dog from such leased premises and report same
to the animal control officer.
   C.   Declaring Dogs Dangerous Or Vicious:
      1.   Requirements: The animal control officer or any police officer may
find a dog to be a dangerous dog or a vicious dog after fulfilling each of the
following requirements:
         a.   By conducting an investigation; and
         b.   Making findings of fact in writing that the dog is a dangerous
dog or a vicious dog; and
         c.   Based upon such findings of fact, making a declaration in writing
that the dog is a dangerous dog or a vicious dog, and by citing the specific
provisions of this article or state statute upon which such a declaration is
based.
      2.   Written Declaration To Owner: The owner of any such dog shall be
served with a copy of such written declaration which also includes information
regarding the owner's right to appeal such declaration as provided in
subsection C3 of this section, either personally or by first class mail,
postage prepaid, to such owner's last known address. The date of service of any
written declaration or notice under this subsection C2 shall be deemed to be
either the date of the personal service or three (3) calendar days after the
date that the written declaration or notice was mailed in the manner provided
in this subsection C2.
      3.   Right To Appeal: Any owner may appeal any such written declaration
that a dog is a dangerous dog or a vicious dog by filing a written request for
an administrative appeal hearing with the animal control officer within seven
(7) working days after service of the written declaration.
      4.   Hearing: Upon the filing by an owner of any such written request for
an administrative appeal hearing before the village administrator in the role
of hearing officer, such hearing shall be scheduled by the hearing officer
within not less than five (5) nor more than fifteen (15) working days, and
notice of the time and place of such appeal hearing shall be served upon the
owner who requested the appeal either personally or by first class mail,
postage prepaid, to such owner's last known address. The appeal hearing shall
be open to the public and shall be recorded. The hearing officer may admit into
evidence all relevant matters, including incident reports, and either the
affidavits or live testimony of witnesses. The hearing officer shall determine,
based upon a preponderance of the evidence, whether the dog is a dangerous dog
or a vicious dog. If the written declaration specifies that the dog is a
vicious dog, the hearing officer may nevertheless determine that any such dog
is a dangerous dog rather than a vicious dog if the evidence so warrants.
      5.   Notice Of Decision: The hearing officer shall serve written notice
upon the owner of the determination of the hearing officer, either personally
or by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the owner's last known address.
      6.   Failure To Appeal: Upon the failure of an owner to make a written
request for an administrative hearing within the time specified, or if the
hearing officer makes a written determination that a dog is a dangerous dog or
a vicious dog, the dog shall be considered to be a dangerous dog or a vicious
dog, as the case may be.
   D.   Immediate Impoundment Of Suspected Dangerous Or Vicious Dog:
      1.   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article, a police
officer may take immediate custody of any dog who has bitten any person and
hold said animal at a facility authorized in section
6-4A-9 of this article.
      2.   Any police officer has the right and duty to immediately impound a
dog pursuant to this subsection D if he has probable cause to believe the dog
is a dangerous dog or a vicious dog and that it is reasonably necessary to
immediately impound the dog in order to protect the health, welfare or safety
of the general public.
   E.   Humane Destruction Of Vicious Dogs: Upon any dog being found to be a
vicious dog, such dog shall be humanely destroyed after not less than seven (7)
working days after the date of service of the declaration or, if appealed, the
notice of determination upon the owner, unless such owner, within that time
period, delivers to the animal control officer, a request to stay the humane
destruction for a period of ten (10) working days for the purpose of filing a
complaint for court review of the declaration or determination of being found a
vicious dog. If, at the end of that period, the village has not received any
notice that a complaint for court review of the declaration or determination
has been filed, such vicious dog shall be humanely destroyed without further
notice to the owner. (Ord. 2014-17, 4-14-2014)
6-4A-9: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Dogs Subject To Impoundment: Any dog found running at large within the
limits of the village in violation of this article, as well as any dog in
violation of section
6-4A-9-1 of this article, shall be deemed a public nuisance and shall be
apprehended and impounded and therein confined in a humane manner.
   B.   Authority To Impound; Recorded Entry In Log: It shall be the duty of
the animal control officer to apprehend, impound, and confine any dog in
violation of subsection A of this section. The animal control officer shall
immediately, upon the impounding of any dog, make a recorded entry in a log
kept at the police department and with the police emergency dispatch agency of
such impoundment, recording, if known: the breed, color, and sex of such dog,
whether licensed and any other information deemed necessary.
   C.   Time Of Retention; Redemption Provisions:
      1.   Impounded dogs shall be kept for not less than seven (7) days unless
reclaimed by the owner or his designee and only upon showing proof of rabies
inoculation or proper village licensing.
      2.   The animal control officer reserves the right to send dogs to county
animal control earlier than the seven (7) days if the dog is sick, injured, or
deemed dangerous, or if it is deemed a nuisance to kennel operations in any
manner.
      3.   An owner, or his designee, reclaiming an impounded dog shall present
proof of rabies inoculation or proper village licensing to the animal control
officer. An owner reclaiming an impounded dog shall pay all applicable fees
referenced herein and in subsection D of this section.
   D.   Fee Schedule:
      1.
 
                    Kennel Fee After An Initial Kennel Fee For Every 24
                    8 Hour Time Period (Or      Hour Time Period Thereafter
                    Portion Thereof)            (Or Portion Thereof)
Dog with or without $40.00                      $20.00
village license
 
      2.   A license application form, if not done previously, must be
completed prior to the redemption of any dog.
      3.   The assessment of the initial kennel fee provided in subsection D1
of this section begins eight (8) hours after the dog is logged in at the
kennel. The initial fee is for a twenty four (24) hour time period, including
the initial eight (8) hours.
      4.   Subsequent kennel fees provided in subsection D1 of this section
begin twenty four (24) hours after a dog is initially logged in at the kennel
and are assessed for each twenty four (24) hour period or portion thereof. The
animal control officer shall determine the fee to be charged by computing the
time elapsed from the impoundment and log in to the release time.
      5.   All fees are to be paid and proper village license issued prior to
the release of any dog, however, the animal control officer may release the dog
to the owner for vaccination for rabies, provided vaccination occurs within
seven (7) days of release of the animal as described in subsection 6-4A-9-2B of
this article.
      6.   With the adoption of this article, the village administrator, from
time to time, may review and adjust, as necessary, the fees contained in this
subsection.
   E.   Unclaimed Dogs Transferred: Dogs not claimed by their owners or
designee within seven (7) days will be transferred to county animal control.
(Ord. 2014-17, 4-14-2014)
6-4A-9-1: ALL ANIMALS SUBJECT TO IMPOUNDMENT:
An animal shall be subject to impoundment if such animal:
   A.   Has been subject to the commission of cruelty;
   B.   Has been used to commit a criminal act;
   C.   Is not properly tagged showing vaccination against rabies as provided
under this article;
   D.   Constitutes a rabies threat as provided under this article;
   E.   Is discovered to be at large as provided under this article;
   F.   Is a nuisance as provided under this article;
   G.   Has been found to be a dangerous dog and is not otherwise kept in
compliance with the provisions of subsection 6-4A-8A of this article;
   H.   Has been found to be a vicious dog and is subject to the provisions of
subsection 6-4A-8B of this article;
   I.   Is lost, apparently abandoned or otherwise deemed a stray; or
   J.   Is otherwise subject to impoundment under any other section of this
article or any applicable provision of state law. (Ord. 2014-17, 4-14-2014)
6-4A-9-2: REDEMPTION AND DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS:
   A.   Any animal may be redeemed from impoundment only upon compliance with
this section and only when otherwise permitted by this article.
   B.   No animal may be redeemed from impoundment unless its owner first pays
general impoundment fees, provides proof of having paid the rabies vaccination
fee, and any other costs for spaying or neutering, veterinary or other care.
The animal may be released to the owner to obtain rabies vaccination or
neutering, however, the owner must provide the police department with proof of
vaccination or neutering within seven (7) days after the animal is released to
the owner.
   C.   Any dog subject to proceedings to determine whether such dog is a
dangerous dog or a vicious dog may be redeemed from impoundment only at such
time as may be permitted under section
6-4A-8 of this article.
   D.   If any impounded dog has not been vaccinated against rabies, the police
department shall notify county animal control, giving the name and address of
the owner. Said dog can only be released according to the provisions of
subsection B of this section.
   E.   If the dog released to the owner according to subsection B of this
section has not been inoculated for rabies or neutered after the seven (7) day
requirement has expired, the owner shall be guilty of a violation of subsection
B of this section and the animal control officer may issue a citation for every
day that the dog is out of compliance.
   F.   A dog which has found to be at large three (3) times will not be
returned to its owner unless the dog has first been neutered or spayed at the
expense of the owner. The neutering or spaying requirement must be satisfied by
having the procedure performed by a veterinarian of the owner's choice. In this
case, the police department may release the animal for neutering or spaying,
provided the procedure is completed within seven (7) days of the release of the
dog to the owner.
   G.   Any dog impounded and not redeemed within seven (7) working days after
being impounded may be humanely destroyed. In the case of a dog subject to
proceedings regarding being found to be a vicious dog, such dog may be humanely
destroyed pursuant to section
6-4A-8 of this article, or within seven (7) working days after such dog is not
found to be a vicious dog and thus authorized to be redeemed from impoundment.
(Ord. 2014-17, 4-14-2014)
6-4A-10: RABIES CONTROL:
   A.   Report Of Rabies Suspects: Any veterinarian, owner or person in a law
enforcement capacity discovering or suspecting any dog to be suffering with
rabies shall forthwith report such fact to the police department and to the
health department, giving the name and address of the owner of such dog, if
known, and the license number thereof, if known. If such dog, after examination
by the health department, is thereby suspected to be suffering from such
disease, the dog shall be immediately impounded at the county rabies control
pound or, at the option of the owner, placed in the charge of a veterinarian
licensed by the state of Illinois, whose establishment is located in the
county, for a period of not less than ten (10) days, for observation. Any
impoundment shall be at the expense of the owner. If the dog should die during
the interval of observation, the owner shall be responsible for compliance with
the appropriate state and county health regulations and procedures.
   B.   Impoundment For Observation: Any dog which shall have been bitten by
another dog having or suspected of having rabies shall be immediately impounded
for observation, as provided by Illinois statute.
   C.   Sale Or Removal Of Dog Suspected To Have Rabies From The County
Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog, when notified that
such dog has bitten or scratched any person or has otherwise injured any person
so as to cause an abrasion or laceration of the skin, to sell or give away such
dog or permit or allow such dog to be taken beyond the limits of the county.
   D.   Confinement For Observation:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the owner, upon receiving such notice, to
immediately place the dog in a duly licensed veterinary hospital located in the
county or the county rabies control pound where such dog shall be confined for
a period of at least ten (10) days, for observation.
      2.   In case the dog is delivered to a veterinary hospital, notice of the
name and location of the hospital shall be immediately furnished to the police
department and to the county health department by the owner of the dog, and
upon receipt of the dog, the veterinary hospital shall submit to the village
police department and the county health department or the county rabies control
division the certificate of a licensed veterinarian stating that such dog shows
no symptoms of rabies.
      3.   If, at the expiration of the ten (10) days of confinement in the
veterinary hospital, the veterinary hospital shall submit to the police
department and the county health department or to the county rabies control
division a second certificate stating that the dog does not have rabies, the
dog then may be released.
      4.   When evidence is presented to a licensed veterinarian that the dog
was inoculated against rabies within the time prescribed by law, it may be
confined in the house of its owner, or in a manner which will prohibit it from
biting any person for a period of ten (10) days, if a licensed veterinarian
adjudges such confinement satisfactory. (Ord. 2014-17, 4-14-2014)
6-4A-11: SURRENDER OF RABID OR DANGEROUS DOG:
It shall be the duty of the owner or custodian of any dangerous dog or of any
dog suffering or suspected to be suffering from rabies to surrender possession
of such dog to a police officer upon his demand. Any police officer may enter
upon private premises to apprehend any dangerous dog or any dog suffering or
suspected to be suffering from rabies. (Ord. 2014-17, 4-14-2014)
6-4A-12: THE KILLING OF THREATENING ANIMALS:
If any animal is discovered to be at large and cannot be safely tranquilized or
otherwise impounded, any such animal may be killed by any police officer when
necessary for the protection of any person or property. (Ord. 2014-17, 4-14-
2014)
6-4A-13: PENALTY; LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES:
   A.   Any person violating any provision of this article shall be deemed to
be guilty of an offense and shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each offense shall result in a fine in the amount not less
than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
B.   If any dog, without provocation, attacks or injures any person who is
peaceably conducting himself in any place where he may lawfully be, the owner
of the dog is liable for damages to such person for the full amount of the
injury sustained and shall, in addition thereto, be in violation of this
article for failure to control the dog and shall be subject to penalties as
provided under this article. (Ord. 2014-17, 4-14-2014; amd. Ord. 2020-34, 11-
23-2020)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Assault; Fights
6-5-2: Disturbing The Peace
6-5-3: Disorderly Conduct
6-5-4: Unlawful Assemblies
6-5-5: Trespass
6-5-6: Possession Of Cannabis Or Cannabis Paraphernalia
6-5-7: Sale Or Distribution Of Drug Paraphernalia
6-5-8: Retail Theft
6-5-9: Public Indecency
6-5-10: Obscene Publications
6-5-11: Discharging Firearms
6-5-12: Posting Bills And Advertisements
6-5-13: Public Intoxication
6-5-14: Synthetic Alternative Drugs
6-5-15: Drones/Small Unmanned Aircraft
6-5-1: ASSAULT; FIGHTS:
Whoever shall assault, strike, or fight another, or attempt to do so, shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each violation of this Section shall result in a fine in
the amount not less than three hundred dollars ($300.00). (Ord. ch. XX, 2-9-
1938; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2020-34, 11-23-2020)
6-5-2: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
Whoever shall disturb the peace and quiet of the Village or any neighborhood,
family or person by loud and unusual noises, shouting, blowing horns, yelling,
singing, or whistling, or by tumultuous and offensive carriage, or other
boisterous and unseemly conduct shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each violation of this Section shall result in a fine in
the amount not less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). (Ord. ch. XX, 2-
9-1938; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2020-34, 11-23-2020)
6-5-3: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
   A.   Acts Declared Disorderly Conduct: No person shall engage in disorderly
conduct in the Village. Any of the following acts shall constitute disorderly
conduct:
      1.   Making or aiding or assisting in making any improper noise, riot,
disturbance, breach of the peace or diversion tending to a breach of the peace,
the propriety of said conduct being measured in the context of the circumstance
under which the action has taken place and wherein it is finally adjudicated
that such conduct is unreasonable in that context.
      2.   Assaulting, striking or deliberately injuring another person.
      3.   Engaging in or aiding or abetting any fight, quarrel or other
disturbance.
      4.   Disturbing any religious service, funeral, public or private
meeting, place of amusement or assembly of persons.
      5.   Making any unreasonable or offensive act, utterance, gesture, or
display which, under the circumstances, creates a clear and present danger of a
breach of the peace or imminent threat of violence.
      6.   Refusing or failing to cease and desist any conduct or activity
likely to produce a breach of the peace where there is an imminent threat of
violence and where the police have made all reasonable effort to protect the
otherwise peaceful conduct and activity, and have requested that said conduct
and activity be stopped and have explained the request if there is time.
      7.   Failing to obey a lawful order of disbursement by a person known by
the offender to be a police officer under circumstances where three (3) or more
persons are committing acts of disorderly conduct in the immediate vicinity,
which acts are likely to cause substantial harm or serious inconvenience,
annoyance or alarm.
      8.   Assembling with three (3) or more persons for the purpose of using
force or violence to disturb the public peace.
      9.   Appearing in any public place manifestly under the influence of
alcohol, narcotics or other drugs, not therapeutically administered, to the
degree that the offender may endanger himself or other persons or property, or
annoy persons in his vicinity.
      10.   Resisting or obstructing the performance of one known to be a
police officer or any authorized act within the police officer's official
capacity or impersonating a police officer.
      11.   Assisting any person in the custody of the police to escape, or
furnishing any weapons, drugs or liquor to any such person. (Ord. 81-17, 4-13-
1981)
      12.   Engaging in any fraudulent scheme, device or trick to obtain money
or other valuable thing. (Ord. 81-17, 4-13-1981; amd. 2012 Code)
      13.   Giving any false alarm of fire, danger or disturbance to any
person, or false information to any police officer, firefighter or any village
officer.
      14.   Throwing stones or missiles in public places or at any person or
property, or using, brandishing or threatening to use any missile or dangerous
weapon or object.
      15.   Damaging or defacing trees, bushes, gardens, fences, windows,
signs, buildings, monuments or vehicles, or engaging in any acts of vandalism
including, but not limited to, defacing of property by the scrawling or writing
on such property without the express consent of the property owner.
      16.   Anyone, who is not authorized by law, carrying, either publicly or
concealed, any pistol, dagger, razor, knife, slingshot, metal knuckles, or any
other weapon or thing of deadly character. "Carrying" shall include both
carrying on or about the person or carrying within a vehicle.
      17.   Hindering, annoying, or molesting persons passing along any street,
sidewalk, crosswalk, or other place which is open to pedestrian traffic or
where the public is invited to enter.
      18.   Loitering, sitting, or standing around the entrance of any church,
theater, public building, store, restaurant, or other place of public
assemblage or place where the public is invited in a manner so as to
unreasonably obstruct the entrance to any such place.
      19.   a. Any person not specifically authorized by law discharging any
firearm within the village. This subsection A19a shall not apply to peace
officers.
         b.   Firing or discharging on any street, public way, public alley or
other public place or any way within the village any air gun or air pistol,
spring gun or spring pistol or other device which is calculated or intended to
propel or project a bullet, pellet, arrow or similar projectile.
      20.   Disturbing the peace and quiet of any persons within the village by
creating excessive noises. Excessive noise shall include, but not by way of
limitation, any of the following:
         a.   Loud playing of phonographs, radios, television sets, or music
machines, or musical instruments;
         b.   Barking or howling of dogs or cats or other animals;
         c.   Vehicles operating without mufflers or the unnecessary use of
horns on vehicles; unnecessary being measured by reasonableness within the
context in which the use of the horn takes place.
      21.   Littering any public or private property with paper or other debris
or foreign matter. Any stored or transported material susceptible to blowing or
scattering shall be adequately covered or protected to prevent littering.
   B.   Signs Posted: If, in the opinion of the chief of police, the posting of
signs which state the prohibition of one or more of the above and foregoing
activities is necessary, the chief shall cause the posting of said signs. If
these signs are to be placed on private property, the cost of the posting of
said signs shall be borne by the property owner. (Ord. 81-17, 4-13-1981)
   C.   Penalty: Any person found to violate any of the provisions of this
section shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each offense under
6-5-3(A)(16) and
6-5-3(A)(20) shall be punishable by a fine in the amount not less than one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). All other violations provided for in this
Section shall be punishable by a fine in the amount not less than three hundred
dollars ($300.00). In addition to any other penalty which may be imposed,
weapons used or found in violation of this section shall be forfeited to and
confiscated by the village. (Ord. 81-17, 4-13-1981; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2020-
34, 11-23-2020)
6-5-4: UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLIES:
Any three (3) or more persons who shall assemble for the purpose of disturbing
the peace or of committing any unlawful act, and who shall not disperse when
commanded or requested by any police officer, shall each and severally be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each individual found to be in violation of this section
shall be fined in the amount not less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
(Ord. ch. XX, 2-9-1938; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2020-34, 11-23-2020)
6-5-5: TRESPASS:
   A.   Offense: Whoever enters upon the land, or any part thereof, of another,
after receiving, immediately prior to such entry, notice from the owner or
occupant that such entry is forbidden, or remains upon the land of another
after receiving notice from the owner or occupant to depart, shall be deemed
guilty of an offense against the village.
   B.   Notice: A person has received notice from the owner or occupant, within
the meaning of subsection A of this section, if he has been notified
personally, either orally or in writing, or if a printed or written notice
forbidding such entry has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at the main
entrance to such land or the forbidden part thereof. (Ord. 80-2, 1-8-1980)
   C.   Exemption: Subsection A of this section does not apply to any person
living on the land with permission of the owner, or of his agent, having
apparent authority to hire workers on such land and assign them living quarters
or a place of accommodation for living thereon, nor to any person living on
such land at the request of, or by occupancy, lease or other agreement or
arrangement with, the owner or his agent, nor to anyone invited by such person
so living on such land to visit him at the place he is so living that is upon
the land.
   D.   Penalty: Any person convicted of any violation of the provisions of
this section shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each offense shall result in a fine in the
amount not less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). (Ord. 80-2, 1-8-1980;
amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2020-34, 11-23-2020)
6-5-6: POSSESSION OF CANNABIS OR CANNABIS PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Definitions:
    CANNABIS: Includes marijuana, hashish and other substances which are
identified as including any part of the plant Cannabis sativa and including
derivatives or subspecies, such as indica, of all strains of cannabis, whether
growing or not; the seeds thereof and the resin extracted from any part of such
plant; and any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation
of such plant, its seeds or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all
other cannabinol derivatives, including its naturally occurring or
synthetically produced ingredients, whether produced directly or indirectly by
extraction, or independently by means of chemical synthesis or by a combination
of extraction and chemical synthesis; but shall not include the mature stalks
of such plant, fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds
of such plant, and any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture
or preparation of such mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom),
fiber, oil or cake or the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of
germination.
   CANNABIS PARAPHERNALIA: Includes all equipment, products and materials of
any kind which are peculiar to, or marketed for use, or are used, in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or
otherwise introducing into the human body cannabis in violation of the cannabis
control act. The term includes, but is not limited to:
      1.   Kits peculiar to and marketed for use, or used in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing cannabis.
      2.   Isomerization devices peculiar to or marketed for use, or used in
increasing the potency of any species of plant which is cannabis.
      3.   Testing equipment peculiar to, or marketed for private home use in,
or used for, identifying or analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of
cannabis.
      4.   Diluents and adulterants peculiar to, or marketed for use in, or
used for, cutting cannabis or a controlled substance by private persons.
      5.   Objects peculiar to, marketed for use in, or used for ingesting,
inhaling or otherwise introducing cannabis, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil
into the human body including, where applicable, the following terms:
         a.   Water pipes.
         b.   Carburetion tubes and devices.
         c.   Smoking and carburetion masks.
         d.   Carburetor pipes.
         e.   Electric pipes.
         f.   Air driven pipes.
         g.   Chillums.
         h.   Bongs.
         i.   Ice pipes or chillers.
      6.   Any item whose purpose, as announced or described by the seller, is
for use in violation of this section.
   B.   Unlawful Possession by Person Under 21 Years Old: It is unlawful for
any person under the age of twenty-one (21) to knowingly purchase, possess,
use, process, transport, grow, or consume Cannabis and/or Cannabis
Paraphernalia as described herein for the use thereof.
   C.   Exempt Items; Determination:
      1.   Exempt Items:
         a.   Items marketed for the use in the preparation, compounding,
packaging, labeling, or other use of cannabis as an incident to lawful
research, teaching or chemical analysis and not for sale.
         b.   Items marketed for, or historically and customarily used in
connection with, the planting, propagation, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, or inhaling of tobacco or any other lawful substance.
      2.   Considerations: In determining whether or not a particular item is
exempt under this subsection, all other logically relevant factors should be
considered, including the following:
         a.   The general, usual, customary and historical use to which the
item involved has been put.
         b.   Expert evidence concerning the ordinary or customary use of the
item and the effect of any peculiarity in the design or engineering of the item
upon its functioning.
         c.   Any written instructions accompanying the delivery of the item
concerning the purposes or uses to which the item can or may be put.
         d.   Any oral instructions provided by the seller of the item at the
time and place of sale or commercial delivery.
         e.   Any national or local advertising concerning the design, purpose
or use of the item involved, and the entire context in which such advertising
occurs.
         f.   The manner, place and circumstances in which the item was
displayed for sale, as well as any item or items displayed for sale or
otherwise exhibited upon the premises where the sale was made.
         g.   Whether the owner or anyone in control of the object is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products.
         h.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community.
   D.   Violation; Penalties:
      1.   Unlawful Possession of Cannabis:
         a.   Any person under the age of twenty-one (21) who violates this
Section with respect to:
            (1)    Not more than ten (10) grams of any substance containing
cannabis is guilty of a civil law violation punishable by a minimum fine of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) and a maximum fine of two hundred dollars ($200.00).
            (2)   More than ten (10) grams but not more than thirty (30) grams
of any substance containing cannabis is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor.
      2.   Unlawful Possession of Cannabis Paraphernalia:
         a.   A person under the age of twenty-one (21) who knowingly possesses
an item of drug paraphernalia with the intent to use it in ingesting, inhaling,
or otherwise introducing cannabis or other drugs into the human body, or in
preparing any substance for that use, is guilty of a class A misdemeanor and
subject to the penalty provided in section
1-4-1  of this code. Each violation of this Section shall result in a fine in
the amount not less than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
         b.   In determining intent under this section, the proximity of the
paraphernalia or the presence of cannabis or other substances on the drug
paraphernalia may be considered. (Ord. 2010-33, 9-13-2010; amd. 2012 Code; Ord.
2020-34, 11-23-2020; Ord. 2023-22, 4-24-2023)
6-5-7: SALE OR DISTRIBUTION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Prohibitions: It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, as
principal, clerk, agent or servant, to sell or distribute any items, effects,
paraphernalia, accessories, equipment, products or materials of any kind which
are used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting,
producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
introducing into the human body any controlled substance unless otherwise
authorized by local, State, or Federal law to manufacture, possess, or
distribute such items.
   B.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms and
provisions of this section shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1  of this code. Each violation of this Section shall result in a fine in
the amount not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). (Ord. 2010-34, 9-
13-2010; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2020-34, 11-23-2020; Ord. 2023-22, 4-24-2023)
6-5-8: RETAIL THEFT:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the words and phrases
defined in this subsection have the meanings ascribed to them unless a contrary
meaning is clear from the context:
CONCEAL: To "conceal" merchandise means that, although there may be some notice
of its presence, that merchandise is not visible through ordinary observation.
FULL RETAIL VALUE: The merchant's stated or advertised price of the
merchandise.
MERCHANDISE: Any type of tangible personal property.
MERCHANT: An owner or operator of any retail mercantile establishment or any
agent, employee, lessee, consignee, officer, director, franchisee or
independent contractor of such owner or operator.
MINOR: A person who is less than nineteen (19) years of age, is unemancipated
and resides with his parents or legal guardian.
PEACE OFFICER: Any person who, by virtue of his office or public employment, is
vested by law with a duty to maintain public order or to make arrests for
offenses, whether that duty extends to all offenses or is limited to specific
offenses.
PERSON: Any natural person or individual.
PREMISES OF A RETAIL MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT: Includes, but is not limited to,
the retail mercantile establishment, any common use areas in shopping centers
and all parking areas set aside by a merchant or on behalf of a merchant for
the parking of vehicles for the convenience of the patrons of such retail
mercantile establishment.
RETAIL MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT: Any place where merchandise is displayed,
held, stored or offered for sale to the public.
SHOPPING CART: Those pushcarts of the type or types which are commonly provided
by grocery stores, drugstores or other retail mercantile establishments for the
use of the public in transporting commodities in stores and markets and,
incidentally, from the stores to a place outside the store.
THEFT DETECTION DEVICE REMOVER: Any tool or device specifically designed and
intended to be used to remove any theft detection device from any merchandise.
THEFT DETECTION SHIELDING DEVICE: Any laminated or coated bag or device
designed and intended to shield merchandise from detection by an electronic or
magnetic theft alarm sensor.
UNDER RING: To cause the cash register or other sales recording device to
reflect less than the full retail value of the merchandise.
   B.   Offenses:
      1.   A person commits the offense of retail theft when he knowingly:
         a.   Takes possession of, carries away, transfers or causes to be
carried away or transferred, any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered
for sale in a retail mercantile establishment with the intention of retaining
such merchandise or with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of
the possession, use or benefit of such merchandise without paying the full
retail value of such merchandise; or
         b.   Alters, transfers, or removes any label, price tag, marking,
indicia of value or any other markings which aid in determining value affixed
to any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a retail
mercantile establishment and attempts to purchase such merchandise personally
or in consort with another at less than the full retail value with the
intention of depriving the merchant of the full retail value of such
merchandise; or
         c.   Transfers any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for
sale in a retail mercantile establishment from the container in or on which
such merchandise is displayed to any other container with the intention of
depriving the merchant of the full retail value of such merchandise; or
         d.   Under rings with the intention of depriving the merchant of the
full retail value of the merchandise; or
         e.   Removes a shopping cart from the premises of a retail mercantile
establishment without the consent of the merchant given at the time of such
removal with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use or benefit of such cart; or
         f.   Represents to a merchant that he or another is the lawful owner
of property, knowing that such representation is false, and conveys or attempts
to convey that property to a merchant who is the owner of the property in
exchange for money, merchandise credit or other property of the merchant; or
         g.   Uses or possesses any theft detection shielding device or theft
detection device remover with the intention of using such device to deprive the
merchant permanently of the possession, use or benefit of any merchandise
displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a retail mercantile
establishment without paying the full retail value of such merchandise. A
violation of this subsection shall be a class A misdemeanor for a first offense
and a class 4 felony for a second or subsequent offense; or
         h.   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner
and thereby intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property when a lessee of the personal property of another fails to return
it to the owner, or if the lessee fails to pay the full retail value of such
property to the lessor in satisfaction of any contractual provision requiring
such, within ten (10) days after written demand from the owner for its return.
A notice, in writing, given after the expiration of the leasing agreement, by
registered mail, to the lessee at the address given by the lessee and shown on
the leasing agreement shall constitute proper demand.
      2.   A person commits the offense of theft by emergency exit when he or
she commits a retail theft as defined herein and to facilitate the theft, he or
she leaves the retail mercantile establishment by use of a designated emergency
exit.
   C.   Presumptions: If any person:
      1.   Conceals upon his person or among his belongings unpurchased
merchandise displayed, held, sorted or offered for sale in a retail mercantile
establishment; and
      2.   Removes that merchandise beyond the last known station for receiving
payments for that merchandise in that retail mercantile establishment;
such person shall be presumed to have possessed, carried away or transferred
such merchandise with the intention of retaining it or with the intention of
depriving the merchant permanently of the possession, use or benefit of such
merchandise without paying the full retail value of such merchandise.
   D.   Detention:
      1.   Any merchant who has reasonable grounds to believe that a person has
committed retail theft may detain such person, on or off the premises of a
retail mercantile establishment, in a reasonable manner and for a reasonable
length of time for all or any of the following purposes:
         a.   To request identification.
         b.   To verify such identification.
         c.   To make reasonable inquiry as to whether such person has in his
possession unpurchased merchandise and to make reasonable investigation of the
ownership of such merchandise.
         d.   To inform a peace officer of the detention of the person and
surrender that person to the custody of a peace officer.
         e.   In the case of a minor, to immediately make a reasonable attempt
to inform the parents, guardian or other private person interested in the
welfare of that minor and, at the merchant's discretion, a peace officer, of
this detention and to surrender custody of such minor to such person.
      2.   A merchant may make a detention, as permitted herein, off the
premises of a retail mercantile establishment only if such a detention is
pursuant to an immediate pursuit of such person.
      3.   A merchant shall be deemed to have reasonable grounds to make a
detention for the purposes of this subsection if the merchant detains a person
because such person has in his possession either a theft detection shielding
device or a theft detection device remover.
   E.   Affirmative Defense: A detention, as permitted in this section, does
not constitute an arrest or an unlawful restraint, as defined in 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/10-3, nor shall it render the merchant liable to the
persons so detained.
   F.   Value Of Goods: This section shall apply only to goods having a value
or full retail value of three hundred dollars ($300.00) or under.
   G.   Penalty: Any person convicted of any violation of the provisions of
this section shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1  of this code. Each violation of this Section involving goods having a
value or full retail value of fifty ($50.00) or less shall result in a fine in
the amount not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). Each violation of
this Section involving goods having a value or full retail value of greater
than fifty dollars ($50.00) but equal to or less than three hundred dollars
($300.00) shall result in a fine in the amount not less than five hundred
dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 80-2, 1-8-1980; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2012-37, 8-27-
2012; Ord. 2020-34, 11-23-2020; Ord. 2023-22, 4-24-2023)
6-5-9: PUBLIC INDECENCY:
   A.   Definition: As used in this section, the term public place means any
location frequented by the public, or where the public is present or likely to
be present, or where a person may reasonably be expected to be observed by
members of the public. Public places include, but are not limited to, streets,
sidewalks, parks, beaches, business and commercial establishments (whether for
profit or not for profit and whether open to the public at large or where
entrance is limited by a cover charge or membership requirement), hotels,
motels, restaurants, nightclubs, country clubs, cabarets, and meeting
facilities utilized by religious, social, fraternal or similar organizations.
Premises used solely as a private residence, whether permanent or temporary in
nature, shall not be deemed a public place. Public place shall not include
enclosed single sex public restrooms, enclosed single sex functional showers,
locker and/or dressing room facilities, enclosed motel rooms and hotel rooms
designed and intended for sleeping accommodations, doctors' offices, churches,
synagogues or similar places when used for circumcisions, baptisms or similar
religious ceremonies, portions of hospitals and similar places in which nudity
or exposure is necessarily and customarily expected outside of the home; nor
shall it include a place where a person appearing in a state of nudity as a
model in a class operated by: 1) a proprietary school licensed by the state; a
college, junior college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
or 2) a private college or university which maintains and operates educational
programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior college or
university supported entirely or partly by taxation or an accredited private
college.
   B.   Offense; Exemption:
      1.   Any person of the age of seventeen (17) years and upwards who
performs any of the following acts in a public place commits a public
indecency:
         a.   An act of "sexual penetration" or "sexual conduct" as defined in
720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-12.
         b.   A lewd exposure of the body done with intent to arouse or to
satisfy the sexual desire of the person.
      2.   Breast feeding of infants is not an act of public indecency.
   C.   Penalty: A person convicted of the offense of public indecency shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code and may be enjoined from continuing the conduct determined
to be public indecency. Each offense shall result in a fine in the amount not
less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
   D.   Encouraging Offense: A person who knowingly or intentionally encourages
or facilitates another person's commission of the offense of public indecency
shall be deemed to have committed the offense himself.
   E.   Premises Declared A Nuisance: A club, restaurant, theater or other
place where violations of this section occur shall be deemed a public nuisance
which shall be subject to abatement.
   F.   Interpretation:
      1.   This section is patterned after Indiana public indecency statute
upheld by the United States supreme court in Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501
U.S. 560, 111 S.Ct. 2456 (1991). It is the intent of the village that this
section be interpreted in the same manner as said statute.
      2.   It is the intent of the village that the definition of "public
place" set forth in subsection A of this section shall be interpreted to be no
more broad than the definition of "public place" set forth in 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-9 as upheld by the Illinois supreme court in People v.
Garrison, 82 Ill.2d 444, 412 N.E.2d 483 (1980). (Ord. 98-07, 2-23-1998; amd.
2012 Code; Ord. 2020-34, 11-23-2020)
6-5-10: OBSCENE PUBLICATIONS:
Whoever shall bring within the limits of the village for the purpose of sale or
exhibition and shall sell or offer to sell, or shall give away or offer to give
away, or shall in any manner exhibit any obscene, indecent or scandalous book,
pamphlet, newspaper, journal, print, publication, paper or writing of any kind,
or any obscene, indecent or lewd picture, drawing, engraving, card, photograph,
model, cast or instrument shall, on conviction, be punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. Each offense shall result in a fine in the amount not less
than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). (Ord. ch. XX, 2-9-1938; amd. 2012
Code; Ord. 2020-34, 11-23-2020)
6-5-11: DISCHARGING FIREARMS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to fire or discharge any cannon, gun or
fowling piece, pistol or firearm of any description within the limits of the
village without permission in writing of the president, which permission shall
limit the time and place of such firing; provided, however, that this section
shall not apply to persons engaged in trap shooting, nor to persons engaged in
the sport of hunting during the hunting season, all such hunting to be confined
to the open farming lands upon which the person so hunting shall have the
permission of the owner or occupant as required by law. Whoever shall violate
any of the provisions of this section shall be punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. Each offense shall result in a fine in the amount not less
than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). (Ord. ch. XX, 2-9-1938; amd. 2012
Code; Ord. 2020-34, 11-23-2020)
6-5-12: POSTING BILLS AND ADVERTISEMENTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to post any bills,
political posters, or advertisements on any public property, and it shall be
unlawful to post any bill, political posters, or advertisement on any property
without the written consent of the owner thereof. Any person or corporation
violating any provision of this section shall be punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each offense shall result in a fine in the
amount not less than fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord. 69-11, 4-23-1969; amd. 2012
Code; Ord. 2020-34, 11-23-2020)
6-5-13: PUBLIC INTOXICATION:
Whoever shall be drunk or shall be in a state of intoxication in any public
place or in any private home or place so as to cause an offense in connection
therewith may be punishable for public intoxication as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each offense shall result in a fine in the amount not less
than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). (Ord. ch. XX, 2-9-1938; amd. 2012
Code; Ord. 2020-34, 11-23-2020)
6-5-14: SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUGS:
   A.   Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires different meaning:
PRODUCT CONTAINING A SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUG: Any product containing a
synthetic cannabinoid, stimulant or psychedelic/hallucinogen, as those terms
are defined herein such as, but not limited to, the examples of brand names or
identifiers listed on exhibit A attached to the ordinance codified herein and
incorporated herein.
SYNTHETIC CANNABINOID: Any laboratory created compound that functions similar
to the active ingredient in marijuana, tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), including,
but not limited to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic material, compound,
mixture, preparation, substance and their analog (including isomers, esters,
ethers, salts, and salts of isomers) containing a cannabinoid receptor agonist,
or the five (5) classes of synthetic cannabinoids (naphthoylindoles,
naphthoylpyrroles, napthylmethylindenes, phenacetylindoles, or
cyclohexylphenols) such as:
(Not an exclusive list)
AM-2201
JWH-007 (1-pentyl-2-methyl-3-(1 naphthoyl) indole)
JWH-015 ((2-Methyl-1H-indol-3-yl)-1- naphthalenylmethanone)
JWH-018 (1-pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole)
JWH-019 (1-hexyl-3-(naphthalene-1-oyl) indole)
JWH-073 (naphthalene-1-yl-(1-butylindol-3-yl) methanone)
JWH-081 (4-methoxynaphthalen-1-yl-(1- pentylindol-3-yl) methanone)
JWH-098 (4-methoxynaphthalen-1-yl-(1-pentyl-2- methylindol-3-yl) methanone)
JWH-122 (1-Pentyl-3-(4-methyl-1-naphthoyl) indole)
JWH-164 (7-methoxynaphthalen-1-yl-(1- pentylindol-3-yl) methanone)
JWH-200 (1-(2-morpholin-4-ylethyl)indol-3-yl)- naphthalen-1-yl) methanone)
JWH-203 (2-(2-chlorophenyl)-1-(1-pentylindol-3- yl) methanone
JWH-210 (4-ethylnaphthalen-1-yl-(1-pentylindol- 3-yl) methanone
JWH-250 (1-pentyl-3-(2-methoxyphenylacetyl) indole)
JWH-251 (1-pentyl-3-(2-methylphenylacety) indole)
JWH-398 (1-pentyl-3-(4-chloro-1-naphthoyl) indole)
HU-210 ((6aR,10aR)-9-(Hydroxymethyl)-6,6- dimethyl-3-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10,10a- tetrahydrobenzo [c]chromen-1-ol)
HU-211 ((6aS,10aS)-9-(Hydroxymethyl)-6,6- dimethyl-3-(2 methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a,7,10,10a- tetrahydrobenzo [c]chromen-1-ol)
HU-308 ([(1R,2R,5R)-2-[2,6-dimethoxy-4-(2- methyloctan-2-yl)phenyl]-7,7-
dimethyl-4- bicyclo[3.1.1]hept-3-enyl] methanol)
HU-331 ((3-hydroxy-2-[(1R,6R)-3-methyl-6-(1- methylethenyl)-2-cyclohexen-1-yl]-
5-pentyl-2,5- cyclohexadiene-1,4-dione)
CP 55,940 (2-[(1R,3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]-5- (2-methyloctan-2-yl)phenol) and
its homologues
CP 47,497 (2-[(1R,3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]-5- (2-methyloctan-2-yl)phenol) and
its homologues
WIN 55,212-2((R)-(+)-[2,3-Dihydro-5-methyl-3- (4-morpholinylmethyl) pyrrolo
[1,2,3-de)-1,4- benzoxazin-6-yl]-1-nepthalenylmethanone)
RCS-4 ((4-methoxyphenyl)(1-pentyl-1H-indol-3- yl) methanone)
RCS-8 (1-(1-(2-cyclohexylethyl)-1H-indol-3-yl)- 2-(2-methoxyphenyl) ethanone)
Naphthoylpyrroles
SYNTHETIC PSYCHEDELIC/HALLUCINOGEN: Any compound that mimics the effects of any
federally controlled schedule I substance, including, but not limited to, any
quantity of a natural or synthetic material, compound, mixture, preparation,
substance and their analog (including salts, isomers, esters, ethers and salts
of isomers) containing substances which have a psychedelic/hallucinogenic
effect on the central nervous system and/or brain, such as:
2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-methylphenyl)ethanamine (2C-E);
2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-methylphenyl)ethanamine (2C-D);
2-(4-Chloro-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethanamine (2C-C);
2-(4-Iodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethanamine (2C-I);
2-(4-(Ethylthio)-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)ethanamine (2C-T-2);
2-(4-(Isopropylthio)-2,5- dimethoxyphenyl)ethanamine (2C-T-4);
2-(2,5-Dimethoxyphenyl)ethanamine (2C-H);
2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-nitro-phenyl)ethanamine (2C-N);
2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-(n)-propylphenyl)ethanamine (2C-P).
SYNTHETIC STIMULANT: Any compound that mimics the effects of any federally
controlled schedule I substance such as cathinone, methcathinone, MDMA and
MDEA, including, but not limited to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic
material, compound, mixture, preparation, substance and their analog (including
salts, isomers, and salts of isomers) containing substances which have a
stimulant effect on the central nervous system, such as:
3-Fluoromethcathinone
4-Fluoromethcathinone (other name: flephedrone)
3,4-Methylenedioxymethcathinone (other name: methylone, MDMC)
3,4-Methylenedioxypyrovalerone (other name: MDPV)
4-Methylmethcathinone (other names: mephedrone, 4-MMC)
4-Methoxymethcathinone (other names: methedrone, bk-PMMA, PMMC)
4-Ethylmethcathinone (other name: 4-EMC)
Ethcathinone
Beta-keto-N-methylbenzodioxyolylpropylamine (other names: butylone, bk-MDDB)
Napthylpyrovalerone (other names: naphyrone, NRG-1)
N,N-dimethylcathinone (other name: metamfepramone)
Alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name: MDPPP)
4-methoxy-alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name: MOPPP)
3,4-methylenedioxy-alpha- pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name: MDPPP)
Alpha-pyrrolidinovalerophenone (other name: alpha-PVP)
6,7-kihydro-5H-indeno(5,6-d)-1,3-dioxal-6- amine) (other name: MDAI)
Any compound that is structurally derived from 2-amino-1-phenyl-1-propanone by
modification or substitution in any of the following ways:
In the phenyl ring to any extent with alkyl, alkoxy, alkylenedioxy, haloalkyl,
or halide substituents, whether or not further substituted in the phenyl ring
by one or more other univalent substituents;
At the 3-position with an alkyl substituent;
At the nitrogen atom with alkyl, dialkyl, benzyl, or methoxybenzyl groups;
Or by inclusion of the nitrogen atom in a cyclic structure.
   B.   Sale Or Delivery: It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer
for sale or delivery any product containing a synthetic cannabinoid, stimulant
or psychedelic/hallucinogen.
   C.   Possession: It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly possess a
product containing a synthetic cannabinoid, stimulant or psychedelic/
hallucinogen.
   D.   Use: It shall be unlawful for any person to be under the influence of a
synthetic cannabinoid, stimulant or psychedelic/hallucinogen.
   E.   Penalties:
      1.   Any person found to be in violation of subsection B of this section
shall be subject to a fine of not less than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) and not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each violation
thereof.
      2.   Any person found to be in violation of subsection C or D of this
section shall be subject to a fine of not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) and not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each violation
thereof.
      3.   Each violation of this section, or every day a violation continues
to exist, shall constitute a new and separate violation. (Ord. 2012-08, 1-23-
2012)
6-5-15: DRONES/SMALL UNMANNED AIRCRAFT:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section:
AIRCRAFT: Any contrivance invented, used or designed to navigate or fly in the
air.
DRONE: See definition of small unmanned aircraft.
HOBBY OR RECREATIONAL PURPOSES: A pursuit engaged in for relaxation, and not
for business purposes and not for compensation or hire.
OPEN AIR ASSEMBLY UNIT: Any structure, enclosed area or other demarcated space
used for the assembly of persons in the open air, including, but not limited
to, amusement parks, stadiums, athletic fields, automotive speed ways, aviation
fields, band stands, beach enclosures, grandstands, observation platforms,
outdoor public swimming pools, outdoor theaters, race tracks, reviewing stands,
street festivals or parade routes.
OPERATE: To pilot, steer, direct, fly or manage a small unmanned aircraft
through the air whether from within the aircraft or remotely. The term
"operate" includes managing or initiating a computer system that pilots,
steers, directs, flies or manages a small unmanned aircraft.
PUBLIC AIRCRAFT: The meaning ascribed to the term in section 40102 of title 49
of the United States Code.
SMALL UNMANNED AIRCRAFT: An aircraft that: 1) is operated without the
possibility of direct human intervention from within or on the aircraft, and 2)
weighs less than fifty five (55) pounds at the time of the operation, including
the weight of any payload or field. The term "small unmanned aircraft" does not
include "toy aircraft" or "public aircraft" as defined herein.
SURVEILLANCE: The gathering, without permission and in a manner that is
offensive to a reasonable person, of visual images, physical impressions, sound
recordings, data or other information involving the private, personal, business
or familial activities of another person, business or entity, or that otherwise
intrudes upon the privacy, solitude or seclusion of another person, business or
entity, regardless of whether a physical trespass onto real property owned,
leased or otherwise lawfully occupied by such other person, business or other
entity, or into the airspace above real property owned, leased or otherwise
lawfully occupied by such other person, business or other entity, occurs in
connection with such surveillance.
TOY AIRCRAFT: 1. A glider or hand-tossed small unmanned aircraft that is not
designed for and is incapable of sustained flight; or
      2.   A small unmanned aircraft that is capable of sustained flight and is
controlled by means of a physical attachment, such as a string or wire.
VILLAGE AIRSPACE: The airspace above the land, water and waterways within the
jurisdiction of the Village.
WEAPON: Any instrument, article or substance that, under the circumstances in
which it is used, attempted to be used or threatened to be used, is readily
capable of causing death or serious physical injury.
   B.   Operating Regulations: Except as otherwise provided in subsection C of
this section, operation of the small unmanned aircraft shall only occur in
public areas where designated and no person shall operate any small unmanned
aircraft in Village airspace:
      1.   Except for hobby or recreational purposes only and in conformity
with this section;
      2.   Directly over any person who is not involved in the operation of the
small unmanned aircraft, without such person's consent;
      3.   Over property that the operator does not own, without the property
owner's consent, and subject to any restrictions that the property owner may
place on such operation;
      4.   At an altitude higher than four hundred feet (400') above ground
level;
      5.   Outside the visual line of sight of the operator. The operator shall
use his or her own natural vision (which includes vision corrected by standard
eyeglasses or contact lenses) to maintain at all times an unobstructed view of
the small unmanned aircraft, without the use of vision-enhancing devices, such
as binoculars, night vision goggles, powered vision magnifying devices, goggles
designed to provide a "first person view" from the model or similar devices;
      6.   Within five (5) miles of any airport;
      7.   In a manner that interferes with, or fails to give way to, any
manned aircraft;
      8.   Between eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.;
      9.   Over private property or residential areas;
      10.   Whenever weather conditions impair the operator's ability to
operate the small unmanned aircraft safely;
      11.   Over any open air assembly unit, school, school yard, hospital,
place of worship, prison, police station, or fire station without the property
owner's consent, and subject to any restrictions that the property owner may
place on such operation;
      12.   Within five hundred feet (500') of any water intake facility or any
electric generating facility, substation or control center, or within one
hundred feet (100') of any electric transmission facility, or within twenty
five feet (25') of any electric distribution facility or of any overhead wire,
cable, conveyor or similar equipment for the transmission of sounds or signal,
or of heat, light or power, or data, upon or along any public way within the
Village, without the facility or equipment owner's consent, and subject to any
restrictions that the facility or equipment owner may place on such operation;
      13.   For the purpose of conducting surveillance, unless expressly
permitted by law;
      14.   While under the influence of alcohol, or other drug or drugs,
intoxicating compound or compounds or any combination thereof, as those terms
are defined in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-501, as amended;
      15.   That is equipped with a firearm or other weapon;
      16.   With intent to use such small unmanned aircraft or anything
attached to it to cause harm to persons or property;
      17.   In a reckless or careless manner; or
      18.   In violation of any Federal or State law.
   C.   Construction Of Section:
      1.   Operations Authorized By The FAA - Exception: Notwithstanding the
prohibitions set forth in this section, nothing in this section shall be
construed to prohibit, limit or otherwise restrict any person who is authorized
by the Federal Aviation Administration to operate a small unmanned aircraft in
Village airspace, pursuant to section 333 of the FAA Modernization and Reform
Act of 2012 or a certificate of waiver, certificate of authorization or
airworthiness certificate under section 44704 of title 49 of the United States
Code or other Federal Aviation Administration grant of authority for a specific
flight operation(s), from conducting such operation(s) in accordance with the
authority granted by the Federal Aviation Administration.
      2.   Operations Prohibited By The FAA - Clarification: Nothing in this
section shall be construed to authorize the operation of any small unmanned
aircraft in Village airspace in violation of any Federal Statute or rules
promulgated thereunder, including, but not limited to, any temporary flight
restrictions or notices to airmen issued by the Federal Aviation
Administration.
      3.   Operations Authorized By The State Of Illinois - Exception:
Notwithstanding the prohibitions set forth in this section, nothing in this
section shall be construed to prohibit the use of a drone by a law enforcement
agency in accordance with section 15 of the Freedom From Drone Surveillance
Act, codified at 725 Illinois Compiled Statutes 167/1 et seq., or its successor
provision.
   D.   Violation - Penalty: Any person who violates this section or any rule
promulgated thereunder may be fined up to five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each
day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense.
   E.   Seizure For Unlawful Use: If the Mayor, Chief of Police, or their duly
authorized enforcement officers or designees have a reasonable basis to believe
that any small unmanned aircraft is or has been operating in violation of this
section, said small unmanned aircraft may be seized by such duly authorized
enforcement official, followed by an opportunity for an administrative hearing,
with notice to the owner within seven (7) calendar days of such seizure, for
the purpose of reviewing the appropriateness of the seizure, and shall be held
by the Village until such time that the owner of such small unmanned aircraft
reimburses the Village for the actual cartage costs incurred in connection with
the seizure and pays to the Village twenty dollars ($20.00) for each day, or
part of a day, that the small unmanned aircraft is in storage. If criminal
charges involving the use, condition or operation of the small unmanned
aircraft are pending, the small unmanned aircraft shall be held until
disposition of the criminal charges. If it is determined at an administrative
hearing, by a preponderance of evidence, that the seized small unmanned
aircraft was not operated in violation of this section, such small unmanned
aircraft shall be returned to its owner without charge. (Ord. 2017-34, 8-28-
2017)
CHAPTER 6
MINORS
SECTION:
6-6-1: Curfew
6-6-2: Vandalism
6-6-1: CURFEW:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words shall be
defined as follows:
CURFEW HOURS: 1. Between one minute past twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. on Saturday;
      2.   Between one minute past twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. on Sunday; and
      3.   Between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sunday to Thursday,
inclusive, and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the following day.
EMERGENCY: Any unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for such immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to,
a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business operated for profit to
which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
GUARDIAN: 1. A person who, by court order, is the guardian of the person of a
minor; or
      2.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
MINOR: Any person under seventeen (17) years of age.
PARENT: A person who is:
      1.   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent of another person;
or
      2.   At least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized by a parent or
guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
REMAIN: 1. To linger or stay; or
      2.   To fail to leave the premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of death
or that causes death, disfigurement, or protracted loss or impairment of the
function of any bodily member or organ.
   B.   Offenses:
      1.   A minor commits an offense if he or she remains in any public place
or on the premises of any establishment during curfew hours.
      2.   A parent or guardian of a minor or other person in custody or
control of a minor commits an offense if he or she knowingly permits the minor
to remain in any public place or on the premises of any establishment during
curfew hours.
   C.   Defenses: It is a defense to prosecution under subsection B of this
section that the minor was:
      1.   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian or other person in
custody or control of the minor;
      2.   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      3.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      4.   Engaged in an employment activity or going to or returning home from
an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      5.   Involved in an emergency;
      6.   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor's presence;
      7.   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental
agency, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor, or going to or returning home from, without any
detour or stop, an official school, religious, or other recreational activity
supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental agency, a
civic organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor;
      8.   Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      9.   Married or had been married or is an emancipated minor under the
emancipation of minors act 1 .
   D.   Enforcement: Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a
law enforcement officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for
being in the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an
arrest under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an
offense has occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances,
no defense in subsection C of this section is present.
   E.   Penalties:
      1.   A person convicted of a violation of any provision of this section
shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code; except, that neither a person who has been made a ward of
the court under the juvenile court act of 1987 2 , nor that person's legal
guardian, shall be subject to the penalty. Each violation shall result in a
fine in the amount not less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
      2.   In addition to or instead of the penalty imposed by subsection (E)
(1) of this section, the court may order a parent, legal guardian, or other
person convicted of a violation of subsection B of this section to perform
community service as determined by the court; except, that the legal guardian
of a person who has been made a ward of the court under the juvenile court act
of 1987 may not be ordered to perform community service. The dates and times
established for the performance of community service by the parent, legal
guardian, or other person convicted of a violation of subsection B of this
section shall not conflict with the dates and times that the person is employed
in his or her regular occupation. (2012 Code; amd. Ord. 2020-34, 11-23-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. 750 ILCS 30/1 et seq.
2 2. 705 ILCS 401/1-1 et seq.
6-6-2: VANDALISM:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the words and phrases
"legal guardian", "minor" and "vandalism", whenever used herein, shall have the
meanings as are ascribed to them by this subsection:
LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian or given custody of a minor by a
circuit court of the state, but the term does not include a person appointed
guardian or given custody of a minor under the juvenile court act.
MINOR: A person who is above the age of eleven (11) years but not yet nineteen
(19) years of age.
VANDALISM: The wilful or malicious breaking, defacing, injuring or destroying
any property, whether owned by the state, county, village, or any other
governmental body, or which is owned by any private person or corporate entity.
   B.   Vandalism Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to commit
vandalism within the village.
   C.   Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian: A parent or legal guardian of an
unemancipated minor residing with such parent or legal guardian shall be
presumed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, to have failed to
exercise proper parental responsibility, and said minor shall be deemed to have
committed the acts described in this subsection with the knowledge and
permission of the parent or guardian, in violation of this section, upon the
occurrence of the following described events:
      1.   An unemancipated minor residing with said parent or legal guardian
shall either be adjudicated to be in violation of any ordinance, law or statute
prohibiting wilful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or property,
or shall have incurred nonjudicial sanctions from another official agency
resulting from an admission of guilt of violation of any ordinance, law or
statute prohibiting wilful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or
property; and
      2.   Said parent or legal guardian shall have received a written notice
thereof, substantially in the form shown in appendix I attached to ordinance
76-44, either by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or by
personal service, with a certificate of personal service returned, from the
village police department following said adjudication or nonjudicial sanction;
and
      3.   If at any time following receipt of the notice set forth in
subsection C2 of this section, said minor is either adjudicated to be in
violation of any ordinance, law or statute as described in subsection C1 of
this section, or shall have incurred nonjudicial sanctions from another
official agency resulting from an admission of guilt of violation of any
ordinance, law or statute as described in subsection C1 of this section.
   D.   Penalty: Any person convicted of any violation of the provisions of
this section shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each offense shall result in a fine in the amount not less
than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). (Ord. 76-44, 7-26-1976; amd. 2012
Code; Ord. 2020-34, 11-23-2020)
CHAPTER 7
GRAFFITI
SECTION:
6-7-1: Definitions
6-7-2: Prohibitions
6-7-3: Removal Requirements
6-7-4: Rewards
6-7-5: Penalties
6-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
GRAFFITI: In addition to its usual and customary meaning, the term graffiti
shall mean any drawing, carving, or painting which shall include, without
limitation, any letter, numeral, figure, emblem, insignia, picture, character,
spectacle, delineation, announcement, word, phrase, diagram, symbol, sketch,
inscription or other representation.
OWNER: Shall include, without limitation, that person or persons or legal
entity which is the current titleholder of the property. (Ord. 96-07, 1-22-
1996)
6-7-2: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful, and it is hereby declared a nuisance, to place
graffiti or permit graffiti to remain upon any public or private property
including, without limitation, any sidewalk or street, tree, lamppost, utility
box, utility pole, stanchion, postal mail receptacle, sign, hydrant, fence,
door, wall, window, garage or enclosure, vehicle, bridge, or pier.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any owner, tenant, or occupant of any property
to place or give permission to place on such property, whether real or
personal, which is in public view, any graffiti which incites violence by
reference to gang or criminal activity, depicts or expresses "obscenity" as
defined by the Statutes of the State of Illinois, 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-20, or contains defamatory material about a public or private
person. (Ord. 96-07, 1-22-1996)
6-7-3: REMOVAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Owner Responsibility:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the owner of any property upon which
graffiti is present to remove, eradicate or otherwise eliminate such graffiti
within ten (10) days from the date such graffiti has been placed upon the
owner's property. It shall also be the duty of the owner of any such property
upon which graffiti is present to promptly report the existence of the graffiti
to the Police Department. This report to the department may be either in
writing or by telephonic message. The notice shall advise as to the location of
the graffiti. (Ord. 96-07, 1-22-1996)
      2.   The Director of Public Works may grant in writing to an owner an
additional period of time to remove graffiti if the owner presents evidence of
one of the following conditions: (Ord. 96-07, 1-22-1996; amd. 2012 Code; Ord.
2017-42, 11-13-2017)
         a.   Weather conditions make removal a substantial burden; or
         b.   The necessary chemicals for removal are not readily available,
but that the owner is seeking to obtain such chemicals; or
         c.   The physical condition of the owner makes immediate removal a
substantial burden to the owner; or
         d.   Such other condition which makes immediate removal an undue
hardship to the owner.
   B.   Removal By Village:
      1.   The Village may remove the graffiti but is not obligated to
undertake to do so. If the Village determines, in the discretion of the
Village, that the equipment and other resources available to the Village are
not appropriate for removal of the particular graffiti, the owner of the
property shall remain responsible for the removal, eradication or elimination,
including the placing of paint or covering over the graffiti.
      2.   The Village may remove graffiti from private property subject to the
following conditions:
         a.   The owner has reported to the Police Department the existence of
the graffiti; and
         b.   The owner has signed a written authorization giving permission to
the Village to remove the graffiti and releasing and holding harmless the
Village from any claims for any damage to person or property resulting from the
Village undertaking to remove the graffiti; and (Ord. 96-07, 1-22-1996)
         c.   The Director of Public Works has determined that the Village has
the capability, through the use of equipment owned by the Village, to remove
the graffiti. (Ord. 96-07, 1-22-1996; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
6-7-4: REWARDS:
   A.   The Village does hereby offer a reward of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
to any person who, without having an affirmative duty to report the existence
of graffiti, supplies information leading to the arrest and conviction of any
person violating the provisions of this chapter. In the event of multiple
contributors of information, the reward amount shall be divided by the Village
in the manner it shall deem appropriate.
   B.   Claims for rewards under this section shall be filed through the Office
of the Chief of Police who will make a recommendation to the Village
Administrator. Each claim shall:
      1.   State the date, location and kind of property involved.
      2.   Identify the name of the person who was convicted or admitted to the
violation of this chapter.
      3.   Identify the court and date upon which the conviction was entered or
the place and the date of the administrative finding of guilt.
   C.   All claims for rewards must be approved by the Village Administrator.
(Ord. 96-07, 1-22-1996)
6-7-5: PENALTIES:
   A.   General Penalty; Other Sanctions: Upon a finding of guilty for
violation of the provisions of this chapter, there shall be imposed a penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each offense shall result in a fine in the amount not less
than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). In addition to any other relief, the
Village may seek an injunction, or mandatory injunction, or a court order
directing the removal of any graffiti and for the court order to include an
award of attorney fees.
   B.   Parental Responsibility: Parents of any person under the age of
eighteen (18) years shall be responsible for any violations of this chapter
committed by their child. This shall include payment for the costs of removal
of graffiti as well as the cost for any damages incurred as a result of the
actions of their child in violating the terms of this chapter. The parents
shall also be responsible for any fines, restitution amounts, attorney fees and
reimbursement of costs to the Village.
   C.   Community Service: Upon a finding that a person is guilty of violating
any provisions of this chapter, the Village may request as relief, in addition
to any other penalty, that the person found guilty perform community service
work as determined by the Village Administrator.
   D.   Interpretation: For purpose of this chapter, "incurring nonjudicial
sanctions from an official agency" shall also be deemed a "conviction". (Ord.
96-07, 1-22-1996; Ord. 2020-34, 11-23-2020)
CHAPTER 8
FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES
SECTION:
6-8-1: Fireworks
6-8-2: Nitroglycerine And TNT
6-8-3: Rules Of State Fire Marshal Govern
6-8-4: Penalties
6-8-1: FIREWORKS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    FIREWORKS: Means and includes any explosive composition, or any substance
or combination of substances, or any article prepared for the purpose of
producing a visible or audible effect of a temporary exhibitional nature by
explosion, combustion, deflagration or detonation, and shall include blank
cartridges, toy cannons in which explosives are used, the type of balloons
which require fire underneath to propel the same, firecrackers, torpedoes,
skyrockets, roman candles, bombs or other fireworks of like construction and
any fireworks containing any explosive compound; or any tablets or other device
containing any explosive substance, or containing combustible substances
producing visual effects. The term "fireworks" shall not include snake or glow
worm pellets; smoke devices; sparklers; trick noisemakers known as "party
poppers", "booby traps", "snappers", "trick matches", "cigarette loads" and
"auto burglar alarms"; toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other devices in
which paper or plastic caps containing twenty five hundredths grain or less of
explosive compound is used, provided they are so constructed that the hand
cannot come in contact with the cap when in place for the explosion; and toy
pistol paper or plastic caps which contain less than twenty five hundredths
grain of explosive mixture.
SUPERVISED PUBLIC PYROTECHNICAL DISPLAY: A pyrotechnical display sponsored by a
public taxing body and conducted by an experienced pyrotechnician.
   B.   Possession, Sale, Distribution Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly possess, or store
any fireworks anywhere in the village.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to offer for sale, sell at
retail, expose for sale, loan, or give away any fireworks anywhere in the
village.
   C.   Discharge Prohibited; Exception: It shall be unlawful for any person to
discharge anywhere in the village any of the articles enumerated in subsection
A of this section, definition of "fireworks"; provided, however, that the
president and board of trustees may issue a permit for the discharge of
fireworks and for supervised public pyrotechnical displays as hereinafter
provided.
   D.   Fireworks Displays:
      1.   Application For Permit; Nontransferability:
         a.   Application for permits for the discharge of fireworks or for
supervised public pyrotechnical displays shall be in writing and shall state
the full name of the person, including middle initial, place of residence and
date of birth, the place where it is proposed to give such public display of
fireworks, what experience the applicant has had, if any, in the discharge of
fireworks, and the full name and date of birth of the pyrotechnician and the
types of fireworks being exploded, such application being sworn to before a
notary public or other officer authorized by law to administer oaths.
         b.   Applications for permits shall be made in writing at least
fifteen (15) business days in advance of the date of the display. After such
privilege shall have been granted, sales, possession, use and distribution of
fireworks for such display shall be lawful for that purpose only. No permit
granted hereunder shall be transferable.
      2.   Eligibility For Permit: Applications for permits will be granted to
public taxing bodies only and not to private individuals, private corporations,
or civic organizations.
      3.   Insurance Requirements: No pyrotechnical exhibition shall be held
unless the proprietor thereof has in force a public liability insurance policy
in the amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00). A certificate showing
such insurance shall be filed with the clerk at least five (5) days prior to
such exhibitions.
      4.   Inspection Of Premises; Issuance Of Permit; Fee: The president
shall, upon receipt of such applicant's statement, refer the same to the chief
of police and the chief of the fire protection district, who shall have an
inspection made of the premises at the location given in said application where
it is proposed to give such public display of fireworks, and if, in the
judgment of the chief of police and the chief of the fire protection district,
it would not be hazardous to surrounding property or dangerous to any person or
persons to permit such public display of fireworks at such location, they shall
approve such application and return the same to the president and board,
whereupon the president shall issue a permit, giving the applicant permission
to conduct such public display of fireworks. The size and explosive power of
the fireworks used, in proximity to residential or commercial buildings, the
experience and safety history of the pyrotechnician and fireworks provider, the
ability to keep the public outside the restricted area, and the ability of
emergency equipment to access the site if an emergency arises will be just some
of the issues considered in evaluating the application. Such permits shall
designate the kinds and quantities of fireworks to be used at such public
display, and no other kinds and no greater quantities of fireworks than therein
specified shall be used at such public display.
      5.   Protected Areas: No fireworks shall be discharged, ignited or
exploded at any point in the village within six hundred feet (600') of any
hospital, asylum, infirmary, nursing home or nursing facility. (Ord. 91-47, 9-
23-1991; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2020-34, 11-23-2020)
6-8-2: NITROGLYCERINE AND TNT:
It shall be unlawful to possess, keep, store, offer for sale, sell at retail,
expose for sale, loan, or give away any nitroglycerine or the explosive
commonly known as "TNT" in the village in any quantities, excepting for
medicinal or laboratory purposes, and for such purposes, no more than one-
fourth (1/4) ounce shall be stored in any one building or premises. (Ord. 91-
47, 9-23-1991; amd. Ord. 2020-34, 11-23-2020)
6-8-3: RULES OF STATE FIRE MARSHAL GOVERN:
All explosives must be kept, stored, transported, or discharged in accordance
with the rules of the state fire marshal, subject to the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 91-47, 9-23-1991)
6-8-4: PENALTIES:
Whoever fails to comply with or violates any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Unless otherwise provided herein, each violation of this
Chapter shall result in a fine in the amount not less than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00). Each violation of Section
6-8-1(B)(1) shall result in a fine in the amount not less than one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00). Moreover, the village shall have the right to seek
equitable legal relief to enforce this chapter and to protect the public safety
and welfare. (Ord. 91-47, 9-23-1991; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2020-34, 11-23-2020)
CHAPTER 9
PUBLIC SAFETY EMPLOYEE BENEFITS ACT
SECTION:
6-9-1: Purpose
6-9-2: Administrative Hearing Officer
6-9-3: Initiation Of Administrative Hearing Procedure
6-9-4: Administrative Hearing
6-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide a fair and efficient method of
determining the eligibility of an employee for the benefits enumerated under
the public safety employee benefits act 1  through the process of an
administrative hearing. All benefits provided employees pursuant to the public
safety employee benefits act (act) will be consistent with the act. (Ord. 2013-
35, 11-25-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 820 ILCS 320/1 et seq.
6-9-2: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING OFFICER:
The system of the administrative hearing shall be comprised of a hearing
officer whose power and authority and limitations are as follows:
   A.   Power Of The Hearing Officer: The hearing officer shall have all of the
powers granted to him under common law relative to the conduct of an
administrative hearing including the power to:
      1.   Preside over all village hearings involving the public safety
employee benefits act 1 ;
      2.   Administer oaths;
      3.   Hear testimony taken under oath or affirmation and accept evidence
that is relevant to the issue of eligibility under the public safety employee
benefits act 2 ;
      4.   Issue subpoenas to secure attendance of witnesses and the production
of relevant papers or documents upon the request of the parties or their
representatives;
      5.   Rule upon objections in the admissibility of evidence and other
motions, including motions to intervene by interested parties;
      6.   Preserve and authenticate the record of the hearing and all exhibits
in evidence introduced at the hearing;
      7.   Issue a determination based on the evidence presented at the
hearing, after entertaining arguments in either oral or written format, at the
hearing officer's discretion;
      8.   The determination shall be in writing and shall include a written
finding of fact, decision and order.
   B.   Appointment Of Hearing Officer: The village president, with the advice
and consent of the board of trustees, is hereby authorized to appoint a person
to hold the position of a hearing officer for any hearing that shall be
scheduled by the village.
   C.   Selection Of The Hearing Officer: In making the selection of a hearing
officer, the village president shall consider all pertinent information
including, at a minimum, and as required by statute:
      1.   The candidate's ability to competently perform the services as set
forth herein;
      2.   The candidate's background and service performance data made
available to the village president on file with the village or otherwise
obtained by the village;
      3.   The candidate must be an attorney licensed to practice law in the
state of Illinois for at least three (3) years prior to appointment and have
knowledge of, and experience in, employment and labor law, general civil
procedure, the rules of evidence, and administrative practice. (Ord. 2013-35,
11-25-2013)
 
Notes
1 2. 820 ILCS 320/1 et seq.
2 3. 820 ILCS 320/1 et seq.
6-9-3: INITIATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING PROCEDURE:
The system of administrative hearings for determination of eligibility for
benefits under the public safety employee benefits act 1  shall be initiated by
the serving of a written notice on the village administrator by any sworn
police department employee stating the following in full detail:
   A.   The nature of the employee's claim giving full particulars thereof,
i.e., date, time, place, nature of injury;
   B.   Any other factual circumstances surrounding said incident giving rise
to said claim;
   C.   A request for the benefits enumerated under the public safety employee
benefits act 2 ; and
   D.   A request for the scheduling of a hearing for the eligibility to
receive said benefits. (Ord. 2013-35, 11-25-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 820 ILCS 320/1 et seq.
2 2. 820 ILCS 320/1 et seq.
6-9-4: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING:
An administrative hearing shall be held to adjudicate and determine whether the
subject sworn police department employee is eligible for benefits under the
public safety employee benefits act 1 . If the employee is found eligible, the
employee benefits shall be consistent with the act.
   A.   Time And Date: Hearings shall be held on the date, time and place as
established by the village with appropriate notice served upon the subject
sworn police department employee.
   B.   Record: All hearings shall be attended by a certified court reporter
and a transcript of all proceedings shall be made by the certified court
reporter. The village shall pay for the court reporter's attendance fee and any
copy of the transcript desired by the hearing officer and/or the village, but
if the subject sworn police department employee desires a copy of the
transcript, it must be paid for by the subject sworn police department
employee.
   C.   Procedures: The village and the subject sworn police department
employee shall be entitled to representation by counsel at said hearing and may
present witnesses, testimony and documents, may cross examine opposing
witnesses, and may request the issuance of subpoenas to compel the appearance
of relevant witnesses or the production of relevant documents. Each party shall
bear the cost of its own counsel and witnesses.
   D.   Evidence: Insofar as is practical, the rules of evidence as set forth
in the Illinois code of civil procedure shall apply, however, the hearing
officer is not required to strictly follow the rules of evidence.
   E.   Final Determination: The determination by the hearing officer of
whether the petitioning public safety employee is eligible for the benefits
under the public safety employee benefits act 2  shall constitute a final
determination for the purpose of judicial review under the common law writ of
certiorari. (Ord. 2013-35, 11-25-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 820 ILCS 320/1 et seq.
2 2. 820 ILCS 320/1 et seq.
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE; MISCELLANEOUS TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Traffic Code
7-1-2: Equipment To Comply With State Law
7-1-3: Turning Movements
7-1-4: Vehicles Upon Certain Public And Private Areas
7-1-5: Equestrians
7-1-6: Vehicle Burglar Alarms
7-1-7: Deposit Of Substances From Vehicles Onto Streets Prohibited
7-1-8: Temporary Regulatory And Advisory Signs (Emergency)
7-1-1: TRAFFIC CODE:
   A.   Adoption Of State Vehicle Code: The Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes, as amended from time to time, is hereby adopted by reference
to be applied within the corporate limits of the village to the extent
permitted by law and to the extent that its subject matter is not regulated by
the village code or inconsistent with any lawful provisions of the village
code.
   B.   Interpretation: All references in sections of the Illinois vehicle code
to "this code" shall be to sections of the Illinois vehicle code. References to
a state employee or official may be to a corresponding village employee or
official where such reference is applicable or necessary. Any provisions of the
Illinois vehicle code adopted herein may be cited by placing "7-1" before the
appropriate Illinois vehicle code section, i.e., 7-1-11-501, Bloomingdale
village code.
   C.   Offenses: The burden of proof for any offense classified as a "petty"
offense or "business" offense in the Illinois vehicle code adopted herein shall
be by a preponderance of the evidence. Offenses classified therein as
"misdemeanor" offenses shall be proven beyond a reasonable doubt. (Ord. 97-38,
8-11-1997)
7-1-2: EQUIPMENT TO COMPLY WITH STATE LAW:
No person shall operate a vehicle in the village unless it is equipped with all
the equipment required by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-101 et seq., and
all such equipment is in good working order. Any failure to comply with the
requirements of this section shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each violation shall result in a fine in the amount not
less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). (Ord. 76-49, 7-26-1976; amd.
2012 Code; amd. Ord. 2020-34, 11-23-2020)
7-1-3: TURNING MOVEMENTS:
   A.   Turning Around; U-Turns: The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such
vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction, upon any street or part of
any street where such turns are permitted, at any point closer than one hundred
feet (100') to any street intersection nor when such turn cannot be made in
safety and without interfering with other traffic.
   B.   Obedience To No Turn Signs: Whenever authorized signs are erected
indicating that no right or left turn or turn in the opposite direction is
permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of any such
sign. (Ord. 76-49, 7-26-1976)
7-1-4: VEHICLES UPON CERTAIN PUBLIC AND PRIVATE AREAS:
   A.   Definition: The term "motor vehicle", as used in this section, is
defined as every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power,
devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks and "snowmobiles" as
defined in the snowmobile registration safety act.
   B.   Sidewalks: No person shall drive any motor vehicle upon a sidewalk or
sidewalk area, except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
   C.   Certain Engine Powered Vehicles:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, operate or be in control
of a motorized skateboard, a snow vehicle, go-ped, go-cart, minibike, motorized
scooter or any similar engine powered vehicle or device upon any public or
private street, highway, parking lot, sidewalk, school ground, bike path or any
other public property within the village except as may be authorized by the
village in areas other than the streets, highways, or sidewalks. For the
purpose of this subsection, a "motorized skateboard, scooter or go-ped" is
defined as a board or other horizontal surface having wheels which are operated
by some type of motor, and the board is generally designed to hold one person.
      2.   No person shall permit the operation of such a motor vehicle to be
operated upon or within any of the prohibited areas.
      3.   Motor vehicles, as defined in subsection C1 of this section, are
authorized to be operated upon any street or highway within the village,
provided the vehicle can be and is licensed by the state of Illinois.
      4.   This subsection does not apply to any vehicle moved exclusively by
human power nor to any motorized wheelchair.
      5.   The operation of such a motor vehicle may be permitted on private
property with the permission of the property owner.
   D.   Parks, School Grounds, Public Areas: It shall be unlawful for any
person to operate any motor vehicle or any motor driven device, in addition to
those prohibited by subsection C of this section, in or upon any park, parkway,
school grounds, or other public area not designed or improved or intended to
accommodate the regular travel of motor vehicles, except:
      1.   In cases of emergency, if the presence of the motor vehicle on the
roadway would constitute a hazard, or when directed by a police officer; or
      2.   Motor vehicles operated by the village or person under a contract
with the village while in the normal performance of his work.
   E.   Toy Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any person upon skates, a
coaster, sled or other toy vehicle to go upon any roadway other than at a
crosswalk. (Ord. 2002-24, 6-24-2002)
   F.   Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian: The parent or legal guardian of
any person under the age of sixteen (16) years who operates any motor vehicle
in violation of subsection B, C, D or E of this section shall be liable for any
and all damages resulting from that individual's operation of a "motor
vehicle", as that term is defined in subsection A of this section, in violation
of this section. Additionally, the parent or legal guardian of any person under
the age of sixteen (16) years who operates any motor vehicle in violation of
subsection B, C, D or E of this section shall be liable for any fine assessed
for violation of this section.
   G.   Penalty: A violation of this section shall subject the violator or the
parent or legal guardian of a violator less than sixteen (16) years of age to
the penalty provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each and every violation of this section. (Ord. 2002-24,
6-24-2002; amd. 2012 Code)
   H.   Confiscation Of Vehicles: Any vehicle operated by any person in
violation of this section may be seized by the arresting officer and held as
evidence in the trial of a person charged with violating this section and may
not be released to the owner or parent or legal guardian of an owner until the
completion of the trial of the cause arising out of the violation of this
section. (Ord. 2002-24, 6-24-2002)
7-1-5: EQUESTRIANS:
The driver of any vehicle shall yield the right of way to a person riding a
horse on bridle paths where such bridle paths cross roadways, when signaled to
do so by the raising of the arm of the rider. Nothing in this section shall
relieve an equestrian from the duty of exercising due care and of obeying
official traffic control devices. (Ord. 76-49, 7-26-1976)
7-1-6: VEHICLE BURGLAR ALARMS:
   A.   Activation Time Limited: In any vehicle equipped with a continuous or
intermittent audible signal device which acts as a burglar alarm, such device
shall be limited in operation to ten (10) minutes after activation and shall be
incapable of further operation until reset to become active again.
   B.   Automatic Shutoff Required: No person shall install in or maintain or
operate any vehicle within the village with audible signal device for use as a
burglar alarm unless the device is equipped with an automatic shutoff mechanism
to terminate the alarm sound after ten (10) minutes and an automatic reset
mechanism to reengage the alarm for further operation.
   C.   Written Warning; Fine; Exception: Any person who violates this section
shall first receive a written warning notice from the village. If any such
person should violate this section on a subsequent occasion within any three
(3) month period, that person shall be subject to a fine of twenty five dollars
($25.00) for each such offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. It shall not be a
violation of this section for a vehicle alarm to operate for a period of time
in excess of ten (10) minutes if the device is designed to and has been
triggered by the unauthorized opening of the hood, trunk or door of the vehicle
or by breaking of a window.
   D.   Nuisance Declared; Abatement: Any vehicle burglar alarm which is
audible for more than ten (10) minutes is hereby declared a public nuisance
which may be abated by the removal of such vehicle to an impound lot in
accordance with the following procedure:
      1.   Prior to removing the vehicle from its location, the officer(s)
investigating the activated alarm shall attempt to contact the owner of the
vehicle by securing the name and address of the registered owner of the vehicle
from the Office of the Secretary of State and using said information to
telephone or directly contact the vehicle owner.
      2.   If the investigating officer(s) is (are) not able to contact the
vehicle owner to have the alarm deactivated at the site, the officer shall have
the vehicle removed to an impound lot.
      3.   If telephonic or personal contact is not made with the vehicle owner
within twenty four (24) hours after it is towed, a certified letter, return
receipt requested, shall be mailed to the vehicle owner. Upon contact with the
vehicle owner after the vehicle has been removed to the impound lot, the
vehicle owner shall be informed as to where the vehicle can be retrieved and
that he/she is entitled to a post-tow hearing by the Chief of Police or his
designee either before or after retrieval of the vehicle. At the hearing,
should the vehicle owner prove to the Chief of Police or his designee that the
vehicle was not in violation of this section when removed, the Village shall
reimburse the vehicle owner for the vehicle retrieval costs or, as the case may
be, pay the vehicle retrieval costs.
      4.   A vehicle owner may appeal to the Village Administrator a finding by
the Chief of Police or his designee that the vehicle was in violation of this
section when removed. The Village Administrator may overturn the decision of
the Chief of Police or his designee, in which case, the Village shall reimburse
or pay the vehicle retrieval costs. (Ord. 94-07, 2-14-1994)
7-1-7: DEPOSIT OF SUBSTANCES FROM VEHICLES ONTO STREETS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Deposits Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to operate, park or
maintain any vehicle on any public street or right-of-way within the Village
under circumstances or conditions whereby such operation, parking or
maintenance results in the tracking or deposit of any soil, clay, oil, tar or
other substance (having a thickness of 1/8 inch or more) upon such street or
right-of-way, except for the spreading of sand or other abrasive material for
purposes of traction.
   B.   Responsibility For Employees: If a person violates the provisions of
subsection A of this section while acting or serving as an employee, agent or
servant, his employer, principal or master shall also be deemed in violation of
subsection A of this section as to the same offense. (Ord. 62-5, 5-9-1962)
   C.   Penalty: Any person, firm, corporation, partnership or association who
violates any of the provisions of this section shall be punishable as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 62-5, 5-9-1962; amd. 2012 Code)
7-1-8: TEMPORARY REGULATORY AND ADVISORY SIGNS (EMERGENCY):
In cases of declared or undeclared emergency, or construction activities, or
road closures which cause local traffic problems that threaten the safety of
motorists using Village controlled streets or public ways, the Village
Administrator may make or cause to be made an investigation of the traffic or
other conditions affecting the use of said streets or public ways to determine
the type, location, and duration of such regulatory or advisory signs as are
required by this section, or that the Village Administrator, upon the advice of
the Chief of Police or Director of Public Works or Village Engineer, may deem
appropriate to provide the public the information, directions, prohibitions or
warnings for obedience to said regulations enacted and in effect pursuant to
this title to traffic upon such street or public way and for the protection and
safety of persons and property. The Village Administrator is authorized and
directed to cause such regulatory and advisory signs determined to be necessary
to be erected and maintained for the necessary duration. All signage pursuant
to this section shall comply with the "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control
Devices". All regulatory and advisory signage installed pursuant to this
section shall be subject to all appropriate obedience, enforcement, and penalty
provisions of this title. All actions by the Village Administrator, Police
Chief or Director of Public Works or Village Engineer pursuant to this section
shall be ratified by the Village Board of Trustees at the next available
Village Board meeting. (Ord. 2005-16, 4-11-2005; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42,
11-13-2017)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Method Of Parking
7-2-2: General Parking Restrictions
7-2-3: Parking Prohibited In Specific Places
7-2-4: Time Limit Parking
7-2-5: Parking For Persons With Disabilities
7-2-6: Parking In Parking Lots
7-2-7: Temporary Parking
7-2-8: Winter Parking; Snow Emergencies
7-2-9: Loading Zones
7-2-10: Signs Posted
7-2-11: Parking Violations
7-2-1: METHOD OF PARKING:
   A.   Generally:
      1.   No person shall park a vehicle with the left side of such vehicle
next to the curb, except on one-way streets.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any vehicle to
allow such vehicle to stand or park in a street other than parallel with the
curb and with the two (2) right wheels of the vehicle within twelve inches
(12") of the regularly established curb line; except, upon streets that have
been marked for angle parking, vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the
curb indicated by such marks. (Ord. 76-56, 9-13-1976)
   B.   Outside Business Or Residence District:
      1.   Outside a business or residence district, no person shall stop, park
or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the roadway
when it is practicable to stop, park or so leave such vehicle off the roadway,
but in every event, an unobstructed width of the highway opposite a standing
vehicle shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view
of such stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of two hundred feet
(200') in each direction upon such highway.
      2.   The corporate authorities, with respect to highways under its
jurisdiction or for the maintenance of which it is responsible, may place signs
prohibiting or restricting the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles on any
highway where, in their opinion, such stopping, standing or parking is
dangerous to those using the highway or where the stopping, standing or parking
of vehicles would unduly interfere with the free movement of traffic thereon.
Any such regulations adopted by the corporate authorities regarding the
stopping, standing or parking of vehicles upon any specific street, streets or
highways become effective at the time of the erection of appropriate signs
indicating such regulations. Any such signs may be erected either by the
corporate authorities or by a local authority with the approval of the
corporate authorities. (Ord. 80-37, 5-28-1980)
7-2-2: GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Vehicles For Sale; Sales From Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any
person to park a vehicle upon any street for the purpose of displaying it for
sale, or to sell goods and merchandise therefrom. (Ord. 76-56, 9-13-1976)
   B.   All Night Parking: No person shall park any vehicle on any street for a
period of time longer than five (5) minutes between the hours of two o'clock
(2:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. of any day, except persons operating
emergency vehicles responding to emergency calls. (Ord. 76-56, 9-13-1976; amd.
2012 Code)
   C.   Alleys: No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner
or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10') of the
width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person
shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to
block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
   D.   Cab Stands And Bus Stands: No person shall park any vehicle, other than
a licensed taxicab, in any area designated by ordinance as a cab stand; nor
shall any person park a vehicle, other than a bus, in a place so designated as
a bus loading zone.
   E.   Private Property: It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any
vehicle to park such vehicle on private property without first obtaining the
consent of the owner of such property. (Ord. 76-56, 9-13-1976)
   F.   Residential Driveway Aprons: Parking upon any "residential driveway
apron", defined as being the area of a residential driveway that is between the
curb and sidewalk and/or property line of the property, in a manner that places
the vehicle parallel to the street or roadway shall be prohibited. (Ord. 2006-
52, 11-13-2006)
7-2-3: PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIC PLACES:
   A.   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or official traffic
control device, no person shall:
      1.   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
         a.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street.
         b.   On a sidewalk.
         c.   Within an intersection.
         d.   On a crosswalk.
         e.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless a different length is indicated by signs or markings.
         f.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
         g.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel.
         h.   On any railroad tracks. A violation of this subsection A1h shall
result in a mandatory fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) or fifty (50)
hours of community service.
         i.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
         j.   On any controlled access highway.
         k.   In the area between roadways of a divided highway, including
crossovers.
         l.   In a public parking area if the vehicle does not display a
current annual registration sticker or current temporary permit pending
registration.
      2.   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except momentarily
to pick up or discharge passengers:
         a.   In front of a public or private driveway.
         b.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
         c.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
         d.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing
signal, stop sign, yield sign, or traffic control signal located at the side of
a roadway.
         e.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of such entrance (when properly signposted).
         f.   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      3.   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading property or
passengers:
         a.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing.
         b.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   B.   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful. (2012
Code)
7-2-4: TIME LIMIT PARKING:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any vehicle to park such
vehicle in a limited parking area, which has been appropriately so marked, for
a consecutive period of time longer than the time period specified therefor in
section
7-3-6-2 of this title. (Ord. 76-56, 9-13-1976)
7-2-5: PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES:
   A.   Definition: A "person with a disability", as used in this section,
shall mean a natural person who, as determined by a licensed physician, by a
physician assistant who has been delegated the authority to make this
determination by his or her supervising physician, or by an advanced practice
nurse who has a written collaborative agreement with a collaborating physician
that authorizes the advanced practice nurse to make this determination: 1)
cannot walk without the use of, or assistance from, a brace, cane, crutch,
another person, prosthetic device, wheelchair, or other assistive device; 2) is
restricted by lung disease to such an extent that his or her forced
(respiratory) expiratory volume for one second, when measured by spirometry, is
less than one liter (1 l), or the arterial oxygen tension is less than sixty
(60) mm/hg on room air at rest; 3) uses portable oxygen; 4) has a cardiac
condition to the extent that the person's functional limitations are classified
in severity as class III or class IV, according to standards set by the
American Heart Association; 5) is severely limited in the person's ability to
walk due to an arthritic, neurological, or orthopedic condition; 6) cannot walk
two hundred feet (200') without stopping to rest because of one of the above
five (5) conditions; or 7) is missing a hand or arm or has permanently lost the
use of a hand or arm.
   B.   Application Of State And Local Laws:
      1.   A motor vehicle bearing registration plates issued to a person with
disabilities pursuant to section 3-616 or to a disabled veteran pursuant to
section 3-609 of the Illinois vehicle code, effective July 1, 1970, as amended,
is exempt from any statute or ordinance imposing time limitations on parking in
a business district; but otherwise is subject to the laws which prohibit
parking in "no stopping" and "no standing" zones in front of or near fire
hydrants, driveways, public building entrances and exits, bus stops and loading
areas, and is prohibited from parking where the motor vehicle constitutes a
traffic hazard, and the motor vehicle must be moved at the instruction and
request of a law enforcement officer to a location designated by the officer.
Any motor vehicle bearing registration plates specified in this section or such
devices as local authorities deem proper as evidence that the vehicle is
operated by or for a person with a disability or disabled veteran may park, in
addition to any other lawful place, in any parking place specifically reserved,
by posting of an official sign, for such vehicles.
      2.   Parking privileges granted by this section are strictly limited to
the person to whom the special registration plates were issued and to qualified
operators acting under his express direction while the person with disabilities
is present.
      3.   No person shall use any area for the parking of any motor vehicle
pursuant to this chapter or where an official sign controlling such area
expressly prohibits parking at any time or during certain hours.
   C.   Special Decals:
      1.   The secretary of state of the state of Illinois shall provide for,
by administrative rules, the design, size and color of a motorist with
disabilities decal or device which shall be used in the issuance thereof to a
person with disabilities. This decal or device shall be the property of such
person with disabilities and may be used by that person to designate and
identify a vehicle not owned or displaying a registration plate as provided in
sections 3-609 and 3-616 of the Illinois vehicle code to designate when the
vehicle is being used to transport said person with disabilities, and thus is
entitled to enjoy all the privileges that would be afforded a person with
disabilities licensed vehicle.
      2.   Such decal or device shall be displayed in a conspicuous location
and in plain view to an observer standing outside said vehicle for which a
person with disabilities seeks exemption from the parking restrictions of this
title.
   D.   Unauthorized Use Of Parking Places Reserved For Persons With
Disabilities: It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle which is not
bearing registration plates issued to a person with disabilities pursuant to
section 3-616 or to a disabled veteran pursuant to section 3-609 of the
Illinois vehicle code, or such devices as the village deems proper as evidence
that the vehicle is operated by or for a person with disabilities or disabled
veteran, in any parking place specifically reserved, by the posting of an
official sign, for motor vehicles bearing such registration plates. (Ord. 80-
43, 6-23-1980; amd. 2012 Code)
7-2-6: PARKING IN PARKING LOTS:
   A.   Municipal Parking Lots: The Municipal parking lots now owned or
hereinafter acquired by the Village shall be under the supervision of the Chief
of Police, and he shall cause signs to be erected indicating the direction in
which traffic shall enter, proceed through, and exit from said lots and signs
indicating reserved parking and no parking. It shall be unlawful for traffic to
move in a direction other than as indicated or to park in areas restricted by
signs. (Ord. 76-56, 9-13-1976)
   B.   Private Parking Lots: It shall be unlawful for any person not entitled
to do so to park a vehicle in a private parking lot which has been established
voluntarily or pursuant to the Village zoning ordinance to provide off street
parking facilities for those parties authorized by the owner of said lot. (Ord.
2010-07, 3-8-2010)
7-2-7: TEMPORARY PARKING:
The Chief of Police may, in his discretion, under unusual and extraordinary
circumstances, grant permission to the owner or operator of a vehicle to park
such vehicle in a manner which is contrary to the requirements of this title.
(Ord. 76-49, 7-26-1976; amd. 2012 Code)
7-2-8: WINTER PARKING; SNOW EMERGENCIES:
   A.   Limited Winter Parking: It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator
of any vehicle to park said vehicle on any street in the Village between
December 15 of each year and April 1 of the following year for a period of time
longer than three (3) minutes for loading or unloading passengers and for a
period of time longer than thirty (30) minutes for loading, unloading or
delivery of property between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. (Ord. 76-56, 9-13-1976)
   B.   Snow Routes:
      1.   All public streets and alleys shall be considered snow routes. It
shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any vehicle to park such vehicle
on any street or alley in the Village whenever there exists an accumulation of
snow and/or ice of two inches (2") or more on such street or alley. (Ord. 89-2,
1-9-1989)
      2.   The Police Department is hereby authorized and empowered to remove
any vehicle from a snow route whenever such vehicle becomes stalled or
inoperable thereon, and the owner or operator either refuses or fails to remove
the same. (Ord. 76-56, 9-13-1976)
7-2-9: LOADING ZONES:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a passenger vehicle to park
such vehicle for a period of time longer than is necessary for the loading or
unloading of passengers, not to exceed three (3) minutes, and for the owner or
operator of any freight carrying vehicles to park such vehicle for a period of
time longer than is necessary to load, unload and deliver materials, not to
exceed thirty (30) minutes, in any place designated by ordinance as a loading
zone and marked as such or in any of the following designated places:
   A.   In front of any public building between the hours of eight o'clock (8:
00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M., except on Sunday.
   B.   In front of any theater at any time the theater is open for business.
(Ord. 76-56, 9-13-1976)
7-2-10: SIGNS POSTED:
The Director of Public Works or the Village Engineer or any other person
authorized by the President and Board of Trustees shall cause signs to be
posted in all areas where parking is limited or prohibited, indicating such
limitations or prohibitions. It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of
any vehicle to park such vehicle in an area posted accordingly. (Ord. 76-56, 9-
13-1976; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
7-2-11: PARKING VIOLATIONS:
   A.   The owner or operator of any vehicle who has been charged with
committing any of the following offenses:
      Leaving a motor vehicle running and unattended,
      Overtime parking,
      Parking in a fire lane,
      Parking in a no parking zone or at a place where parking is otherwise
prohibited,
      Parking in a safety zone,
      Parking in violation of subsection
7-2-1A of this chapter,
      Parking on any street between two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and five o'clock
(5:00) A.M. in violation of subsection
7-2-2B of this chapter, may settle and compromise such charge without making a
hearing appearance by paying the sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00), if paid
within ten (10) days following issuance of a complaint therefor. If the fine is
not paid within ten (10) days following the issuance, the owner or operator of
the vehicle who has been charged with committing any of the offenses in this
subsection shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. At hearing, each convicted violation shall result in a fine
in the amount not less than fifty dollars ($50.00).
   B.   The owner or operator of any vehicle who has been charged with
committing any of the following offenses:
      Improper parking in an area designated for parking by persons with
disabilities only, may settle and compromise such charge without making a court
appearance by paying the sum of three hundred dollars ($300.00), if paid within
ten (10) days following issuance of a complaint therefor. If the fine is not
paid within ten (10) days following the issuance, the owner or operator of the
vehicle who has been charged with committing any of the offenses in this
subsection shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. At hearing, each convicted violation shall result in a fine
in the amount not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   C.   Payment of the fines designated in subsections A and B of this section
shall be made by mailing a check or money order for the required amount,
together with the violator's copy of the notice, to the Bloomingdale police
department or by paying the same in person during regular business hours.
Checks or money orders should be made payable to the Bloomingdale police
department.
   D.   The issuance of a delinquent notice shall increase the fines designated
in subsections A and B of this section by the amount of the fines initially
imposed by subsections A and B of this section. Each subsequent issuance of a
delinquent notice shall again increase the total fine by the amount of the
fines initially imposed by subsections A and B of this section. (Ord. 2010-06,
3-8-2010; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2020-34, 11-23-2020)
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
SECTION:
7-3-1: Traffic Control Device Intersections
7-3-2: Stop Intersections
7-3-3: Yield Right Of Way Intersections
7-3-4: Speed Limits
7-3-5: One-Way Streets And Areas
7-3-6: Parking
7-3-6-1: Parking Prohibited On Specific Streets
7-3-6-2: Time Limit Parking
7-3-6-3: Schools
7-3-6-4: Parking Within A Business Park
7-3-6-5: Specific Parking Signs Posted
7-3-7: Turning Movements
7-3-8: Signs Posted
7-3-1: TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE INTERSECTIONS:
The following street intersections are hereby designated intersections through
which traffic shall be regulated by traffic control devices. Any person, firm
or corporation convicted of violating any provision of this section shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense.
East Army Trail Road and Creekside Drive.
East Army Trail Road and Glen Ellyn Road.
East Army Trail Road and Regency Drive.
East Lake Street and Euclid Avenue and Lakeview Drive.
East Lake Street and Fairfield Way.
East Lake Street and Glen Ellyn Road.
East Lake Street and Medinah Road.
East Lake Street and North Circle Avenue.
East Lake Street and Springbrook Shopping Center.
Gary Avenue and entrance drive 5.
Gary Avenue and Glenwood Drive.
Gary Avenue and Lawrence Avenue.
Gary Avenue and Schick Road.
Gary Avenue and Scott Drive.
Lake Street and Bloomingdale Road.
Schick Road and Country Club Drive.
Schick Road and Springfield Drive.
Schick Road and Stratford Promenade and Meijer.
Schmale Road and Bloomingdale Court.
South Bloomingdale Road and Bloomingdale fire department station 1.
South Bloomingdale Road and Edgewater Drive.
South Bloomingdale Road and Fairfield Way.
South Bloomingdale Road and Greenway Drive.
South Bloomingdale Road and Schick Road.
Springfield Drive and bike trail.
Springfield Drive and entrance drive 3.
West Army Trail Road and Bloomingdale Court.
West Army Trail Road and Butterfield Drive.
West Army Trail Road and Cardinal Drive.
West Army Trail Road and Gary Avenue.
West Army Trail Road and Knollwood Drive.
West Army Trail Road and Madsen Drive and Kuhn Road.
West Army Trail Road and Merbach Drive.
West Army Trail Road and Schmale Road and Skylark Drive.
West Army Trail Road and Springfield Drive.
West Lake Street and Rodenburg Road.
West Lake Street and Rosedale Avenue.
West Lake Street and Springfield Drive.
(Ord. 80-15, 3-11-1980; amd. 2012 Code)
7-3-2: STOP INTERSECTIONS:
The following street intersections are hereby designated as stop intersections
in the manner hereinafter provided, and all vehicular traffic shall stop before
entering or crossing the intersections so designated:
Street/Site Direction Of Traffic Location Derivation
Street/Site           Direction Of Traffic  Location               Derivation
Acorn Lane            Northwestbound        Greenway Drive         Ord. 80-24
Annalisa Court        Westbound             Medinah Road           Ord. 2005-16
Applewood Lane        Eastbound             Glen Ellyn Road        Ord. 80-24
Aprina Court          Eastbound             Bloomingdale Road      2012 Code
Army Trail Road       Eastbound             Gary Avenue            Ord. 80-24
                     Westbound             Gary Avenue            Ord. 80-24
BFD station 4         Westbound             Entrance drive         2012 Code
                     Westbound             South Bloomingdale     2012 Code
                                            Road
Barron Drive          Eastbound             Springfield Drive      2012 Code
                     Southbound            Stratford Drive        2012 Code
                      Northbound            Lynwood Lane/Lynwood   Ord. 2023-46
Benton Lane                                 Circle
                      Southbound            Lynwood Lane/Lynwood   Ord. 2023-46
                                            Circle
Bike path             Eastbound             Springfield Drive      2012 Code
                     Westbound             Springfield Drive      2012 Code
Biscayne Street       Eastbound             Gary Avenue            2012 Code
Bloomfield Circle     Southbound            West Schick Road       2012 Code
Bloomfield Parkway    Northbound            West Schick Road       2012 Code
Bobolink Road         Southbound            Army Trail Road        Ord. 80-24
Braintree Drive       Northbound            Schick Road            Ord. 80-24
Brighton Drive        Southbound            West Army Trail Road   2012 Code
Broker Road           Westbound             North Circle Avenue    Ord. 80-24
Brookdale             Southbound            Army Trail Road        Ord. 80-24
Butterfield Drive     Southbound            Army Trail Road        Ord. 80-24
Byron Avenue          Eastbound             Walter Court           Ord. 80-24
                     Northwestbound        Glen Ellyn Road        Ord. 80-24
Cambridge             Northbound            Schick Road            Ord. 80-24
Camden Drive          Eastbound             Gary Avenue            2012 Code
                     Westbound             Covington Drive        Ord. 2001-17
Canterbury Court      Northbound            East Schick Road       2012 Code
Cardinal Drive        Northbound            Schick Road            Ord. 80-24
                     Southbound            Army Trail Road        Ord. 80-24
Carmela Court         Westbound             Rosedale Road          Ord. 2005-16
Carriage Way          Westbound             Glen Ellyn Road        2012 Code
Castle Rock Lane      Southbound            Schick Road            Ord. 87-15
Cavalry Drive         Northbound            West Army Trail Road   2012 Code
Chatham Court         Southbound            Fairfield Way          2012 Code
Chelsea Street        Northbound            Royal Lane             Ord. 2005-16
Circle Avenue         Eastbound             Glen Ellyn Road        Ord. 80-24
                      Eastbound, westbound,
                     northbound and        Schick Road            Ord. 81-15
                      southbound
                     Southbound            Broker Road            Ord. 80-24
College Drive         Northbound            Greenway Drive         Ord. 80-24
                     Northeastbound        Carthage Court         2012 Code
                     Southwestbound        Carthage Court         2012 Code
Colony Green Drive    Northeastbound        Edgewater Drive        Ord. 80-24
Constitution Drive    Northbound            West Schick Road       2012 Code
Country Club Drive    Southbound            Schick Road            Ord. 87-15
Covington Drive       Northbound            West Schick Road       2012 Code
                     Southbound            Brighton Drive         Ord. 2001-17
Creekside             Southbound            Army Trail Road        Ord. 80-24
Deer Glen Way         Westbound             Glen Ellyn Road        Ord. 80-24
Donald Drive          Westbound             Knollwood Drive        Ord. 2022-37
                     Northbound            Jorrie Lane            Ord. 2022-37
Donmor Drive          Eastbound             Springfield Drive      Ord. 2022-37
Donna Lane            Eastbound             Medinah Road           Ord. 95-46
Dujardin School       Eastbound             Euclid Avenue          2012 Code
Entrance drive 2      Northeastbound        Springfield Drive      2012 Code
Eagle Lane            Northbound            Raven Lane             Ord. 80-24
                     Southbound            Cardinal Drive         Ord. 80-24
Edgewater Drive       Eastbound             Glen Ellyn Road        Ord. 80-24
                     Eastbound             Greenway Drive         Ord. 80-24
                     Eastbound             Lakeview Lane          Ord. 97-23
                     Eastbound             Winston Lane           Ord. 89-48
                     Westbound             Bloomingdale Road      Ord. 80-24
                     Westbound             Greenway Drive         Ord. 80-24
                     Westbound             Lakeview Lane          Ord. 97-23
                     Westbound             Winston Lane           Ord. 89-48
Erie Circle           Eastbound             Medinah Road           Ord. 2005-16
Euclid Avenue         Northbound            Ironwood Drive         Ord. 80-24
                     Northbound            Lake Street            Ord. 80-24
                     Northbound            Schick Road            Ord. 80-24
                     Northbound            Tee Lane               Ord. 80-24
                     Southbound            Ironwood Drive         Ord. 80-24
                     Southbound            Schick Road            Ord. 80-24
                     Southbound            Tee Lane               Ord. 80-24
Euclid Court          Westbound             Euclid Avenue          2012 Code
Fairfield Way         Northbound            Braintree Drive        Ord. 80-24
                     Northbound            Schick Road            Ord. 80-24
                     Southbound            Braintree Drive        Ord. 80-24
                     Southbound            Schick Road            Ord. 80-24
                     Westbound             Bloomingdale Road      Ord. 80-24
Fessler Drive         Eastbound             Bloomingdale Road      Ord. 95-46
Foster Avenue         Westbound             Bloomingdale Road      Ord. 80-24
Fox Court             Eastbound             Covington Drive        Ord. 2001-17
Franklin Street       Eastbound             Bloomingdale Road      Ord. 80-24
                     Westbound             Bloomingdale Road      Ord. 80-24
Frisco Street         Westbound             Cloverdale Road        Ord. 95-46
Gary Avenue           Northbound            Army Trail Road        Ord. 80-24
                     Southbound            Army Trail Road        Ord. 80-24
Glen Ellyn Road       Northbound            Edgewater Drive        Ord. 80-24
                     Southbound            Edgewater Drive        Ord. 80-24
Greenway Drive        Eastbound             College Drive          Ord. 80-24
                     Northeastbound        Edgewater Drive        Ord. 80-24
                     Westbound             Bloomingdale Road      Ord. 80-24
                     Westbound             College Drive          Ord. 80-24
Hamilton Woods        Eastbound             Medinah Road           2012 Code
                     Southwestbound        East Lake Street       2012 Code
Harvard Lane          Eastbound             Glen Ellyn Road        Ord. 80-24
                     Southbound            Army Trail Road        Ord. 80-24
Hawthorne Lane        Westbound             Euclid Avenue          2012 Code
Hearthside Drive      Eastbound             Glen Ellyn Road        Ord. 80-24
Hillandale Drive      Northbound            Leslie Lane            Ord. 2000-40
                     Northbound            West Schick Road       2012 Code
                     Southbound            Leslie Lane            Ord. 2000-40
Ironwood Drive        Eastbound             Glen Ellyn Road        Ord. 80-24
                     Westbound             Euclid Avenue          Ord. 80-24
Jackson Street        Northbound            Schick Road            Ord. 80-24
Jefferson Street      Northbound            Schick Road            Ord. 80-24
Johnston recreational Northbound            South Circle Avenue    2012 Code
center
Jorrie Lane           Northbound            Mall Ring Road         Ord. 2022-37
Juliana Lane          Eastbound             Medinah Road           Ord. 2005-16
Kildeer Road          Southbound            Army Trail Road        Ord. 80-24
Lakeshore Lane        Southbound            Edgewater Drive        Ord. 80-24
Lakeview Drive        Southbound            Lake Street            Ord. 80-24
Lakeview Lane         Northeastbound        Circle Avenue          Ord. 80-24
                     Southwestbound        Edgewater Drive        Ord. 80-24
Larchmont Lane        Northbound            Schick Road            Ord. 80-24
Laurel Lane           Northbound            Edgewater Drive        Ord. 80-24
Lawrence Avenue       Eastbound             Gary Avenue            Ord. 80-24
                     Westbound             Gary Avenue            Ord. 80-24
Leslie Lane           Eastbound             Rosedale Court         Ord. 91-27
                     Westbound             Hillandale Drive       Ord. 2000-40
                     Westbound             Rosedale Court         Ord. 91-27
London                Northbound            Greenway Drive         Ord. 80-24
Longridge Drive       Northbound            Schick Road            Ord. 80-24
Longview Drive        Westbound             Schmale Road           2012 Code
Lori Court            Westbound             Circle Avenue          Ord. 2005-16
Lorraine Circle       Southbound            West Schick Road       2012 Code
(East)
Lorraine Circle       Southbound            West Schick Road       2012 Code
(West)
Los Lagos Drive       Northbound            West Schick Road       2012 Code
Maple Avenue          Northbound            Lake Street            Ord. 80-24
                     Southbound            Lake Street            Ord. 80-24
Martin Lane           Southbound            Army Trail Road        Ord. 80-24
Mayo Lane             Eastbound             Medinah Road           2012 Code
Meadowlark Road       Southbound            Army Trail Road        Ord. 80-24
Millford Lane         Southbound            Fairfield Way          2012 Code
Millford Lane East    Northbound            Fairfield Way          2012 Code
Millford Lane West    Northbound            Fairfield Way          2012 Code
Munroe Drive          Westbound             Schmale Road           2012 Code
Nordic Road           Eastbound             Glen Ellyn Road        Ord. 80-24
North Circle Avenue   Northbound            Broker Road            Ord. 80-24
                     Southbound            Lake Street            Ord. 80-24
North Winden Lane     Southeastbound        Springfield Drive      2012 Code
Oak Street            Southbound            Schick Road            Ord. 80-24
Oakwood Lane          Eastbound             Glen Ellyn Road        Ord. 80-24
Old Gary Avenue       Northbound            Army Trail Road        Ord. 86-14
                     Southbound            Army Trail Road        Ord. 86-14
Old Mill Lane         Westbound             Butterfield Drive      Ord. 2021-42
Oriole Street         Northbound            Cardinal Drive         Ord. 80-24
                     Southbound            Army Trail Road        Ord. 80-24
Park Avenue           Eastbound             Bloomingdale Road      Ord. 80-24
Picton Road           Eastbound             Bloomingdale Road      Ord. 80-24
Pinewood Lane         Eastbound             Glen Ellyn Road        Ord. 80-24
Pleasant Avenue       Northbound            Schick Road            Ord. 86-54
                     Southbound            Schick Road            Ord. 86-54
Prairie Avenue        Northbound            Lake Street            Ord. 80-24
                     Northbound            Schick Road            Ord. 85-15
                     Southbound            Schick Road            Ord. 85-15
Public works          Westbound             Glen Ellyn Road        2012 Code
                     Westbound             Works parking lot gate 2012 Code
                                            (2)
                      Eastbound             Bloomingdale Road      Ord. 80-24
Raven Lane            Eastbound             Tanager Drive          Ord. 2016-29
                      Westbound             Tanager Drive          Ord. 2016-29
Redbird Road          Southbound            Army Trail Road        Ord. 80-24
Regency Drive         Southbound            Army Trail Road        Ord. 80-24
Regency Drive West    Southbound            Army Trail Road        Ord. 80-24
Ridge Avenue          Northbound            Lake Street            Ord. 80-24
Rose Drive            Westbound             Rosedale Road          Ord. 2005-16
Rosedale Court        Northbound            West Schick Road       2012 Code
                     Southbound            Leslie Lane            Ord. 91-27
Rosedale Road         Southbound            Lake Street            Ord. 80-24
                     Southbound            Schick Road            Ord. 80-24
Royce Drive           Northeastbound        Edgewater Drive        Ord. 80-24
Schick Road           Eastbound             Bloomingdale Road      Ord. 80-24
                     Eastbound             Euclid Avenue          Ord. 80-24
                     Eastbound             Fairfield Way          Ord. 80-24
                     Eastbound             Gary Avenue            Ord. 80-24
                     Eastbound             Glen Ellyn Road        Ord. 80-24
                     Eastbound             Pleasant Avenue        Ord. 86-54
                     Eastbound             Prairie Avenue         Ord. 2014-34
                     Westbound             Bloomingdale Road      Ord. 80-24
                     Westbound             Euclid Avenue          Ord. 80-24
                     Westbound             Fairfield Way          Ord. 80-24
                     Westbound             Gary Avenue            Ord. 80-24
                     Westbound             Pleasant Avenue        Ord. 86-54
                     Westbound             Prairie Avenue         Ord. 2014-34
Scott Drive           Westbound             Covington Drive        Ord. 2001-17
Seneca Trail          Northbound            Lawrence Avenue        2012 Code
                     Southbound            West Schick Road       2012 Code
Skylark Drive         Southbound            Army Trail Road        Ord. 80-24
South Circle Avenue   Eastbound             Lakeview Lane          Ord. 86-3
                     Northbound            Lake Street            Ord. 80-24
                     Southbound            Johnston Recreational  2012 Code
                                            Center Parking Lot
                     Westbound             Lakeview Lane          Ord. 86-3
South Prairie Avenue  Southbound            Marklund Parking Lot   2012 Code
South Windham Lane    Northwestbound        Springfield Drive      2012 Code
Spring Valley Drive   Westbound             North Circle Avenue    Ord. 2021-42
Stonington Drive      Westbound             Knollwood Drive        Ord. 2022-37
Stratford Place Drive Eastbound             Butterfield Drive      2012 Code
                     Northbound            Butterfield Drive      2012 Code
Superior Drive        Eastbound             Medinah Road           Ord. 2005-16
Tamarack Drive        Eastbound             Glen Ellyn Road        Ord. 80-24
Tanager Drive         Southbound            Raven Lane             Ord. 2016-29
Tee Lane              Eastbound             Euclid Avenue          Ord. 80-24
                     Eastbound             Glen Ellyn Road        Ord. 80-24
                     Westbound             Euclid Avenue          Ord. 80-24
Versailles Court      Southwestbound        Lorraine Circle        2012 Code
Villa Way East        Southbound            Schick Road            Ord. 87-15
Villa Way West        Southbound            Schick Road            Ord. 87-15
Village hall entrance Eastbound             Parking lot            2012 Code
                     Northeastbound        Parking lot            2012 Code
                     Southbound            Fairfield Way          2012 Code
Village hall entrance Westbound             South Bloomingdale     2012 Code
(north)                                     Road
Village hall entrance Westbound             South Bloomingdale     2012 Code
(south)                                     Road
Village hall parking  Westbound             Village hall entrance  2012 Code
lot
Walmart               Westbound             Schmale Road           2012 Code
Washington Street     Eastbound             Bloomingdale Road      Ord. 80-24
                     Eastbound             Third Street           Ord. 96-4
                     Westbound             Bloomingdale Road      Ord. 80-24
                     Westbound             Third Street           Ord. 96-4
Wedgefield Lane       Southbound            Butterfield Drive      2012 Code
West Hampshire Drive  Southeastbound        Springfield Drive      2012 Code
West Road             Southbound            Schick Road            Ord. 80-24
West Windsor Drive    Eastbound             Springfield Drive      2012 Code
Westminster Place     Northeastbound        West Lake Street       2012 Code
Wheaton Road          Northbound            Schick Road            Ord. 80-24
                     Southbound            Army Trail Road        Ord. 80-24
White Hall Terrace    Westbound             Butterfield Drive      Ord. 2021-42
William Way           Northbound            Lake Street (U.S. 20)  Ord. 96-4
Willowbridge          Westbound             Glen Ellyn Road        Ord. 80-24
Wimbledon Place       Southeastbound        Westminster Drive      2012 Code
Winston Lane          Northbound            Edgewater Drive        Ord. 80-24
                     Northbound            Fairfield Way          Ord. 80-24
                     Southbound            Edgewater Drive        Ord. 80-24
Woodcrest Court       Southeastbound        Bloomingdale Road      Ord. 80-24
First Avenue          Northbound            Lake Street            Ord. 80-24
                     Southbound            Schick Road            Ord. 80-24
First Street          Southbound            Schick Road            Ord. 81-37
Third Street          Northbound            Lake Street            Ord. 80-24
                     Northbound            Washington Street      Ord. 80-24
                     Southbound            Schick Road            Ord. 80-24
                     Southbound            Washington Street      Ord. 80-24
 
7-3-3: YIELD RIGHT OF WAY INTERSECTIONS:
The following street intersections are hereby designated as yield intersections
in the manner hereinafter provided, and all vehicular traffic shall slow down
to a reasonable speed for the existing conditions and yield the right of way to
any vehicle in the intersection approaching on another roadway so closely as to
constitute an immediate hazard during the time such driver is moving across or
within the intersection, before entering or crossing the intersection so
designated: (Ord. 80-25, 4-22-1980)
Street Direction Of Traffic Intersection With Derivation
Street               Direction Of Traffic Intersection With    Derivation
Acorn Lane           Southeastbound       Colony Green Drive   Ord. 80-25
Alsace Court         Northeastbound       Lorraine Circle      2012 Code
Amherst Court        Westbound            College Drive        Ord. 76-45
Ashfield Court       Eastbound            Wickham Avenue       2012 Code
Benton Lane          Southeastbound       Wentworth Circle     2012 Code
Biarritz Court       Northbound           Lorraine Circle      2012 Code
Birchwood Street     Westbound            Colony Green Drive   Ord. 80-25
Biscayne Street      Eastbound            Gary Avenue          2012 Code
Bloomfield Circle    Eastbound            Woodside Drive       Ord. 92-21
Bloomfield Lane      Northbound           Bloomfield Parkway   Ord. 92-21
                     Southbound           Parkway Avenue       Ord. 92-21
Bloomfield Parkway   Southbound           Bloomfield Parkway   Ord. 92-21
                                          traffic circle
Bourne Lane          Eastbound            Fairfield Way        Ord. 80-25
Bradley Court        Westbound            College Drive        Ord. 76-45
Carthage Court       Northwestbound       College Drive        Ord. 80-25
Castle Rock Lane     Northbound           Royal Lane           Ord. 2015-02
Chambord Court       Northwestbound       Lorraine Circle      2012 Code
Chelsea Street       Westbound            Castle Rock Lane     2012 Code
Chesapeake Drive     Northbound           Biscayne Street      Ord. 95-46
Chesapeake Lane      Northbound           Biscayne Street      Ord. 97-27
                     Northbound           Frisco Street        Ord. 97-27
Clare Drive          Northbound           Erie Circle          2012 Code
Clearbrook Lane      Southwestbound       Edgewater Drive      Ord. 80-25
Clubhouse Drive      Southbound           Bloomfield Parkway   Ord. 92-21
                     Westbound            Benton Lane          Ord. 92-21
Country Club Lane    Northbound           Royal Lane           Ord. 2002-33
Creekside Drive      Westbound            Brookdale Drive      2012 Code
Cunningham Lane      Northbound           Edgewater Drive      Ord. 80-25
Dawn Court           Westbound            Brookdale Drive      Ord. 2005-16
Dijon Court          Southeastbound       Lorraine Circle      2012 Code
Driftwood Lane       Westbound            Edgewater Drive      Ord. 80-25
Dublin Road          Westbound            Clare Drive          2012 Code
Duxbury Court        Southwestbound       Fairfield Way        Ord. 80-25
Edgewater Court      Northbound           Edgewater Drive      2012 Code
                     Northeastbound       Edgewater Drive      2012 Code
Esprit Court         Southeastbound       Versailles Court     2012 Code
Euclid Avenue        Southbound           South Circle Avenue  2012 Code
Euclid Court         Westbound            Euclid Street        Ord. 80-25
Fairchild Court      Northbound           College Drive        Ord. 76-45
Fairfield Court      Northwestbound       Fairfield Way        2012 Code
Galway Court         Westbound            Clare Drive          2012 Code
Garden Way           Southbound           William Way          Ord. 96-4
Georgetown Court     Northbound           College Drive        Ord. 80-25
Greenfield Drive     Southbound           Warwick Lane         Ord. 92-21
Hampton Court        Northbound           College Drive        Ord. 76-45
Hancock Lane         Eastbound            Jefferson Lane       2012 Code
                     Westbound            Constitution Drive   2012 Code
Hillcrest Terrace    Eastbound            North Circle Avenue  Ord. 80-25
                     Eastbound            Braintree Drive      Ord. 98-43
Hingham Lane         Eastbound            Fairfield Way        Ord. 80-25
                     Westbound            Braintree Drive      Ord. 98-43
Huron Drive          Northbound           Erie Circle          2012 Code
                     Westbound            Erie Circle          2012 Code
Indiana Court        Southbound           College Drive        Ord. 80-25
Ivy Lane             Southbound           Circle Avenue        Ord. 80-25
Kingston Lane        Southbound           Circle Avenue        Ord. 80-25
Lakeshore Lane       Northwestbound       Lakeview Lane        Ord. 80-25
Langton Court        Southbound           Edgewater Drive      Ord. 80-25
Langton Lane         Northbound           Edgewater Drive      Ord. 80-25
Larchmont Lane       Southbound           Longridge Drive      2012 Code
Laurel Lane          Southbound           Colony Green Drive   2012 Code
Lehigh Lane          Northbound           Longridge Drive      2012 Code
Leslie Lane          Eastbound            Longridge Drive      2012 Code
Lincoln Court        Southbound           College Drive        Ord. 76-45
Lockwood Lane        Northbound           Freeport Drive       2012 Code
                     Southbound           Circle Avenue        Ord. 80-25
London Drive         Northbound           Greenway Drive       2012 Code
Longridge Drive      Northbound           Lynbrook Drive       Ord. 80-25
Lynwood Circle       Northeastbound       Benton Lane          2012 Code
Lynwood Lane         Eastbound            Bloomfield Parkway   Ord. 92-21
                     Southwestbound       Benton Lane          2012 Code
Maple Court          Southwestbound       Oak Street           Ord. 80-25; amd.
                                                               2012 Code
Michigan Court       Northbound           Superior Drive       2012 Code
Michigan Drive       Northbound           Erie Circle          2012 Code
                     Southbound           Superior Drive       2012 Code
Millcreek Lane       Southwestbound       Edgewater Drive      Ord. 80-25
Milton Court         Northbound           Greenway Drive       Ord. 76-45
Mission Court        Eastbound            Biscayne Street      Ord. 97-27
Mission Drive        Westbound            Biscayne Street      2012 Code
Morningside Drive    Westbound            Creekside Drive      Ord. 2003-27
Nordic Road          Eastbound            Euclid Avenue        Ord. 80-25
                     Westbound            Euclid Avenue        Ord. 80-25
North Bristol Drive  Southbound           West Windsor Drive   Ord. 92-21
North Pleasant       Northbound           Broker Road          Ord. 80-25
Avenue
Northwestern Court   Northbound           Greenway Drive       Ord. 76-45
Oakwood              Westbound            Colony Green Drive   Ord. 80-25
Orchard Lane         Eastbound            South Windham Lane   Ord. 92-21
Oxford Court         Southbound           Edgewater Drive      Ord. 80-25
Oxford Lane          Northbound           Edgewater Drive      Ord. 80-25
Park Avenue          Westbound            North Circle Avenue  Ord. 80-25
Parkway Avenue       Eastbound            Wellington Drive     Ord. 92-21
Pleasant Avenue      Northbound           Schick Road          Ord. 80-25
                     Southbound           Schick Road          Ord. 80-25
                     Northbound           Broker Road          Ord. 80-25
Prairie Avenue       Northbound           Schick Road          Ord. 80-25
                     Southbound           Schick Road          Ord. 80-25
Royal Lane           Eastbound            Royal Lane           2012 Code
St. Francis Court    Northbound           Broker Road          Ord. 80-25
Salem Court          Eastbound            Fairfield Way        2012 Code
Salt Lake Drive      Northbound           Erie Circle          2012 Code
Scenic Drive         Northbound           William Way          Ord. 96-4
South Circle Avenue  Northbound           Schick Road          Ord. 80-25
                     Southbound           Schick Road          Ord. 80-25
                     Eastbound            N. Prairie Avenue    Ord. 2021-42
Spring Valley Drive  Westbound            N. Prairie Avenue    Ord. 2021-42
                     Eastbound            N. Pleasant Avenue   Ord. 2021-42
Springbrook Drive    Eastbound            Fairfield Way        2012 Code
                     Westbound            Ridge Avenue         2012 Code
Starling Court       Southbound           Edgewater Drive      Ord. 80-25
                     Westbound            Brookdale Drive      Ord. 2005-16
Sterling Lane        Northbound           Edgewater Drive      Ord. 80-25
Stoneybrook Lane     Northbound           Carriage Way         2012 Code
                     Southbound           Deer Glen Way        2012 Code
                     Northbound           Edgewater Drive      Ord. 80-25; amd.
Strathmore Lane                                                2012 Code
                     Southbound           Edgewater Drive      Ord. 80-25; amd.
                                                               2012 Code
Superior Drive       Westbound            Erie Circle          2012 Code
Swallow Avenue       Northbound           Cardinal Drive       2012 Code
Thrasher Street      Northbound           Cardinal Drive       Ord. 80-25
                     Northbound           Raven Lane           Ord. 80-25
Warwick Lane         Eastbound            Wellington Drive     Ord. 92-21
                     Westbound            Bloomfield Parkway   Ord. 92-21
West Sheffield Drive Eastbound            North Windham Lane   Ord. 92-21
                     Westbound            West Hampshire Drive Ord. 92-21
Wedgefield Lane      Northbound           Wentworth Lane       2012 Code
Wendover Court       Northwestbound       Wellington Drive     2012 Code
Wentworth Circle     Northeastbound       Benton Lane          2012 Code
West Windsor Drive   Eastbound            West Hampshire Drive Ord. 92-21
William Way          Northbound           Garden Way           Ord. 96-4
Willow Lane          Southwestbound       Edgewater Drive      Ord. 80-25
Woodland Way         Eastbound            William Way          Ord. 96-4
Woodside Drive       Westbound            Orchard Lane         Ord. 92-21
 
7-3-4: SPEED LIMITS:
No person shall drive any vehicle upon any of the following streets at a speed
in excess of that indicated in the following subsections:
   A.   Fifteen Miles Per Hour: No person shall drive any vehicle upon any of
the following streets at a speed in excess of fifteen (15) miles per hour:
Arquilla Court.
Atherton Court.
Billings Court.
Brewster Court.
Brewster Lane.
Briarwood Lane.
Chatham Court.
College Drive.
Country Ridge Lane.
Crandon Court.
Darby Court.
Duxbury Court.
Epson Court.
Fairlane Court.
Glen Ridge Lane.
Golfview Court.
Lakeview Lane.
Lawford Court.
Meadowview Court.
Melbourne Court.
Millford Drive (Brewster to Fairfield Lane).
Millford Lane.
Montvale Lane.
Oak Knoll Lane.
Paxton Road.
Pemberton Way.
Quincy Court.
Rountree Court.
Stonington Drive.
Wildwood Lane.
(Ord. 76-56, 9-13-1956; amd. Ord. 77-20, 3-28-1977; Ord. 83-42, 12-29-1983;
Ord. 2005-16, 4-11-2005; 2012 Code)
   B.   Twenty Miles Per Hour:
      1.   Streets Generally: No person shall drive any vehicle upon any of the
following streets at a speed in excess of twenty (20) miles per hour:
Acorn Lane.
Applewood Lane.
Bayview Court.
Birchwood Lane.
Clearbook Lane.
Colony Green Drive.
Driftwood Lane.
Elmwood Lane.
Harbor Court.
Lakeshore Lane.
Laurel Lane.
Millcreek Lane.
Oakwood Lane.
Pinewood Lane.
Spring Court.
Willow Lane.
(Ord. 83-42, 12-29-1983; amd. Ord. 2005-16, 4-11-2005)
      2.   School Zones: No person shall drive a vehicle within the following
school posted speed zones at a speed which exceeds twenty (20) miles per hour:
School Street Direction Of Traffic Location Ordinance
School    Street            Direction Of Traffic Location             Ordinance
                                                 From a point 100'
                                                 south of Ironwood
                            Northbound           Drive to a point     86-55
                                                 200' north of Schick
          Euclid Avenue                          Road
                                                 From a point 200'
                                                 north of Schick Road
                            Southbound           to a point 100'      86-55
                                                 south of Ironwood
Dujardin                                         Drive
                                                 From a point 500'
                                                 west of Euclid
                            Eastbound            Avenue to a point    77-61
                                                 500' east of Euclid
          Tee Lane                               Avenue
                                                 From a point 500'
                                                 east of Euclid
                            Westbound            Avenue to a point    77-61
                                                 500' west of Euclid
                                                 Avenue
                                                 From a point 80'
                                                 west of South
                            Eastbound            Windham Lane to a    2014-23
                                                 point 750' east,
                                                 northeast of Garden
Erickson  Springfield Drive                      Avenue
                                                 From a point 340'
                                                 east, northeast of
                            Westbound            Garden Avenue to a   2014-23
                                                 point 70' east,
                                                 northeast of North
                                                 Windham Lane
                            Northbound           From dead end north  2014-35
Marklund  Prairie Avenue                         to Schick Road
                            Southbound           From Schick Road     2014-35
                                                 south to dead end
                                                 From a point 175'
                                                 south of Whitehall
                            Northbound           Terrace to a point   2014-23
                                                 70' south of Glen
Stratford Butterfield Drive                      Garry Drive
                                                 From a point 320'
                                                 south of Stratford
                            Southbound           Place Drive to a     2014-23
                                                 point 160' south of
                                                 Lakemont Court
                                                 From Bourne Lane to
                            Northbound           a point 500' north   77-61
          Fairfield Way                          of Schick Road
                                                 From a point 300'
                            Southbound           south of Lake Street 77-61
                                                 to Bourne Lane
                                                 From a point 500'
Westfield                                        west of Fairfield
                            Eastbound            Way to a point 500'  86-55
                                                 east of Euclid
          Schick Road                            Avenue
                                                 From a point 500'
                                                 east of Euclid
                            Westbound            Avenue to a point    86-55
                                                 500' west of
                                                 Fairfield Way
                            Northbound           From Laurel Lane to  77-61
          Edgewater Drive                        Millcreek Lane
                            Southbound           From Millcreek Lane  77-61
Winnebago                                        to Laurel Lane
                            Eastbound            From Plymouth Lane   77-61
          Greenway Drive                         to Edgewater Drive
                            Westbound            From Edgewater Drive 77-61
                                                 to Hemstead Lane
 
      3.   Park Zones: No person shall drive a vehicle within the following
park zones at a speed which exceeds twenty (20) miles per hour:
 
Park                  Street              Location                  Ordinance
Bloomingdale park
district Johnston     South Circle Avenue From Schick Road south to 2017-01
Recreational Facility                     dead end
property
 
   C.   Twenty Five Miles Per Hour: No person shall drive any vehicle upon any
of the following streets at a speed in excess of twenty five (25) miles per
hour:
Alsace Court.
Alyssa Court.
Amberwood Court.
Annalisa Court.
Aprina Court.
Arbor Lane.
Argyle Avenue.
Ashfield Court.
Ashley Way.
Barron Drive.
Bedford Lane.
Benton Lane.
Biarritz Court.
Biscayne Court.
Biscayne Street.
Bloomfield Circle.
Bloomfield Lane.
Bloomfield Parkway.
Bobolink Drive.
Bobwhite Court.
Bobwhite Lane.
Bourne Lane.
Braintree Drive.
Brentwood Court.
Bridgewater Lane.
Broker Road, from Circle to Highland.
Brookdale Drive.
Bunting Lane.
Byron Avenue.
Cambridge Lane.
Canterbury Court.
Cardinal Drive.
Carey Court.
Carlton Drive.
Carmela Court.
Carriage Way.
Castlerock Lane.
Cavalry Drive.
Cayuga Court.
Chambord Court.
Chelsea Street.
Chesapeake Lane.
Circle Avenue North.
Circle Avenue South.
Clare Drive.
Cloverdale Road.
Clubhouse Lane.
Collin Circle.
Colony Court.
Constitution Drive.
Country Club Drive.
Coventry Court.
Creekside Drive.
Crest Court.
Crestwood Lane.
Cunningham Drive.
Cunningham Lane.
Dawn Court.
Day Street.
Dee Court.
Deer Glen Way.
DePinto.
DeTrevi.
Dijon Court.
Dinah Road.
Donald Drive.
Donmor Drive.
Donna Lane.
Douglas Drive.
Dover Court.
Downing Drive.
Dublin Road.
Durham Lane.
Eagle Court.
Eagle Lane.
Edgebrook Drive.
Edgewater Court.
Edgewater Drive.
Eric Court.
Erie Circle.
Erie Court.
Esprit Court.
Essex Court.
Euclid Avenue.
Euclid Court.
Evergreen Lane.
Fairfield Court.
Fairfield Way.
Faith Court.
Falcon Court.
Felicia Court.
Fernwood Lane.
Fessler Drive.
Fonatine Court.
Founders Pointe.
Founders Pointe North.
Founders Pointe South.
Fox Court.
Franklin Street.
Freeport Drive.
Fremont Court.
Frisco Court.
Frisco Street.
Galway Court.
Garden Way.
Greenfield Drive.
Greenway Drive.
Hancock Drive.
Harvard Lane.
Hawthorne Drive.
Hearthside.
Hedgerow Drive.
Hempstead Drive.
Hempstead Lane.
Hillandale Court.
Hillandale Drive.
Hillcrest Terrace.
Hingham Lane.
Huron Drive.
Independence Lane.
Ironwood Lane.
Ivy Lane.
Jackson Lane.
Jason Court.
Jefferson Lane.
Jorrie Lane.
Juliana Lane.
Juniper Lane.
Kensington Court.
Killdeer Road.
Kingston Lane.
Knollwood Drive.
Lakemont Court.
Lakeview Court.
Lakeview Drive.
Lakeview Lane.
Lakewoods Court.
Langton Court.
Langton Drive.
Langton Lane.
Larchmont Lane.
Lawrence Avenue.
Lehigh Lane.
Leslie Lane
Lockwood Lane.
Longridge Drive.
Lori Court.
Lorraine Circle.
Los Lagos Drive.
Lynbrook Drive.
Lynwood Circle.
Lynwood Lane.
Madsen Drive.
Manor Lane.
Maple Avenue North.
Maple Avenue South.
Maple Court.
Martin Court.
Martin Lane.
Mayo Lane.
Meadowlark Road.
Michigan Court.
Michigan Drive.
Millford Court.
Millford Lane.
Mission Court.
Montabello.
Montego Court.
Morningside Drive.
Needham Drive.
Nordic Road.
North Bristol Drive.
North Manchester Lane.
North Sherwood Circle.
North Windham Lane.
North Windsor Circle.
Northwood Lane.
Norton Drive.
Norton Lane.
Oak Street.
Old Gary Avenue.
Old Mill Lane.
Oneida Court.
Orchard Lane.
Oriole Street.
Ostego Court.
Oxford Court.
Oxford Lane.
Oxford Place.
Park Avenue.
Parkway Avenue.
Pebble Creek.
Pheasant Court.
Pheasant Lane.
Picton Road, from Bloomingdale Road to Roselle Boundary.
Pleasant Avenue North.
Pleasant Avenue South.
Plymouth Lane.
Prairie Avenue North.
Prairie Avenue South.
Radcliffe Court.
Raven Lane.
Redbird Court.
Redbird Road.
Redwing Court.
Regency Drive.
Ridge Avenue.
Ridgewood Drive.
Robin Court.
Rodenburg Road.
Rose Drive.
Rosedale Court.
Rosedale Road.
Royal Court.
Royal Lane.
Royce Court.
Royce Drive.
St. Francis Court.
Salem Court.
Salt Lake Drive.
Saranac Court.
Scenic Drive.
Schick Road, between Bloomingdale Road and Glen Ellyn Road.
Schick Road, east of Bloomingdale Road.
Seneca Trail.
Sicilia.
Signature Drive.
Skylark Drive.
Spring Valley Road.
Springbrook Drive.
Springdale Lane.
Stanyon Court.
Stanyon Lane.
Starling Court.
Sterling Court.
Sterling Drive.
Sterling Lane.
Stoneybrook Lane.
Stonington Drive.
Strathmore Court.
Strathmore Lane.
Sunset Terrace.
Superior Drive.
Surrey Drive.
Surrey Lane.
Sutherland Lane.
Sutton Court.
Swallow Avenue.
Tamarack Drive.
Tanager Drive.
Tee Lane.
Terry Lane.
Thorn Road.
Thrasher Street.
Torrington Drive.
Toscana.
Tuttle Drive.
Valley View Road.
Veneto.
Versailles Court.
Villa Way.
Walter Court.
Warren Avenue.
Warwick Lane.
Washington Street.
Wedgefield Lane.
Wedgewood Circle.
Wellington Drive.
Wendover Drive.
Wentworth Circle.
Wentworth Lane.
West Bristol Court.
West Hampshire Court.
West Hampshire Drive.
West Road.
West Scarborough Court.
West Sheffield Drive.
West Windsor Drive.
Westminster Drive.
White Hall Terrace.
Wickham Avenue.
William Way.
Willow Bridge Way.
Wimdledon Place.
Windham Lane.
Winston Lane.
Woodcrest Court.
Woodland Way.
Woodside Drive.
Wren Drive.
First Street.
Third Street.
(Ord. 76-56, 9-13-1976; amd. Ord. 83-42, 12-29-1983; Ord. 92-21, 3-23-1992;
Ord. 95-46, 8-14-1995; Ord. 96-4, 1-22-1996; Ord. 97-26, 7-14-1997; Ord. 97-27,
7-14-1997; Ord. 2005-16, 4-11-2005; 2012 Code; Ord. 2022-37, 9-26-2022)
   D.   Thirty Miles Per Hour: No person shall drive any vehicle upon any of
the following streets at a speed in excess of thirty (30) miles per hour:
Butterfield Drive.
Glen Ellyn Road, between Army Trail Road and Lake Street.
(Ord. 76-49, 7-26-1976; amd. 2012 Code)
   E.   Thirty Five Miles Per Hour: No person shall drive any vehicle upon any
of the following streets at a speed in excess of thirty five (35) miles per
hour:
Brighton Drive.
Camden Drive.
Covington Drive.
Schick Road (East) (between Bloomingdale Road and Gary Avenue).
Scott Drive.
Springfield Drive.
(Ord. 92-37, 6-22-1992; amd. 2012 Code)
7-3-5: ONE-WAY STREETS AND AREAS:
   A.   Streets Generally:
 
Street            Location/Days And Hours               Direction Ordinance
Bloomfield Circle Between 335 and 343 Bloomfield Circle Westbound 92-21
 
   B.   Divided Streets:
 
Divided Street     Location Of One-Way Traffic                     Ordinance
Colony Green Drive Along and upon and to the right side of the     77-20
                   drainage ditch which divides Colony Green Drive
 
   C.   Other Areas:
 
                             Location       Direction Ordinance
Westfield School parking lot North entrance Eastbound 78-41
                            South entrance Westbound 78-41
 
7-3-6: PARKING:
7-3-6-1: PARKING PROHIBITED ON SPECIFIC STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any vehicle to permit such
vehicle to stand in any of the following streets, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or when otherwise directed by a police
officer or traffic control device:
Street Side Location Ordinance
Street                Side  Location                                  Ordinance
Acorn Lane                                                           77-20
Applewood Lane                                                       77-20
Bayview Court                                                        77-20
Birchwood Lane                                                       77-20
Bloomingdale Road                                                    76-49
Clearbrook Lane                                                      77-20
Colony Green Drive                                                   77-20
Driftwood Lane                                                       77-20
Edgewater Drive       North Between Bloomingdale Road and Glen Ellyn  76-49
                            Road
                     South Between Bloomingdale Road and Oxford      76-56
                            Court
                     South Between Bloomingdale Road and Oxford Lane 76-49
Elmwood Lane                                                         77-20
Fairfield Way               Between Lake Street on the north and      77-8
                            Schick Road on the south
                     Both  Between Millford Lane and Bloomingdale    77-20
                            Road
Glen Ellyn Road             Between Army Trail Road and Lake Street   76-49
                           From Schick Road to Lake Street           91-6
Harbor Court                                                         77-20
Lake Street (U.S. 20)                                                76-49
Lakeshore Lane                                                       77-20
Laurel Lane                                                          77-20
Millcreek Lane                                                       77-20
North Circle Avenue   Both  Within 250 feet from the painted stop bar 86-22
                            at Lake Street (U.S. 20)
Oakwood Lane                                                         77-20
Pinewood Lane                                                        77-20
Schick Road                 Between Gary Avenue and Bloomingdale Road 76-49
South Circle Avenue   West  Between Schick Road and 172 South Circle  2003-36
                            Avenue, the Johnston recreation center
Spring Court                                                         77-20
Springfield Drive                                                    85-26
Willow Lane                                                          77-20
Winston Lane          West  Between Edgewater Drive and Fairfield Way 76-56
 
7-3-6-2: TIME LIMIT PARKING:
   A.   One Hour:
 
Street              Location                             Ordinance
North Circle Avenue From Lake Street to East Park Avenue 76-56
 
7-3-6-3: SCHOOLS:
   A.   During School Hours: Between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and
four o'clock (4:00) P.M., Monday through Friday, both inclusive, except legal
holidays, and during the months of July and August each year, parking is
prohibited at the following locations:
 
School    Street        Location                                      Ordinance
                        From a point 20 feet south of the south
Westfield Fairfield Way entrance to the parking lot, north to a point 78-41
                        100 feet north of the north entrance to the
                        parking lot
 
   B.   Other Specific Locations:
      1.   Winnebago School:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
permit any vehicle to stop, stand or park in the semicircular one-way drive
entrance of the Winnebago School in the village; said semicircular one-way
drive being that drive which is connected to Greenway Drive, a public street,
by the two (2) westernmost access curb breaks located upon the school property
and being the principal entrance to the Winnebago School.
         b.   School buses, police and fire vehicles and all other emergency
vehicles are hereby expressly exempt from this subsection B1. (Ord. 76-14, 3-8-
1976)
         c.   Any person, firm or corporation found guilty of violating this
subsection B1 shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. 76-14, 3-8-1976; amd. 2012 Code)
7-3-6-4: PARKING WITHIN A BUSINESS PARK:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to protect the public health,
safety, general welfare and best interests of the residents of the village by
provisions designed:
      1.   To increase safety and lessen congestion on public streets;
      2.   To meet the need for loading and parking facilities generated by the
development of land and the associated increase of automobile and truck usage;
      3.   To minimize the on street parking of vehicles;
      4.   To require adequate protection for contiguous property against
undesirable effects from the creation and operation of parking areas and
adjacent public streets; and
      5.   To protect and preserve the appearance and character of business
parks within the village through the elimination of on street parking of motor
vehicles.
   B.   Prohibited Parking Streets Designated: No parking of vehicles,
including trailers (whether idling; standing; queued for loading, unloading or
delivery; attended; unattended; occupied; unoccupied; with the engine operating
or not operating) is allowed at any time on any day on any of the public
streets located within a business park, identified as follows:
   Brighton Drive.
   Camden Drive.
   Covington Drive.
   Fox Court.
   Madsen Drive.
   Scott Drive.
   C.   Temporary Parking Permits: The village reserves the right, through the
police department, to issue temporary parking permits, upon request, to allow
limited on street parking for special events or occasions for a duration not to
exceed eight (8) hours.
   D.   Violations; Vehicle Impoundment And Tow: A vehicle violating this
section shall be subject to immediate impoundment and towing at the direction
of the village police department. (Ord. 2002-07, 2-25-2002)
   E.   Penalties:
      1.   Any person violating the terms and conditions of this section shall
be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
      2.   The penalty shall be assessed against the owner or operator of the
vehicle. (Ord. 2002-07, 2-25-2002; amd. 2012 Code)
7-3-6-5: SPECIFIC PARKING SIGNS POSTED:
Parking signs shall be installed at the following locations in the village:
Street Location Of No Parking Signs/ No Location Of Permitted Parking Ordinance
       Parking Provisions               Signs
                   Location Of No Parking   Location Of Permitted
Street             Signs/ No Parking        Parking Signs             Ordinance
                   Provisions
                   Southwest and northeast
Amherst Court      corners - "No Parking In                          76-45
                   This Court" signs
Bradley Court      Southwest, east and      Midpoint on the south     76-45
                   northwest corners        side
Carthage           Southwest and northeast  Southwest side            76-45
                   corners
                   No parking in front of
                   185 College Drive to the
                   right of the planter, no
                   parking in front of the
                   planter, to the south of
                   186 and 188 Lincoln      East of 205 College
College Drive      Court, in front of 203   Drive, to the east of 305 76-45
                   College Drive, to the    Milton Court
                   east of 241, 243, and
                   242 Milton Court. No
                   parking along the entire
                   south side of College
                   Drive
                   Southernmost,
Dartmouth          northernmost and         Northwest corridor        76-45
                   southwest corners
                   Northernmost corner and
Emerson Court      the midpoint on the east                          76-45
                   - "No Parking In This
                   Court" signs
                   Northwest corner - "No
Fairchild Court    Parking In This Court"                            76-45
                   sign
                   No parking on the west
Georgetown Court   side, southeast corner                            76-45
                   and northeast corridor
                   No parking at the
Hampton Court      northwest and northeast  Southern corridor         76-45
                   corners
Kendall Court      Entrance - 2 no parking                           76-45
                   signs
                   No parking at the        Western and northern
Lincoln Court      southeastern and         corridors                 76-45
                   northwestern corners
                   No parking at the
Milton Court       northwest and northeast  Eastern corridor          76-45
                   corners
                   No parking at the
Northwestern Court northwest, northeast and Eastern corridor          76-45
                   southeast corners
 
Any person, firm or corporation convicted of violating the provisions of this
section shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. (Ord. 76-45, 7-26-1976; amd. 2012 Code)
7-3-7: TURNING MOVEMENTS:
   A.   Right Turns Prohibited:
      1.   At Red Light: Right hand turns on red are prohibited at the
following locations in the Village:
 
From                       To                    Ordinance
Glen Ellyn Road northbound Lake Street eastbound 92-21
 
   B.   Left Turns Restricted: It shall be unlawful for the operator of any
vehicle to turn left at the following intersections, except as specified
herein: (Ord. 88-52, 12-12-1988)
      1.   Between the hours of four thirty o'clock (4:30) P.M. and six thirty
o'clock (6:30) P.M., Monday through Friday, except for school buses operating
in their official capacity, from westbound Byron to southbound Glen Ellyn Road.
Any person violating the terms and conditions of this subsection B1 shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each and every violation hereof. (Ord. 88-52, 12-12-
1988; amd. 2012 Code)
      2.   Between four o'clock (4:00) P.M. and six thirty o'clock (6:30) P.M.,
Monday through Friday:
 
From                     To                                        Ordinance
                         Springbrook Drive westbound               93-36
Fairfield Way northbound West truck access serving the Springbrook 93-36
                         Shopping Center
 
7-3-8: SIGNS POSTED:
The Director of Public Works and the Village Engineer is hereby authorized to
install appropriate traffic control signs as provided by law pursuant to the
provisions imposed by this chapter. (2012 Code; amd. Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
CHAPTER 4
BICYCLES
SECTION:
7-4-1: Application And Definitions
7-4-2: Traffic Laws Apply; Obedience Required
7-4-3: Operation Of Bicycles
7-4-4: Equipment
7-4-5: Low-Speed Electric Bicycles
7-4-6: Violations; Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian
7-4-1: APPLICATION AND DEFINITIONS:
   A.   Application of Provisions. The regulations contained in this chapter
are applicable to bicycles and low-speed electric bicycles; and shall apply
whenever either are operated upon any highway, street, or roadway authorized
for use of the same, subject to any exceptions therein stated.
   B.   Definitions. For purposes of this Chapter, the terms listed below shall
be defined as follows:
BICYCLE: Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having two tandem wheels except scooters and similar devices.
LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE: A bicycle equipped with fully operable pedals and
an electric motor of less than seven hundred fifty (750) watts that meets the
requirements of one of the following classes:
   1. CLASS 1 LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE means a low-speed electric bicycle
equipped with a motor that provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling
and that ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed of
twenty (20) miles per hour.
   2. CLASS 2 LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE means a low-speed electric bicycle
equipped with a motor that may be used exclusively to propel the bicycle and
that is not capable of providing assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed of
twenty (20) miles per hour.
    3. CLASS 3 LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE means a low-speed electric bicycle
equipped with a motor that provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling
and that ceases to provide assistance when the bicycle reaches a speed of
twenty-eight (28) miles per hour.
A LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLE is not a moped or a motor drive cycle. (Ord. 76-
49, 7-26-1976; amd. Ord. 2025-22, 4-8-2025)
7-4-2: TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY; OBEDIENCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Every person riding a bicycle upon a street shall conform to the
traffic laws and regulations of the village and the state of Illinois
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except as to special regulations in this
chapter and those provisions of laws and ordinances which, by their nature, can
have no application to bicycles.
   B.   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic control signals, signs, and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   C.   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right, left or
U-turns are permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle
to make any such turn, and in that event, such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians. (Ord. 76-49, 7-26-1976; amd. Ord. 2025-
22, 4-8-2025)
7-4-3: OPERATION OF BICYCLES:
   A.   Riding On Bicycles:
      1.   A person operating a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
      2.   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
   B.   Riding On Streets And Bicycle Paths:
      1.   Every person operating a bicycle upon a street shall ride as near to
the right hand side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
      2.   Persons riding a bicycle upon streets shall not ride more than two
(2) abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive
use of bicycles.
      3.   Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
street, riders shall use such path and shall not use the street.
   C.   Speed Limit: No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than
is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing.
   D.   Emerging From Alley, Driveway Or Building: The operator of a bicycle
emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall, upon approaching the
sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, yield the right of
way to all pedestrians approaching on said sidewalk or sidewalk area, and upon
entering the street, shall yield the right of way to all approaching vehicles.
   E.   Clinging To Vehicles Prohibited: No person riding upon any bicycle
shall attach the same or himself to any moving vehicle.
   F.   Carrying Articles: No person operating a bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle or article which prevents the rider from keeping at least one
hand upon the handlebars.
   G.   Parking Regulations: No person shall park a bicycle upon a street at
any time, or upon the sidewalk except in a rack designed to support the
bicycle, or against a building in such manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
   H.   Riding On Sidewalks:
      1.   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a business
district.
      2.   When public safety requires it, the chief of police is authorized to
erect signs on any sidewalk or street prohibiting the riding of bicycles
thereon, and no person shall disobey the signs.
      3.   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, such person
shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian, and shall give audible signal
before overtaking and passing such pedestrian. (Ord. 76-49, 7-26-1976; amd.
Ord. 2025-22, 4-8-2025)
7-4-4: EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Lights And Reflectors: Every bicycle, when operated at nighttime, shall
be equipped with a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light, visible at
a distance of at least five hundred feet (500') to the front, and with a red
reflector on the rear which shall be visible in the beams of headlights on
motor vehicles at all distances from fifty feet (50') to three hundred feet
(300'). A lamp emitting a red light which is visible from a distance of five
hundred feet (500') may be used in addition to the red reflector.
   B.   Signal Device: No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped
with a bell or other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance
of at least one hundred feet (100'); except, that no bicycle shall be equipped
with, nor shall any person use upon a bicycle, any horn or whistle.
   C.   Brake: Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable
the operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement. (Ord.
76-49, 7-26-1976; amd. Ord. 2025-22, 4-8-2025)
7-4-5: LOW-SPEED ELECTRIC BICYCLES:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided in this Section, the provisions of this
Chapter that apply to bicycles also apply to low-speed electric bicycles.
   B.   License and Labels. Each low-speed electric bicycle operating within
the Village shall at all times display the manufacturer and distributor labels
required by applicable law.
   C.   Riding On Streets: Every person operating a low-speed electric bicycle
upon a street shall:
      1.   Ride as near to the right-hand side of the roadway as practicable,
exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the
same direction.
      2.   Not ride more than two (2) abreast.
      3.   Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
street, riders shall use such path and shall not use the street unless
otherwise prohibited by this Chapter.
   D.   Riding on Bicycle Paths: The operation of Class 2 low-speed electric
bicycles and Class 3 low-speed electric bicycles upon any bicycle path is
strictly prohibited. No person shall operate a low-speed electric bicycle on
any bicycle path at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the
conditions then existing.
   E.   Riding On Sidewalks: A person may not operate a low-speed electric
bicycle on a sidewalk.
   F.   Class 3 Low-Speed Electric Bicycles: A person may operate a Class 3
low- speed electric bicycle only if he or she if sixteen (16) years of age or
older. A person who is less than sixteen (16) years of age may ride as a
passenger on a Class 3 low-speed electric bicycle that is designed to
accommodate passengers.
   G.   Equipment.
      1.   Every low-speed electric bicycle, when operated at nighttime, shall
be equipped with a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light, visible at
a distance of at least five hundred feet (500') to the front, and with a red
lamp on the rear which shall emit a red light, visible from a distance of five
hundred feet (500") to the rear.
      2.   Helmet Requirement:
         a.   All operators and passengers of class 3 electric bicycles under
the age of eighteen (18) shall wear a properly fitted and fastened bicycle
helmet that meets the standards provided by either the United States Consumer
Product Safety Commission or the American Society for Testing and Materials, or
standards subsequently established by those entities.
         b.   All operators and passengers of class 1 or 2 electric bicycles
under the age of sixteen (16) shall wear a property fitted and fastened bicycle
helmet that meets the standards provided by either the United States Consumer
Product Safety Commission or the American Society for Testing and Materials, or
standards subsequently established by those entities. (Ord. 2025-22, 4-8-2025)
7-4-6: VIOLATIONS; RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN:
   A.   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to do any act forbidden or
fail to perform any act required by this chapter.
   B.   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2025-22, 4-8-2025)
CHAPTER 5
SNOWMOBILES
SECTION:
7-5-1: State Regulations Adopted
7-5-2: Prohibited Hours
7-5-3: Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian
7-5-4: Penalty
7-5-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
A certain public record, the "snowmobile registration and safety act" 1 , three
(3) copies of which are on file in the office of the village clerk, is hereby
adopted by this reference and incorporated herein as fully and to the same
extent as if set out at length herein, as the regulations governing the use,
operation, and equipment of snowmobiles in the village. (Ord. 72-39, 8-23-1972;
amd. 2012 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 40/1-1 et seq.
7-5-2: PROHIBITED HOURS:
It shall be unlawful to operate any snowmobile on private property between the
hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. daily. (Ord.
72-39, 8-23-1972)
7-5-3: RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN:
It shall be unlawful for a parent, legal guardian, or other person to knowingly
permit any person in his custody or control under the age of eighteen (18)
years to violate any provision of this chapter. (Ord. 72-39, 8-23-1972)
7-5-4: PENALTY:
Any person who shall be convicted of violating any provision of this chapter
shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. 72-39, 8-23-1972; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 6
ABANDONED, LOST, STOLEN OR UNCLAIMED VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-6-1: Abandonment Prohibited; Impoundment
7-6-2: Abandoned, Lost, Stolen Or Unclaimed Vehicles
7-6-3: Disposal Of Unclaimed Vehicles
7-6-1: ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED; IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Abandonment Prohibited: It is unlawful for any person to cause an
abandoned vehicle or any part thereof to remain on private or public property
anywhere in the village except on property of the owner or bailee of such
abandoned vehicle.
   B.   Impoundment:
      1.   Public Property: A vehicle or any part thereof so abandoned on
public property may be towed and removed in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
      2.   Private Property: A vehicle or any part thereof so abandoned on
private property may be authorized for removal by the police department upon a
request of the owner of record of such property in that instance or pursuant to
a private agreement previously entered into between such owner and the village.
(Ord. 2010-07, 3-8-2010)
7-6-2: ABANDONED, LOST, STOLEN OR UNCLAIMED VEHICLES:
   A.   When an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed vehicle comes into the
temporary possession or custody of a person in the village who is not the owner
of the vehicle, such person shall immediately notify the police department.
Upon receipt of such notification, the police department will authorize a
towing service to remove and take possession of the vehicle. The towing service
will safely keep the towed vehicle and its contents, maintain a record of the
tow until the vehicle is claimed by the owner or any other person legally
entitled to possession thereof or until it is disposed of as provided in this
chapter.
   B.   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned or partially dismantled
vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because of its position in relation to a
highway or street, or its physical appearance is causing the impeding of
traffic, its immediate removal from the highway or street, or private property
adjacent to the highway, by a towing service may be authorized by the police
department. (Ord. 2010-07, 3-8-2010)
7-6-3: DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES:
   A.   Any abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed vehicle of seven (7) years of
age or newer that remains unclaimed by the registered owner, lienholder or
other person legally entitled to the possession thereof for a period of thirty
(30) days after notice has been given in accordance with 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/4-208 shall be sold as after notice is provided in accordance with
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-208. When the identity of the registered
owner, lienholder or other person legally entitled to the possession of an
abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed vehicle of seven (7) years of age or newer
cannot be determined by: 1) the registration files of the state of Illinois or
registration files of a foreign state; or 2) the Illinois state police, the
vehicle may be sold as provided in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-208
without notice to such persons whose identity cannot be determined.
   B.   When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven (7) years of age is
impounded as specified by this chapter, it shall be kept in custody or storage
for a minimum of ten (10) days for the purpose of: 1) determining the identity
of the registered owner, lienholder, or other legally entitled persons; 2)
contacting the registered owner, lienholder, or other legally entitled persons
by U.S. mail and certified mail, return receipt requested, with a description
of the vehicle, the license plate and vehicle identification numbers for a
determination of disposition; and 3) an examination of the Illinois state
police stolen vehicle files for theft and wanted information. At the expiration
of such ten (10) day period, without the benefit of disposition information
being received from the registered owner, lienholder, or other legally entitled
persons, the police department may authorize the disposal of the vehicle as
junk or salvage.
   C.   Notwithstanding subsections A and B of this section, a vehicle
classified as an antique vehicle may be sold to a person desiring to restore
it. (Ord. 2010-07, 3-8-2010)
CHAPTER 7
IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-7-1: Definitions
7-7-2: Impoundment Authorized; Responsibility For Costs
7-7-3: Administrative Penalty; Vehicle Possession
7-7-4: Redemption Of Vehicle
7-7-5: Pretow Notice And Hearing Procedures
7-7-6: Posttow Hearing Procedures
7-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
stated in this section. Any term not defined herein shall have the meaning
ascribed thereto in other ordinances of the village, and if not defined in any
other village ordinances, it shall have the meaning ascribed thereto by the
Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-100 et seq.
ABANDONED VEHICLE: A. A vehicle parked or otherwise located on the public way
and:
      1.   In such state of disrepair that it is incapable of being driven; or
      2.   That has been unmoved for a period of at least twenty four (24)
hours and, because of its condition or the period during which it has not been
moved or some other circumstance, appears to have been, and will be presumed to
have been, abandoned by its owner; or
   B.   A vehicle defined as abandoned, or capable of being towed, by any other
ordinances of the village, and which does not constitute a "hazardous vehicle"
or "unlawful vehicle" as defined by this section and, therefore, is not subject
to an immediate tow.
HAZARDOUS VEHICLE: A. A vehicle that has been involved in an accident and is
inoperable or cannot be immediately moved by the owner or operator of the
vehicle; or
   B.   A vehicle that presents an immediate danger to the health or welfare of
the members of the public, as determined by the police department in its sole,
reasonable discretion; or
   C.   An abandoned or inoperable vehicle on a public street, way or alley
that is impeding the orderly flow of traffic or poses a potential danger to
pedestrians and/or operators of vehicles, as determined by the village in its
sole, reasonable discretion; or
   D.   A vehicle that must be moved to allow for proper municipal snow removal
from a public street, way or alley, as determined by the police department in
its sole, reasonable discretion; or
   E.   A vehicle that is parked in a fire lane, no parking zone, loading zone,
or other such area of prohibited or regulated parking on private property;
provided, that the village has entered into a specific agreement with the owner
of said property with respect to the enforcement of such violations.
OWNER OR REGISTERED OWNER: A person who holds legal title to the vehicle or the
right of possession of the vehicle.
VEHICLE: Any device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a street, highway or any public way, except devices
moved by human power, devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks,
and snowmobiles. (Ord. 2010-07, 3-8-2010)
7-7-2: IMPOUNDMENT AUTHORIZED; RESPONSIBILITY FOR COSTS:
   A.   The village police department is hereby authorized to cause a vehicle
to be towed, without prior notice to the registered owner and lienholder
thereof, if applicable, from any public way to the police department vehicle
storage lot or such other place of safety as determined and designated by the
police department when: 1) a vehicle upon any public way is so disabled as to
constitute an obstruction of traffic; 2) a vehicle or the driver thereof is
believed to have caused an offense identified hereinafter; 3) the vehicle is a
"hazardous vehicle", as defined in section
7-7-1 of this chapter, as determined and by the village police department in
its sole, reasonable discretion; 4) a vehicle is discovered to be stolen; 5) a
vehicle is illegally parked or appears to have been abandoned, as defined by
this chapter, and the registered owner and lienholder thereof, if applicable,
cannot be identified because the license plate and vehicle identification
numbers have been removed or otherwise made illegible; or 6) an emergency
arises necessitating the removal of a vehicle from any public way, as
determined by the police department in its sole, reasonable discretion.
   B.   When a vehicle is towed and removed from either public or private
property in accordance with this chapter, the registered owner of such vehicle
will be responsible for all applicable towing and storage costs. (Ord. 2010-07,
3-8-2010)
7-7-3: ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTY; VEHICLE POSSESSION:
   A.   A vehicle may be seized, towed and impounded by the village police
department without prior notice to the registered owner and lienholder thereof,
if applicable, when such vehicle or the operator thereof is believed to have
caused any of the following violations. The village shall not be liable for any
damage to any vehicle which occurs as a result of the towing and storage of any
vehicle under the provisions of this chapter. In addition to all applicable
towing and storage costs, an administrative penalty of five hundred dollars
($500.00) shall be imposed on the registered owner (but not a vehicle
lienholder or vehicle leasing company, in which case, the lessee of the vehicle
shall be responsible) of any such vehicle towed or impounded as a consequence
of the following violations. Such fee or bond posted in lieu thereof shall be
subject to refund or return, as the case may be, in the event of a finding of
no violation at a hearing conducted to contest such violation as further
prescribed in this chapter.
      1.   a. 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-303 (driving while driver's
license, permit or privilege to operate a motor vehicle is suspended or
revoked), as amended, except where said violation is in regard to a person
whose driver's license, permit or privilege to operate a motor vehicle is
suspended only for a violation of the emissions inspection laws as set forth in
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/13C-1 et seq., as amended;
         b.   625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-204 (fleeing or attempting to
elude a peace officer), as amended;
         c.   625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-401 (motor vehicle accidents
involving death or personal injuries), as amended;
         d.   625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-402 (motor vehicle accident
involving damage to vehicle), as amended;
         e.   625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-403 (duty to give information
and render aid), as amended;
         f.   625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-404 (duty upon damaging
unattended vehicle or other property), as amended;
         g.   625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-501 (driving under the
influence of alcohol, other drug or drugs, intoxicating compound or compounds
or any combination thereof), as amended;
         h.   625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-501.8 (a person under age 21
driving with a blood alcohol level greater than 0.00 - zero tolerance), as
amended;
         i.   625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-503 (reckless driving or
aggravated reckless driving), as amended;
         j.   625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-506 (street racing), as
amended; or
         k.   The stopping of a vehicle driven by a person against whom a
warrant has been issued by a circuit court for that person's failure to appear
to answer charges that such person was:
            (1)   Operating a motor vehicle while that person's license was
suspended or revoked in violation of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-303, as
amended; or
            (2)   Operating a motor vehicle while under the influence of
alcohol, other drug or drugs, intoxicating compound or compounds or any
combination thereof in violation of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-501, as
amended.
      2.   a. 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-6 (indecent solicitation of a
child), as amended;
         b.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-1 (assault), as amended;
         c.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-2 (aggravated assault), as
amended;
         d.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-3 (battery), as amended;
         e.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-4 (aggravated battery), as
amended;
         f.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-4.2 (aggravated battery with
a firearm), as amended;
         g.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-4.3 (aggravated battery of a
child), as amended;
         h.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-4.6 (aggravated battery of a
senior citizen), as amended;
         i.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/16A-3 (retail theft), as
amended, when the value of the merchandise exceeds one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00);
         j.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/18-1 (robbery);
         k.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/18-2 (armed robbery), as
amended;
         l.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/19-1 (burglary), as amended;
         m.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/19-3 (residential burglary), as
amended;
         n.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/20-1 (arson), as amended;
         o.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/20-1.1 (aggravated arson), as
amended;
         p.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/20-2 (possession of explosives
or explosive or incendiary devices), as amended;
         q.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-1 (criminal damage to
property), as amended; or
         r.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/25-1 (mob action), as amended.
      3.   a. 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 570/401 (manufacture or delivery
of a controlled substance), as amended;
         b.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 570/401.1 (controlled substance
trafficking), as amended; or
         c.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 570/402 (possession of a
controlled substance), as amended.
      4.   a. 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/4(d) (possession of more than
30 grams of any substance containing cannabis), as amended;
         b.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/5 (manufacture or delivery of
cannabis), as amended;
         c.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/5.1 (cannabis trafficking), as
amended;
         d.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/5.2 (delivery of cannabis on
school grounds), as amended; or
         e.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/8 (unauthorized production or
possession of Cannabis sativa plant), as amended.
      5.   a. 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-1 (unlawful use of weapons),
as amended;
         b.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-3.1 (unlawful possession of
firearms and firearm ammunition), as amended; or
         c.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-3.3 (unlawful sale or
delivery of firearms on the premises of any school), as amended.
This subsection A5 shall not apply when any of the exemptions set forth in 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-2, as amended, are met. (Ord. 2010-07, 3-8-
2010)
      6.   a. 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-14 (prostitution), as
amended;
         b.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-14.1 (solicitation of a
sexual act), as amended;
         c.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-18 (patronizing a
prostitute), as amended; or
         d.   720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-18.1 (patronizing a juvenile
prostitute), as amended. (Ord. 2010-07, 3-8-2010; amd. 2012 Code)
      7.   a. The motor vehicle is otherwise subject to seizure and impoundment
pursuant to 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/36-1 (seizure), as amended; or
         b.   A violation of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-101 (drivers
must have licenses or permits), as amended, except where the violation is for a
license which has been expired for less than twelve (12) months or for a
license which is invalid because of curfew (as in the case of a graduated
license); or
         c.   Any other felony violation, where the vehicle was used in the
commission of a crime.
   B.   The administrative penalty imposed pursuant to this section shall
constitute a debt due and owing the village. A vehicle towed and impounded
pursuant to this chapter shall remain impounded until:
      1.   The administrative penalty is paid to the village, and all
applicable towing fees at the prevailing rate charged for towing or moving the
vehicle to a place of safety or authorized garage, as applicable, are paid to
the towing agent; and if applicable, storage charges at the prevailing rate at
the garage in which said vehicle is stored are paid; in which case, the owner
of record shall be given possession of the vehicle; or
      2.   A bond in the amount of the administrative penalty is posted with
the police department to satisfy the administrative penalty, and all applicable
towing fees at the prevailing rate charged for towing or moving the vehicle to
a place of safety or authorized garage, as applicable, are paid to the towing
agent; and if applicable, storage charges at the prevailing rate at the garage
in which said vehicle is stored are paid, at which time, such vehicle will be
released to the owner of record thereof; or
      3.   The vehicle is deemed abandoned pursuant to the definition of
"abandoned vehicle" in section
7-7-1 of this chapter, in which case, the vehicle shall be disposed of in the
manner provided by law for the disposition of abandoned vehicles; or
      4.   A finding of impropriety is made at a posttow impoundment hearing as
to such towing and impoundment for which such administrative penalty was
imposed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2010-07, 3-8-
2010)
7-7-4: REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE:
Before the owner or person entitled to possession of any legally impounded
vehicle shall be permitted to remove same from the custody of the police
department, he shall:
   A.   Furnish evidence of his identity;
   B.   Show evidence of his ownership of the vehicle or right to possession
thereof;
   C.   Sign a receipt for the vehicle;
   D.   Show proof of having satisfied the village administrative penalty fee,
unless a finding of impropriety is made as to the towing for which such
administrative penalty was imposed, all as set forth in section
7-7-3 of this chapter;
   E.   Pay all vehicle storage charge(s) at the prevailing rate at the garage
in which the said vehicle is stored, if applicable, and furnish proof of such
payment satisfactory to the village; and
   F.   Pay the prevailing rate charged for towing or moving the vehicle to a
place of safety or authorized garage, as the case may be, and furnish proof of
such payment satisfactory to the village. (Ord. 2010-07, 3-8-2010)
7-7-5: PRETOW NOTICE AND HEARING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Notice And Hearing: Any vehicle that is subject to towing, other than a
towing for which no prior notice is required in accordance with this chapter,
shall have a tow notice applied thereto, and a pretow warning notice shall be
sent to the registered owner and the lienholder, if applicable. Such pretow
warning notice shall include a description of the vehicle, the license plate
and vehicle identification numbers (VIN), if available and legible, and notice
that a hearing as to the propriety of the towing will be granted, if requested.
If, after ten (10) days, there has been no response to the pretow warning
notice, the vehicle may be towed. A posttow notice shall be sent to the owner
and the lienholder, if applicable, no more than five (5) business days after
the vehicle is towed, and shall include a copy of the village tow order. This
notice must also include the opportunity for a posttow hearing. If a hearing is
requested after a vehicle is towed, it will be granted in accordance with the
posttow hearing procedures set forth in this chapter. All notices shall be
served by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the address of the
registered owner and lienholder, if applicable, of the vehicle as recorded with
the secretary of state of Illinois. If the vehicle is registered in a state
other than Illinois, the village police department shall send appropriate
notice in accordance with this chapter to the address of the registered owner
and lienholder, if applicable, as recorded in such other state registry of
motor vehicles.
   B.   Request For Preimpoundment Hearing: Requests for pre- impoundment
hearings are to be made to the police department and addressed to the chief of
police. The request must be in writing and be served on the police department
personally or by mail. Forms for such request shall be made available at the
police department.
   C.   Nature Of Preimpoundment Hearing; Hearing Officer: The hearing shall be
conducted by a hearing officer and be informal in nature. The rules of evidence
shall not apply. The hearing will not be determinative of or adjudicate any
citation issued, any criminal violation charged, or any ordinance violation
charged relative to the proposed tow and impoundment. After receiving all
relevant evidence, the hearing officer shall make a written decision based upon
the preponderance of the evidence as to whether the tow and impoundment of the
vehicle were authorized by this chapter. The owner of the vehicle shall be
provided with a copy of the written decision. The hearing officer shall have
the authority under applicable laws of the state of Illinois to conduct such
hearings. If a registered owner or lienholder requests a hearing but fails to
appear at such hearing, the hearing officer shall enter an order of default in
favor of the village in the amount of the hearing fee.
   D.   Scheduling Preimpoundment Hearing: If a preimpoundment hearing is
requested, it will be granted within five (5) business days after the request
for a hearing and held during normal business hours, unless the owner requests
a later date convenient to all parties. The hearing shall take place at
designated dates and times to be determined by the police department in
conjunction with the hearing officer. (Ord. 2010-07, 3-8-2010)
7-7-6: POSTTOW HEARING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Opportunity For Hearing: Provided that a pretow hearing was not first
held, the registered owner and the lienholder, if applicable, of a vehicle
impounded by or pursuant to the authority of the village police department, as
set forth in this chapter, shall be provided the opportunity for a
postimpoundment hearing to determine the validity of such impoundment and any
administrative penalty, towing or storage charges. Notice of such opportunity
for a hearing shall be provided within five (5) business days after a vehicle
is seized, towed and impounded pursuant to this chapter. Such posttow notice
shall include a description of the vehicle, the license plate and vehicle
identification numbers (VIN), if available and legible, and notice that a
hearing as to the propriety of the towing will be granted, if requested. All
notices shall be served by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
address of the registered owner and lienholder, if applicable, of the vehicle
as recorded with the secretary of state of Illinois. If the vehicle is
registered in a state other than Illinois, the village police department shall
send appropriate notice in accordance with this chapter to the address of the
registered owner and lienholder, if applicable, as recorded in such other state
registry of motor vehicles. The hearing will not be determinative of or
adjudicate any citation issued, any criminal violation charged, or any
ordinance violation charged relative to the impoundment. The owner shall be
deemed to have waived any right to a postimpoundment hearing, unless a hearing
is requested within fourteen (14) days of the mailing or delivery of the
postimpoundment notice, as provided in this section.
   B.   Request For Postimpoundment Hearing: Requests for postimpoundment
hearings are to be made to the village police department and addressed to the
chief of police. The request must be in writing and must be served on the
police department personally or by mail. Forms for such request shall be made
available at the police department.
   C.   Nature Of Hearing; Hearing Officer: The hearing shall be conducted by a
hearing officer and shall be informal in nature. The rules of evidence shall
not apply. The hearing will not be determinative of or adjudicate any citation
issued, any criminal violation charged, or any ordinance violation charged
relative to the impoundment. After receiving all relevant evidence, the hearing
officer shall make a written decision based upon the preponderance of the
evidence as to whether the impoundment and/or towing of the vehicle was
authorized by this chapter. The owner of the vehicle shall be provided with a
copy of the written decision. The hearing officer shall have the authority
under applicable laws of the state of Illinois to conduct such hearings. If the
hearing officer does not determine, by a preponderance of the evidence, that
the impoundment and/or towing of the vehicle was authorized by this chapter,
the officer shall enter a finding in favor of the owner and order the immediate
return of the vehicle and, if paid, administrative penalty, bond and/or hearing
fee, as the case may be. If a registered owner or lienholder requests a hearing
but fails to appear at such hearing, the hearing officer shall enter an order
of default in favor of the village in the amount of the administrative penalty
and hearing fee.
   D.   Scheduling Postimpoundment Hearing: If a postimpoundment hearing is
requested, it will be granted within ten (10) business days after the request
for a hearing and held during normal business hours, unless the owner requests
a later date convenient to all parties. The hearing shall take place at
designated dates and times to be determined by the police department in
conjunction with the hearing officer.
   E.   Hearing Fee: In addition to the administrative penalty imposed pursuant
to this chapter, any person found liable for such penalty following a hearing
on a contested violation regarding same shall further be subject to a fee of
fifty dollars ($50.00), which fee shall be: 1) separate and distinct from the
administrative penalty imposed for the towing and removal of a vehicle pursuant
to this chapter; and 2) imposed not as a penalty but instead to partially
offset those costs incurred by the village in the village's conduct of such
hearing. (Ord. 2010-07, 3-8-2010)
CHAPTER 8
REGULATION OF UNSCHEDULED BUS STOPS
SECTION:
7-8-1: Definitions
7-8-2: No Unscheduled Bus Stops
7-8-3: Application
7-8-4: Application Approval
7-8-5: Violations
7-8-6: Penalties
7-8-7: Seizure And Impoundment Of Bus
7-8-8: Administrative Tow Hearing
7-8-9: Requirements For Recovery Of A Seized And Impounded Bus
7-8-10: Posting Bond
7-8-11: Disposition Of An Unclaimed Bus
7-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
The terms used in this Section shall be defined as follows:
 
                             A request for approval to make a bus stop in the
                             Village on a form to be provided by the Director
APPLICATION:                 of Public Safety of the Village's Police
                             Department that meets all the requirements of this
                             Section.
                             A written notice signed by the Director of Public
APPROVAL:                    Safety which approves an application submitted in
                             conformance with this Section.
                             Any type of motor vehicle that is designed to
BUS:                         carry, or is actually carrying, more than ten (10)
                             individuals.
DIRECTOR:                    The Director of Public Safety.
                             Bus service that operates trips involving the
                             dropping off of passengers in the Village on a
REGULARLY SCHEDULED SERVICE: predictable and recurring basis, following a
                             schedule that is published in advance and
                             available to the general public, and provides
                             service in exchange for paying a fare.
                             Any location in the Village where individuals are
                             dropped off by a bus that originated from a
                             location outside of DuPage County, Illinois that
UNSCHEDULED BUS STOP:        is not providing regularly scheduled service and
                             not operating pursuant to the written approval as
                             provided for in this Section. (Ord. 2024-01, 1-8-
                             2024)
 
7-8-2: NO UNSCHEDULED BUS STOPS:
It shall be a violation of this chapter for the owner, operator, or driver of
any bus to make an unscheduled bus stop for the purpose of dropping off
passengers in the Village of Bloomingdale. (Ord. 2024-01, 1-8-2024)
7-8-3: APPLICATION:
The owner, operator, or driver of any bus that is not providing regularly
scheduled service that desires to make a bus stop to drop off passengers in the
Village shall file an application with the Director using a form to be prepared
by the Director. The completed application and all required information shall
be submitted to the Director at least five (5) calendar days prior to the date
of the proposed drop-off date. The application shall include and provide the
following information:
   A.   The full name, full address, and telephone numbers of the owner,
operator, and driver of the bus. The mobile phone number of the driver of the
bus shall also be provided.
   B.   The full name, full address, mobile and land-line telephone numbers of
the entity or individuals that has either directed, paid for, or financed the
transport of persons to be dropped off in the Village by the bus.
   C.   The full name of all persons that are proposed to be dropped-off in the
Village along with copies of ID's for said person to the extent such ID's exist
or are in the possession of the passengers.
   D.   The name, address, or location in the Village at which the Bus proposes
to drop off passengers.
   E.   The date and time at which the Bus passengers will be dropped off in
the Village which shall be from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:
00) P.M. on a Monday through Friday, excluding any holidays.
   F.   The name and address of all locations from which the passengers are
being picked-up for transport to the Village.
   G.   The full name, full address, mobile and land-line telephone numbers of
all entities or individuals that shall be present in the Village to meet the
bus and receive the passengers when they are dropped off.
   H.   A detailed plan identifying how the individuals being dropped off will
be cared for, housed, and fed, either temporarily or permanently, upon being
dropped off in the Village. The plan shall include the full names, full
addresses, and landline and mobile telephone numbers of all persons that will
be present at the date and time of the drop-off and responsible for the care,
housing and feeding of the passengers. The plan shall be signed by the entity
that agrees to be responsible for the care of the individuals and at least one
additional individual that will be present to receive the passengers and
responsible for their care. The entity and the individual that will present to
receive the passengers and be responsible for their care shall each by their
signature certify that they will be responsible for providing the actions
detailed in the plan. (Ord. 2024-01, 1-8-2024)
7-8-4: APPLICATION APPROVAL:
Upon receipt of an application pursuant to this Section, the Director shall
review same and undertake a review of the information contained in the
application to verify its truth and authenticity. If the application is not
complete, the Director shall, in writing, advise the applicant of the
additional items needed to complete the application. If within four (4)
calendar days after receiving a completed application, the Director, provided
he/she has not received any information that the application is false or untrue
in any manner, shall inform the applicant that the application is approved for
the stated location. The Director shall further provide a telephone number to
the applicant or driver to coordinate the arrival of the bus in the Village.
(Ord. 2024-01, 1-8-2024)
7-8-5: VIOLATIONS:
It shall be a violation of this Section for any individual or entity to violate
any of the terms of this Section and/or engage in the following actions:
   A.   The submission of an application that is false or untrue in any manner.
   B.   The failure of any entity or individual that is responsible for the
care, housing, or feeding of any passengers dropped-off in the Village to
implement or perform the detailed plan pursuant to the terms of an approved
application.
   C.   Making an unscheduled bus stop in the Village.
   D.   Initiating any bus transportation to the Village requires the approval
of the bus stop location without submitting an application or failing to obtain
approval of an application as required by this Section. (Ord. 2024-01, 1-8-
2024)
7-8-6: PENALTIES:
Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting, or
refusing to comply with, or resisting or opposing the enforcement of, any of
the provisions of this Section, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by
a fine of not less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) nor more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense. A separate and distinct offense
shall be regarded as committed each day upon which said person shall continue
any such violation or permit any such violation to exist after notification
thereof. The Village at its discretion may enforce this Section by: (1) a
quasi-criminal action seeking the payment of a monetary penalty adjudicated
under the Village's Administrative adjudication system; or (2) an action
seeking monetary and injunctive relief filed in the Circuit Court of DuPage
County or any other Court having jurisdiction over the violator. (Ord. 2024-01,
1-8-2024)
7-8-7: SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT OF BUS:
Whenever a police officer has reason to believe that a violation of this
Section has occurred the bus is subject to seizure and impoundment in addition
to any other monetary penalty or other remedy that may be pursued. The police
officer shall, in the exercise of discretion, provide for the towing of the bus
to a facility approved by the Police Department.
Upon the towing of a Bus, the police officer shall notify or make a reasonable
attempt to notify the owner of record, lessee, person claiming to be the owner
or lessee, or any person who is found to be in control of the vehicle at the
time of the alleged violation of the fact of the seizure and of the vehicle
owner's right to request an administrative hearing. (Ord. 2024-01, 1-8-2024)
7-8-8: ADMINISTRATIVE TOW HEARING:
Within five (5) business days after a bus is seized and impounded, the Village
shall notify, by personal service, first class mail, or certified mail, the
owner of record, lessee, and any lienholder of recorder of the owner's right to
request a hearing to determine whether a violation of this Section actually
occurred. The name and address of the person to whom a vehicle is registered as
shown on the records of the State in which the vehicle is registered shall be
conclusive evidence of the name and address of the owner of record of the
vehicle unless the owner of record gave the Village actual written notice of a
different name or address.
In order to obtain a hearing, the owner of record must file a written request
for a hearing with the Village of Bloomingdale Administrative Adjudication
court no later than ten (10) business days after the date the notice was
mailed. The hearing date must be scheduled for a date that is no more than
fifteen (15) business days after a request for a hearing has been filed. The
person requesting the hearing shall be given at least five (5) business days'
notice of the date of the hearing.
The hearing shall be conducted by a hearing officer appointed in accordance
with this Code's Administrative Hearing Procedures. The owner of the bus shall
have the right to be represented by an attorney; the right to notice of the
charges causing the seizure and impoundment of the bus; the right to present
witness and documentary evidence; and the right to cross-examine all witnesses.
If, after the hearing, the hearing officer determines, by a preponderance of
evidence, that a violation of this Section has occurred involving the seized
and impounded bus, then the hearing officer shall enter an order finding the
owner of record of the vehicle liable to the Village for the administrative
fees of seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00), which shall be in addition
to any other penalties, fines and remedy sought. If, after a hearing, the
hearing officer does not determine, by a preponderance of the evidence, that
the vehicle was used in violation of Section of this Code, the hearing officer
shall enter an order finding for the owner and ordering the return of the
vehicle.
If the owner of record fails to request a hearing on the seizure and
impoundment of the bus in a timely manner or fails to appear at the hearing,
the owner of record shall be deemed to have waived the owner's right to a
hearing, and the hearing officer may enter a default order in favor of the
Village in the amount of the administrative fees. However, if the owner of
record pays such penalty and the vehicle is returned to the owner, no default
order need be entered if the owner is informed of his or her right to a hearing
and signs a written waiver, in which case, an order of liability shall be
deemed to have been made when the Village receives the written waiver. (Ord.
2024-01, 1-8-2024)
7-8-9: REQUIREMENTS FOR RECOVERY OF A SEIZED AND IMPOUNDED BUS:
A vehicle impounded pursuant to this chapter shall remain impounded until:
   A.   The administrative fees of seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) is
paid to the Village and all applicable towing fees are paid to the towing
agent, in which case, the owner of record shall be given possession of the bus;
   B.   A bond in the amount of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) is posted
with the Village, and all applicable towing fees are paid to the towing agent,
at which time, the bus will be released to the owner of record; or
   C.   The bus is deemed abandoned, in which case, it shall be disposed of in
the manner provided by law for the disposition of abandoned vehicles. (Ord.
2024-01, 1-8-2024)
7-8-10: POSTING BOND:
If a bond in the amount of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) is posted with
the Police Department, the impounded bus shall be released to the owner of
record, and the owner of the bus shall still be liable to the towing agent for
any applicable towing fees.
If a after an Administrative Hearing on the seizure and impoundment of the bus,
it is determined that the bus was used in violation of this Section the posted
bond shall be forfeited to the Village; however, if a violation of this Section
is not proven by a preponderance of the evidence, the bond will be returned to
the person posting the bond, and all towing fees shall be waived.
All bond money posted pursuant to this chapter shall be held by the Village
until the hearing officer issues a decision or, if there is a judicial review,
until a final order is entered in the judicial proceeding in which review is
sought. (Ord. 2024-01, 1-8-2024)
7-8-11: DISPOSITION OF AN UNCLAIMED BUS:
Any bus that is not reclaimed or subject to judicial review within thirty-five
(35) days after the administrative hearing officer issues a final written
decision shall be deemed abandoned and disposed of as an unclaimed vehicle as
provided by law. (Ord. 2024-01, 1-8-2024)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES WITHIN PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY
SECTION:
8-1-1: Purpose; Scope; Interpretation
8-1-2: Definitions
8-1-3: Annual Registration Required
8-1-4: Permit Requirements
8-1-5: Insurance; Indemnity; Security
8-1-6: Change Of Ownership, Identity Or Legal Status
8-1-7: General Construction Standards
8-1-8: Traffic Control
8-1-9: Location Of Facilities
8-1-10: Construction Methods And Materials
8-1-11: Vegetation Control
8-1-12: Removal, Relocation Or Modifications Of Utility Facilities
8-1-13: Cleanup And Restoration
8-1-14: Maintenance And Repairs
8-1-15: Variances
8-1-16: Penalties
8-1-1: PURPOSE; SCOPE; INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights of way within the village
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the village
rights of way and the village as a whole.
   B.   Intent: In enacting this chapter, the village intends to exercise its
authority over the rights of way within the village and, in particular, the use
of the public ways and property by any utility, by establishing uniform
standards to address issues presented by a utility's facilities, including,
without limitation:
      1.   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
      2.   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      3.   Prevent interference with the operation of any village facilities
and of any other facilities lawfully located within the village rights of way;
      4.   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees and
landscaping, from the installation of facilities;
      5.   Protect against increased stormwater runoff due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      6.   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
      7.   Preserve open space, particularly the tree lined, landscaped
parkways that characterize the village residential neighborhoods;
      8.   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities within
the rights of way; and
      9.   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to facilities.
   C.   Scope: This chapter applies to all facilities on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across, or within the rights of way within the jurisdiction of the
village. A facility lawfully established prior to the effective date hereof may
continue to be maintained, repaired and operated by the utility as presently
constructed and located, except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable
franchise, license or similar agreement.
   D.   Franchises, Licenses And Similar Agreements:
      1.   The village, in its discretion and as limited by law, may require a
utility to enter into a franchise, license or similar agreement for the
privilege of locating its facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under,
across, or within the village rights of way. Any utility that is not required
by law to enter into such an agreement may request that the village enter into
such an agreement. In such an agreement, the village may provide for terms and
conditions inconsistent with this chapter.
      2.   In the event that a utility other than a telecommunications provider
has a franchise, license or similar agreement with the village, such franchise,
license or similar agreement shall govern and have control over the provisions
of this chapter during the term of such franchise, license or similar agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
      3.   In the event of any conflict with, or inconsistency between, the
provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any franchise, license or
similar agreement between the village and any telecommunications provider, the
provisions of such franchise, license or similar agreement shall govern and
control during the term of such agreement and any lawful renewal or extension
thereof.
   E.   Conflicting Provisions:
      1.   This chapter supersedes all ordinances or parts of ordinances
adopted by the village prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict.
      2.   In the event that applicable federal or state laws or regulations
conflict with the requirements of this chapter, each utility shall comply with
the requirements of this chapter to the maximum extent possible without
violating federal or state laws or regulations.
   F.   Sound Engineering Judgment: The village shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this chapter when the village so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the
village to regulate its rights of way for the protection of the public health,
safety and welfare. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008)
8-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter and unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the
words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
thereto in 92 Illinois administrative code section 530.30 unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
AASHTO: American Association Of State Highway And Transportation Officials.
ANSI: American National Standards Institute.
ASTM: American Society For Testing And Materials.
APPLICANT: A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
BACKFILL: The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a trench
or pit.
BORE OR BORING: To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the insertion
of a pipe or electrical conductor.
CABLE OPERATOR: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(5).
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(6).
CABLE SYSTEM: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(7).
CARRIER PIPE: The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be transported.
CASING: A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as a
carrier pipe, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
CLEAR ZONE: The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a nonrecoverable slope, and a clear runout area.
The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds and on the
roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO "Roadside Design
Guide".
COATING: Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
CODE: The village code of the village of Bloomingdale.
CONDUCTOR: Wire carrying electrical current.
CONDUIT: A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
CONSTRUCTION OR CONSTRUCT: The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
COVER: The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
CROSSING FACILITIES: Any facilities that cross one or more boundaries of a
right-of-way.
DISRUPT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY: Any work that obstructs the right- of-way or causes a
material adverse effect on the use of the right-of-way for its intended use.
Such work may include, without limitation, the following: excavating or other
cutting; placement (whether temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment,
devices, or structures; damage to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of
the soil, and shall not include the parking of vehicles or equipment in a
manner that does not materially obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
EMERGENCY: Any immediate maintenance to facilities required for the safety of
the public using or in the vicinity of the right-of-way, or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
ENCASEMENT: Provision of a protective casing.
EQUIPMENT: Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
EXCAVATION: The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying bare
by digging.
EXTRA HEAVY PIPE: Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
FACILITIES: All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including, but not
limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas, vaults,
boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits, grates,
covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances thereto) located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across, or within rights-of- way under this chapter. For
purposes of this chapter, the term "facilities" shall not include any
facilities owned or operated by the Village.
FREESTANDING FACILITIES: Any facilities that are not a crossing facility or a
parallel facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
FRONTAGE ROAD: Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent to
the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
Village Engineer to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to the life, health
or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance of the
environment, including, but not limited to, explosives, radioactive materials,
petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology (biological)
agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be hazardous or
toxic under any Federal or State law, statute or regulation.
HIGHWAY: A specific type of right-of-way used for vehicular traffic including
rural or urban roads or streets. "Highway" includes all highway land and
improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges, drainage
structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle, pedestrian and bicycle traffic.
HIGHWAY CODE: The Illinois highway code, 605 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101
et seq., as amended from time to time.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois cable and video
competition law, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
ICC: Illinois commerce commission.
IDOT: Illinois department of transportation.
JULIE: The joint utility locating information for excavators utility
notification program.
JACKING: Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means with
or without boring.
JETTING: Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to create
a cavity ahead of the pipe.
JOINT USE: The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by more than one
utility.
MAJOR INTERSECTION: The intersection of two (2) or more major arterial
highways.
OCCUPANCY: The presence of facilities on, over or under rights of way.
PARALLEL FACILITIES: Any facilities that are generally parallel or longitudinal
to the centerline of a right of way.
PARKWAY: Any portion of the right of way not improved by a street or sidewalk.
PAVEMENT CUT: The removal of an area of pavement for access to facilities or
for the construction of facilities.
PERMITTEE: That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to section
8-1-4 of this chapter.
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES: Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal slurry.
PRACTICABLE: That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than that
which is simply convenient.
PRESSURE: The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe, expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
PROMPT: That which is done within a period of time specified by the village. If
no time period is specified, the period shall be thirty (30) days.
PUBLIC ENTITY: A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at the local, state or federal level.
RESTORATION: The repair of a right of way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of facilities.
RIGHT OF WAY OR RIGHTS OF WAY: Any street, alley, other land or waterway,
dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar
purposes, including utility easements, in which the village has the right and
authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other
than those of the village. "Right of way" or "rights of way" shall not include
any real or personal village property that is not specifically described in
this definition and shall not include village buildings, fixtures and other
structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in the
right of way.
ROADWAY: That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for its use or consumption and not
for sale.
SECURITY FUND: That amount of security required pursuant to subsection 8-1-5C
of this chapter.
SHOULDER: A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT: A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: Includes, but is not limited to, messages or information
transmitted through the use of local, toll and wide area telephone service,
channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange
service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two-way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. "Private line" means a dedicated nontraffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
"Telecommunications" shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol
of the information for purposes other than transmission. "Telecommunications"
shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications
service provider for use as a component part of the service provided by such
provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end
to end communications. "Telecommunications" shall not include the provision of
cable services through a cable system as defined in the cable communications
act of 1984 (47 USC section 521 and following), as now or hereafter amended, or
cable or other programming services subject to an open video system fee payable
to the village through an open video system as defined in the rules of the
federal communications commission (47 CFR section 76.1500 and following), as
now or hereafter amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the right of way used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in making
sales of telecommunications at retail as defined in this section.
TRENCH: A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of underground
facilities.
UTILITY: The individual or entity owning or operating any facilities.
VENT: A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
VIDEO SERVICE: That term as defined in section 21-201(v) of the Illinois cable
and video competition law of 2007, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-201(v).
VILLAGE: The village of Bloomingdale.
VILLAGE ENGINEER: The Village Engineer or his or her designee.
WATER LINES: Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
WET BORING: Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-
28-2008; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
8-1-3: ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Every utility that occupies a right-of-way within the Village shall register on
January 1 of each year with the Village Engineer, providing the utility's name,
address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers, the name of one or
more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in connection with
emergencies involving the utility's facilities in the right-of-way and a twenty
four (24) hour telephone number for each such person, and evidence of insurance
as required in subsection 8-1-5A of this chapter, in the form of a certificate
of insurance. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-
2017)
8-1-4: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required; Exemptions: No person shall construct any facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within any Village right-of-way
which: 1) changes the location of the facilities within that right-of-way; 2)
adds new facilities; 3) disrupts the right-of way; or 4) materially increases
the amount of area or space occupied by the facilities on, over, above, along,
under, across or within the right-of-way without first filing an application
with the Village Engineer and obtaining a permit from the Village therefor,
except as otherwise provided in this chapter. No permit shall be required for
installation and maintenance of service connections to customer premises where
there will be no disruption of the right-of-way. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008; amd.
2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
   B.   Application For Permit:
      1.   All applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall be filed
on a form approved by and acceptable to the Village and shall be filed in such
number of duplicate copies as the Village may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as "proprietary" or
"confidential" by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
      2.   The application shall be made by the utility or its duly authorized
representative and shall contain, at a minimum, the following:
         a.   The utility's name, contact person, address, telephone and
telecopy numbers;
         b.   The applicant's name, contact person, and address, if different
than the utility, its telephone and telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and
interest in the work that is the subject of the applicant's application;
         c.   The names, contact persons addresses, telephone and telecopy
numbers and e-mail addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising
the applicant with respect to the application;
         d.   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facilities and the uses to which the facilities will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
         e.   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the Village:
            (1)   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the "Illinois Manual
On Uniform Traffic Control Devices", to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
            (2)   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature
of potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the Village and shall
promote protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with
ICC regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with
this section unless the Village finds that additional information or assurances
are needed;
         f.   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
         g.   Evidence of insurance as required in subsection 8-1-5A of this
chapter;
         h.   Evidence of posting of the Security Fund as required in
subsection 8-1-5C of this chapter;
         i.   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter (see section
8-1-15 of this chapter); and
         j.   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
Village.
      3.   In addition to the requirements of subsection B2 of this section,
the permit application shall include the following items, as applicable to the
specific utility that is the subject of the permit application:
         a.   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any "certificate of public
convenience and necessity" or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
         b.   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
         c.   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, Division of Public Water Supplies,
have been satisfied;
         d.   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land
and water pollution requirements of the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency, Division of Water Pollution Control, have been satisfied; or
         e.   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or
types of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the
design standard to be followed.
      4.   Throughout the entire permit application review period and the
construction period authorized by the permit, any amendments to information
contained in a permit application shall be submitted by the utility in writing
to the Village within thirty (30) days after the change necessitating the
amendment.
   C.   Fees; Exemption: Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be accompanied by a fee in the amount of two hundred dollars ($200.00). No
application fee is required to be paid by any electricity utility that is
paying the Municipal electricity infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the
Electricity Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Law. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008)
   D.   Action On Applications:
      1.   Review Of Applications; Grant Or Denial Of Permit: Completed permit
applications, containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the
Village Engineer within a reasonable time after filing. If the application does
not conform to the requirements of applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules,
and regulations, the Village Engineer shall reject such application in writing,
stating the reasons therefor. If the Village Engineer is satisfied that the
proposed work conforms to the requirements of this chapter and applicable
ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations, the Village Engineer shall
issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable. In all instances, it shall be
the duty of the applicant to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Village
Engineer, that the construction proposed under the application shall be in full
compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      2.   Additional Village Review Of Telecommunications Retailers'
Applications:
         a.   Pursuant to section 4 of the Telephone Company Act, 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 65/4, a telecommunications retailer shall notify the Village
that it intends to commence work governed by this chapter for facilities for
the provision of telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of
plans, specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the
purpose and intent of the facilities, and shall be provided by the
telecommunications retailer to the Village not less than ten (10) days prior to
the commencement of work requiring no excavation and not less than thirty (30)
days prior to the commencement of work requiring excavation. The Village
Engineer shall specify the portion of the right- of-way upon which the
facilities may be placed, used and constructed.
         b.   In the event that the Village Engineer fails to provide such
specification of location to the telecommunications retailer within either: 1)
ten (10) days after service of notice to the Village by the telecommunications
retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for new construction; or
2) twenty five (25) days after service of notice by the telecommunications
retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new construction, the
telecommunications retailer may commence work without obtaining a permit under
this chapter. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-
2017)
         c.   Upon the provision of such specification by the Village, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to subsection A of this section, the
telecommunications retailer shall submit to the Village an application for a
permit and any and all plans, specifications and documentation available
regarding the facilities to be constructed. Such application shall be subject
to the requirements of subsection D1 of this section.
      3.   Additional Review Of Holders Of State Authorization Under The Cable
And Video Competition Law: Applications by a utility that is a holder of a
State issued authorization under the Cable and Video Competition Law of 2007
shall be deemed granted forty five (45) days after submission to the Village,
unless otherwise acted upon by the Village, provided the holder has complied
with all applicable Village codes, ordinances, and regulations.
   E.   Effect Of Permit:
      1.   A permit from the Village authorizes a permittee to undertake only
certain activities in accordance with this chapter on Village rights-of-way,
and does not create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to
impinge upon the rights of others who may have an interest in the rights-of-
way.
      2.   No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a period
longer than six (6) months unless construction is actually begun within that
period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-
2008)
      3.   No construction shall begin pursuant to a permit issued under this
chapter prior to attendance by the permittee and all major contractors and
subcontractors who will perform any work under the permit at a preconstruction
meeting. The preconstruction meeting shall be held at a date, time and place
designated by the Village Engineer with such Village representatives in
attendance as the Village deems necessary. The meeting shall be for the purpose
of reviewing the work under the permit and reviewing special considerations
necessary in the areas where work will occur including, without limitation,
presence or absence of other facilities in the area and their locations,
procedures to avoid disruption of other facilities, use of rights-of-way by the
public during construction, and access and egress by adjacent property owners.
(Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
      4.   The issuance of a permit by the Village does not excuse the
permittee from complying with other requirements of the Village and applicable
statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
   F.   Revised Permit Drawings: In the event that, upon construction, the
actual locations of any facilities deviate in any material respect from the
locations identified in the plans, drawings and specifications submitted with
the permit application, the permittee shall submit a revised set of drawings or
plans to the Village within ninety (90) days after the completion of the
permitted work. The revised drawings or plans shall specifically identify where
the locations of the actual facilities deviate from the locations approved in
the permit. If any deviation from the permit also deviates from the
requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated as a request for variance in
accordance with section
8-1-15 of this chapter. If the Village denies the request for a variance, then
the permittee shall either remove the facilities from the right-of-way or
modify the facilities so as to conform to the permit and submit revised
drawings or plans therefor.
   G.   Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit:
      1.   Grounds: The Village may revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant
to this chapter for one or more of the following reasons:
         a.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
         b.   Noncompliance with this chapter;
         c.   Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights of
way presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or
welfare; or
         d.   Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
      2.   Notice Requirements: The village shall send written notice of its
intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this chapter stating
the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the alternatives
available to the permittee under this subsection.
      3.   Options Of Permittee:
         a.   Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the village, the permittee shall have the following options:
            (1)   Immediately provide the village with evidence that no cause
exists for the revocation or suspension;
            (2)   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the village within five (5) working days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation; or
            (3)   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across, or within the rights of way and restore the rights
of way to the satisfaction of the village, providing written proof of such
removal to the village within ten (10) days after receipt of the written notice
of revocation.
         b.   The village may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend
the time periods provided in this subsection G3.
      4.   Stop Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of
revocation or suspension, the village may issue a stop work order immediately
upon discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within subsection
G1 of this section.
      5.   Failure Or Refusal Of Permittee To Comply: If the permittee fails to
comply with the provisions of subsection G3 of this section, the village or its
designee may, at the option of the village: a) correct the deficiencies; b)
upon not less than twenty (20) days' notice to the permittee, remove the
subject facilities or equipment; or c) after not less than thirty (30) days'
notice to the permittee of failure to cure the noncompliance, deem them
abandoned and property of the village. The permittee shall be liable in all
events to the village for all costs of removal. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008)
8-1-5: INSURANCE; INDEMNITY; SECURITY:
   A.   Insurance Requirements:
      1.   Coverages And Limits:
         a.   Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or similar
agreement, each utility occupying a right of way or constructing any facilities
in the right of way shall secure and maintain the following liability insurance
policies insuring the utility as named insured and naming the village and its
elected and appointed officers, officials, agents, and employees as additional
insureds on the policies listed in subsections A1a(1) and A1a(2) of this
section:
            (1)   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as "X", "C", and "U" coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
               (A)   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or
death to each person;
               (B)   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and
               (C)   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types
of liability;
            (2)   Automobile liability insurance for owned, nonowned and hired
vehicles with a combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00)
for personal injury and property damage for each accident;
            (3)   Workers' compensation insurance in accordance with statutory
limits; and
            (4)   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than
one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per employee and per accident.
         b.   If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the
contractors and subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and
subcontractors shall comply with this subsection.
      2.   Excess Or Umbrella Policies: The coverages required by this
subsection may be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies.
Any excess or umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying
insurance on a following form basis such that when any loss covered by the
primary policy exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or
umbrella policy becomes effective to cover such loss.
      3.   Copies Required: The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this subsection to the village within ten (10) days
following receipt of a written request therefor from the village.
      4.   Maintenance And Renewal Of Required Coverages:
         a.   The insurance policies required by this subsection shall contain
the following endorsement:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor the
intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after receipt by the
Village, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of a
written notice addressed to the Village Administrator of such intent to cancel
or not to renew.
         b.   Within ten (10) days after receipt by the village of said notice,
and in no event later than ten (10) days prior to said cancellation, the
utility shall obtain and furnish to the village evidence of replacement
insurance policies meeting the requirements of this subsection.
      5.   Self-Insurance: A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by subsection A1 of this
section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under subsection A1 of this section, or the requirements of
subsections A2, A3 and A4 of this section. A utility that elects to self-insure
shall provide to the village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial
ability to self-insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements required
under subsection A1 of this section, such as evidence that the utility is a
"private self-insurer" under the workers' compensation act.
      6.   Effect Of Insurance And Self-Insurance On Utility's Liability: The
legal liability of the utility to the village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this subsection shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
      7.   Insurance Companies: All insurance provided pursuant to this
subsection shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by
insurers legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the state of
Illinois. All insurance carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated "A-
" or better and of a class size "X" or higher by A.M. Best Company.
   B.   Indemnification: By occupying or constructing facilities in the right
of way, a utility shall be deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the
village and its elected and appointed officials and officers, employees, agents
and representatives harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims,
demands, judgments, damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney
fees and costs of suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from, or alleged
to arise out of or result from, the negligent, careless or wrongful acts,
omissions, failures to act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates,
officers, employees, agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction
of facilities or occupancy of the rights of way, and in providing or offering
service over the facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized,
allowed or prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license, or similar
agreement; provided, however, that the utility's indemnity obligations
hereunder shall not apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages,
losses or expenses arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct
or breach of this chapter by the village, its officials, officers, employees,
agents or representatives.
   C.   Security:
      1.   Purpose: The permittee shall establish a security fund in a form and
in an amount as set forth in this subsection. The security fund shall be
continuously maintained in accordance with this subsection at the permittee's
sole cost and expense until the completion of the work authorized under the
permit. The security fund shall serve as security for:
         a.   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements
of this chapter;
         b.   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the Village
occasioned by the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules,
regulations, orders, permits and other directives of the Village issued
pursuant to this chapter; and
         c.   The payment by the permittee of all liens and all damages,
claims, costs, or expenses that the Village may pay or incur by reason of any
action or nonperformance by the permittee in violation of this chapter
including, without limitation, any damage to public property or restoration
work the permittee is required by this chapter to perform that the Village must
perform itself or have completed as a consequence solely of the permittee's
failure to perform or complete, and all other payments due the Village from the
permittee pursuant to this chapter or any other applicable law.
      2.   Form: The permittee shall provide the Security Fund to the Village
in the form, at the Village's election, of cash, a surety bond in a form
acceptable to the Village, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form
acceptable to the Village. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided
pursuant to this subsection C2 shall, at a minimum:
         a.   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
Village and the permittee;
         b.   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection
by the Village of any amounts covered thereby; and
         c.   Provide a location convenient to the Village and within the State
of Illinois at which it can be drawn. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008)
      3.   Amount: The dollar amount of the Security Fund shall be sufficient
to provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right-of-way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the Village Engineer, and may also include reasonable,
directly related costs that the Village estimates are likely to be incurred if
the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where the construction of
facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in phases in multiple
locations in the Village, with each phase consisting of construction of
facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and where
construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the Village Engineer
may, in the exercise of his sole discretion, allow the permittee to post a
single amount of security which shall be applicable to each phase of the
construction under the permit. The amount of the Security Fund for phased
construction shall be equal to the greatest amount that would have been
required under the provisions of this subsection C3 for any single phase. (Ord.
2008-11, 1-28-2008; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
      4.   Withdrawals: The Village, upon fourteen (14) days' advance written
notice to the permittee, clearly stating the reason for, and its intention to
exercise withdrawal rights under this subsection C4, may withdraw an amount
from the Security Fund; provided, that the permittee has not reimbursed the
Village for such amount within the fourteen (14) day notice period. A
withdrawal notice from the Village to the permittee shall be sent via certified
mail, return receipt requested, to the address of the utility stated on the
permittee's application and shall be deemed received upon the earlier of actual
receipt or three (3) business days from the date of mailing thereof.
Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
         a.   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
         b.   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due
and unpaid;
         c.   Fails to reimburse the Village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the Village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or nonperformance by the permittee; or
         d.   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the
Village determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the
Security Fund.
      5.   Replenishment: Within fourteen (14) days after receipt of written
notice from the Village that any amount has been withdrawn from the Security
Fund, the permittee shall restore the Security Fund to the amount specified in
subsection C3 of this section.
      6.   Interest: The permittee may request that any and all interest
accrued on the amount in the Security Fund be returned to the permittee by the
Village, upon written request for said withdrawal to the Village; provided,
that any such withdrawal does not reduce the Security Fund below the minimum
balance required in subsection C3 of this section.
      7.   Closing And Return Of Security Fund: Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the Security Fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the Village for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the Security Fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the Village to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the Village as a result of said revocation;
provided, that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be
refunded to the permittee.
      8.   Rights Not Limited: The rights reserved to the Village with respect
to the Security Fund are in addition to all other rights of the Village,
whether reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said Security Fund shall affect
any other right the Village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
Village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-
28-2008)
8-1-6: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP, IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS:
   A.   Notification Of Change: A utility shall notify the Village no less than
thirty (30) days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facilities in the
right-of-way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility
or the facilities shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right-of-way.
   B.   Amended Permit: A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the current
permit if the new owner uses the facilities or allows them to remain on the
Village right-of-way.
   C.   Insurance And Bonding: All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer. (Ord. 2008-11,
1-28-2008)
8-1-7: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Standards And Principles: All construction in the right-of- way shall
be consistent with applicable Village ordinances, codes, laws, rules and
regulations, practices and policies and commonly recognized and accepted
traffic control and construction principles, sound engineering judgment as
determined by the Village Engineer in his sole discretion, and, where
applicable, the principles and standards set forth in the following IDOT
publications, as amended from time to time: (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008; amd. 2012
Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
      1.   "Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction";
      2.   "Supplemental Specifications and Recurring Special Provisions";
      3.   "Highway Design Manual";
      4.   "Highway Standards Manual";
      5.   "Standard Specifications for Traffic Control Items";
      6.   "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" (92 Ill. Adm.
Code section 545);
      7.   "Flagger's Handbook"; and
      8.   "Work Site Protection Manual for Daylight Maintenance Operations".
(Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008)
   B.   Interpretation Of Standards And Principles: If a discrepancy exists
between or among differing principles and standards required by this chapter,
the Village Engineer shall determine, in the exercise of sound engineering
judgment, which principles apply, and such decision shall be final. If
requested, the Village Engineer shall state which standard or principle will
apply to the construction, maintenance, or operation of a facility in the
future. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
8-1-8: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: The Village's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control
Devices" and this Code.
   B.   Warning Signs, Protective Devices, And Flaggers: The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable Federal, State, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility workers when
performing any work on the rights-of-way.
   C.   Interference With Traffic: All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   D.   Notice When Access Is Blocked: At least forty eight (48) hours prior to
beginning work that will partially or completely block access to any residence,
business or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or
institution of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work;
provided, however, that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to
section
8-1-14 of this chapter, the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable
under the circumstances.
   E.   Compliance Required: The utility shall take immediate action to correct
any deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the Village. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008)
8-1-9: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   A.   General Requirements: In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of facilities, all facilities, regardless of type, shall be
subject to the general location requirements of this subsection. (Ord. 2008-11,
1-28-2008)
      1.   Interference With Village Facilities Prohibited: No facilities shall
be placed in any location if the Village Engineer determines that the proposed
location will require the relocation or displacement of any of the Village
facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation or maintenance of any
of the Village facilities. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-
42, 11-13-2017)
      2.   Minimum Interference And Impact: The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right-of-way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with, the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right-of-
way.
      3.   Interference With Travel Prohibited: No facilities shall be placed
in any location that interferes with the usual, intended and customary
pedestrian and vehicular travel on such right-of-way.
      4.   No Limitations On Visibility: No facilities shall be placed in any
location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right-of-way.
      5.   Size Of Utility Facilities: The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals, and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
   B.   Parallel Facilities Located Within Highways:
      1.   Overhead Parallel Facilities: Overhead parallel facilities may be
located only on existing poles that are within the right-of-way of a highway.
If no poles exist within the portion of the right-of-way proposed to be
utilized for placement of overhead parallel facilities, then such overhead
parallel facilities shall be placed underground in accordance with this chapter
unless otherwise permitted pursuant to this chapter.
      2.   Underground Parallel Facilities: Underground parallel facilities may
be located within the right-of-way of a highway only if:
         a.   The facilities are located as near the right-of-way boundary as
practicable and not more than eight feet (8') (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right-of-way boundary;
         b.   Facilities may be located under the paved portion of a highway
only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in an existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         c.   In the case of an underground power or communications line, all
facilities shall be located as near the right-of-way boundary as practicable
and not more than five feet (5') (1.5 m) from the right-of-way boundary, and
any aboveground appurtenance shall be located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of
the right-of-way boundary or as near as practicable.
   C.   Facilities Crossing Highways:
      1.   No Future Disruption: The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch boundary or curb boundary of Village
highways may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as
encasement or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the
roadbed resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      2.   Cattle Passes, Culverts, Or Drainage Facilities: Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts, or drainage facilities.
      3.   Ninety Degree Crossing Required: Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a ninety degree (90°) angle to the centerline as practicable.
      4.   Overhead Power Or Communication Facility: An overhead power or
communication facility may not cross a roadway or highway.
      5.   Underground Power Or Communication Facility: An underground power or
communication facility may cross a roadway or highway only if:
         a.   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance free service life; and
         b.   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      6.   Markers: The Village may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right-of-way boundary where any underground facilities other than a power
or communication facility crosses a roadway or highway. Each marker shall
identify the type of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number.
Markers may also be eliminated as provided in current Federal regulations (49
CFR section 192.707 (1989)).
   D.   Location Within Particular Rights-Of-Way: The Village may require that
facilities be located within particular rights- of-way that are not highways,
rather than within particular highways. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008)
   E.   Freestanding Facilities:
      1.   The Village may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facilities located within a right-of-way as determined by the Village Engineer.
      2.   The Village may require any freestanding facilities located within a
right-of-way to be screened from view as determined by the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
   F.   Aboveground Facilities: Aboveground facilities may be installed only
if: (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008; amd. 2012 Code)
      1.   New underground installation is not technically feasible, as
determined by the Village Engineer in his sole discretion; and
      2.   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety, as determined by the Village Engineer in his sole discretion. Suitable
designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting armless, single pole
construction with vertical configuration of conductors and cable. Existing
utility poles shall be used wherever practicable. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008;
amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
   G.   Facility Attachments To Bridges Or Roadway Structures:
      1.   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facilities are not practicable. Other means shall include,
but are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable
supports and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the
bridge or roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are
volatile, flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under
significant pressure or potential, present high degrees of risk, and such
installations are not permitted.
      2.   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate the
installation of facilities on a bridge or roadway structure, supporting data
demonstrating the impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or
disapproval of an application for attachment of facilities to a bridge or
roadway structure will be based upon the following considerations:
         a.   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facilities;
         b.   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         c.   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         d.   The proposed method of attachment;
         e.   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facilities;
         f.   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         g.   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         h.   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   H.   Appearance Standards:
      1.   The Village may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality and streetscape
aesthetics. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008)
      2.   Facilities may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right-of-way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed as
determined by the Village Engineer in his sole reasonable discretion. (Ord.
2008-11, 1-28-2008; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
8-1-10: CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS:
   A.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Construction
Methods:
      1.   Boring Or Jacking:
         a.   Pits And Shoring: Boring or jacking under rights-of-way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the Village
Engineer from the edge of the pavement of the adjacent roadway or right-of-way.
Pits for boring or jacking shall be excavated no more than forty eight (48)
hours in advance of boring or jacking operations and backfilled within forty
eight (48) hours after boring or jacking operations are completed. While pits
are open, they shall be clearly marked and protected by barricades. Shoring
shall be designed, erected, supported, braced, and maintained so that it will
safely support all vertical and lateral loads that may be imposed upon it
during the boring or jacking operation. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008; amd. 2012
Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
         b.   Wet Boring Or Jetting: Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under a roadway or highway.
         c.   Borings With Diameters Greater Than Six Inches: Borings over six
inches (6") (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and
following pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside
diameter of the following pipe by more than one inch (1") (25 mm).
         d.   Borings With Diameters Six Inches Or Less: Borings of six inches
(6") or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with
auger, or auger and following pipe method. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008)
         e.   Tree Preservation: Any facilities located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the Village to be preserved or protected shall be
accomplished by boring under or around the root system pursuant to the
"Arboricultural Specifications and Standards of Practice Manual", as
interpreted by the Village Engineer or his designee.
      2.   Trenching: If approved by the Village Engineer, trenching for
facility installation, repair, or maintenance on rights- of-way shall be done
in accord with the applicable portions of section 603 of IDOT's "Standard
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction".
         a.   Length: The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipeline testing. Only
one-half (1/2) of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless
special written permission is obtained from the Village Engineer. (Ord. 2008-
11, 1-28-2008; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
         b.   Open Trench And Excavated Material: Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by chapter 6 of the "Illinois
Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices". Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right-of-way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off road location. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008)
         c.   Drip Line Of Trees: The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the Village to be preserved pursuant to the
"Arboricultural Specifications and Standards of Practice Manual", as
interpreted by the Village Engineer or his designee. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008;
amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
      3.   Backfilling:
         a.   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's "Standard Specifications for
Road and Bridge Construction". When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used. (Ord. 2008-
11, 1-28-2008)
         b.   For a period of three (3) years from the date construction of
facilities is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area whether paved or vegetated that has settled due to
construction of the facilities. If so ordered by the Village Engineer, the
utility, at its expense, shall remove any pavement and backfill material to the
top of the installed facilities, place and properly compact new backfill
material, and restore new pavement, sidewalks, recreational paths, curbs, and
driveways to the proper grades, as determined by the Village Engineer.
      4.   Pavement Cuts: Pavement cuts for installation or repair of
facilities shall be permitted on a highway only if approved in writing by the
Village Engineer, and that portion of the highway is closed to traffic. If a
variance to the limitation set forth in this subsection A4 is permitted under
section
8-1-15 of this chapter, the following requirements shall apply:
         a.   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted
as soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as
designated by the Village Engineer. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008; amd. 2012 Code;
Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
         b.   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the Village.
         c.   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         d.   For all rights-of-way that have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven (7) years prior to cutting, or
resurfaced in the last three (3) years prior to cutting, permits shall not be
issued unless such work is determined to be an emergency repair or other work
considered necessary and unforeseen before the time of the reconstruction or
unless a pavement cut is necessary for a JULIE locate. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-
2008)
      5.   Encasement:
         a.   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved in
writing by the Village Engineer. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008; amd. 2012 Code; Ord.
2017-42, 11-13-2017)
         b.   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right-of-way boundary. No aboveground vent pipes shall
be located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008; amd. 2012 Code)
         c.   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or Village approved
jointed pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is
installed prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or
mechanical joints are of a type approved by the Village Engineer in writing.
Bell and spigot type pipe shall be encased regardless of the installation
method. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
         d.   In the case of gas pipelines of sixty (60) psig or less,
encasement may be eliminated.
         e.   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines with
installations of more than sixty (60) psig, encasement may be eliminated only
if: 1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair;
and 2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         f.   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right-of-way.
      6.   Minimum Cover Of Underground Facilities: Cover shall be provided and
maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for minimum
cover for the type of facility:
 
Type Of Facility                         Minimum Cover
Electric lines                           30 inches (0.8 m)
Communications, cable or video service   18 to 24 inches (0.46 m to 0.6 m, as
lines                                    determined by the Village)
Gas or petroleum products                30 inches (0.8 m)
Water lines                              Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                         protection
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or drainage Sufficient cover to provide freeze
lines                                    protection
 
   B.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Facilities:
      1.   Electric Power Or Communication Lines:
         a.   Code Compliance: Electric power or communications facilities
within Village rights-of-way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Illinois Administrative Code part 305
(formerly general order 160 of the Illinois Commerce Commission) entitled
"Rules for Construction of Electric Power and Communication Lines" and the
National Electrical Safety Code.
         b.   Overhead Facilities: Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction, and where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guywires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         c.   Underground Facilities:
            (1)   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing; provided,
that special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            (2)   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if: a) the crossing is installed by the use of "moles", "whip augers", or
other approved methods which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation; or b) the installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            (3)   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the National
Electrical Safety Code. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008)
         d.   Burial Of Drops: All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snow drops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the Village Engineer. Weather permitting, each
utility shall bury all temporary drops, excluding snow drops, within ten (10)
business days after placement. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008; amd. 2012 Code; Ord.
2017-42, 11-13-2017)
      2.   Underground Facilities Other Than Electric Power Or Communication
Lines: Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         a.   The use of "moles", "whip augers", or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         b.   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway or roadway;
         c.   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to highway or roadway construction; or
         d.   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is not
possible by other means.
      3.   Gas Transmission, Distribution And Service: Gas pipelines within
rights-of-way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a Village
approved manner and in conformance with the Federal Code of the Office of
Pipeline Safety Operations, Department of Transportation, part 192,
"Transportation of Natural and Other Gas By Pipeline: Minimum Federal Safety
Standards" (49 CFR section 192), IDOT's "Standard Specifications for Road and
Bridge Construction", and all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
      4.   Petroleum Products Pipelines: Petroleum products pipelines within
rights-of-way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI "Standard Code
for Pressure Piping" (liquid petroleum transportation piping systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      5.   Water Lines, Sanitary Sewer Lines, Storm Sewer Lines Or Drainage
Lines: Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and drainage lines
within rights-of-way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of the current
"Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois".
(Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008)
      6.   Ground Mounted Appurtenances: Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right-of-way, shall
be provided with a vegetation free area extending one foot (1') (305 mm) in
width beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation free area may
be provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the Village Engineer. With the approval of the
Village Engineer, shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be used in place
of vegetation free area. The housing for ground mounted appurtenances shall be
painted a neutral color approved by the Village Engineer to blend with the
surroundings. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-
2017)
   C.   Materials:
      1.   General Standards: The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights-of-way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's "Standards
Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction", the requirements of the
Illinois Commerce Commission, or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008)
      2.   Storage On Right-Of-Way: No material shall be stored on the right-
of-way without the prior written approval of the Village Engineer. When such
storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles, cross arms, or other
materials shall be distributed along the right-of-way prior to and during
installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an obstacle to
right-of-way maintenance or damage to the right-of-way and other property. If
material is to be stored on the right-of-way, prior written approval must be
obtained from the Village Engineer.
      3.   Hazardous Materials: The plans submitted by the utility to the
Village Engineer shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in
the construction of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   D.   Operational Restrictions:
      1.   Construction operations on rights-of-way may, at the discretion of
the Village Engineer, be required to be discontinued when such operations would
create hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such
operations may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when
conditions are such that construction would result in extensive damage to the
right-of-way or other property.
      2.   These restrictions may be waived by the Village Engineer when
emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
      3.   Unless otherwise permitted by the Village, the permitted hours of
construction of any facilities are those set forth in section
5-5-2 of this Code, being seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to six o'clock (6:00) P.M.,
or as determined by the Village Engineer. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008; amd. 2012
Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
   E.   Existing Facilities: Any utility proposing to construct facilities in
the Village shall contact JULIE and ascertain the presence and location of
existing aboveground and underground facilities within the rights-of-way to be
occupied by its proposed facilities. The Village will make its permit records
available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible facilities. When
notified of an excavation or when requested by the Village or by JULIE, a
utility shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities within
forty eight (48) hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance with the
Illinois Underground Facilities Damage Prevention Act 1 . (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-
2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.
8-1-11: VEGETATION CONTROL 1 :
   A.   Electric Utilities; Compliance With State Laws And Regulations: An
electric utility shall conduct all tree trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right-of-way in accordance with applicable Illinois laws and
regulations and, additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the Village as permitted by law. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008)
   B.   Other Utilities; Tree Trimming:
      1.   Permit Requirements:
         a.   Tree trimming that is done by any other utility with facilities
in the right-of-way and that is not performed pursuant to applicable Illinois
laws and regulations specifically governing same shall not be considered a
normal maintenance operation, but shall require the application for, and the
issuance of, a permit, in addition to any other permit required pursuant to
this chapter and chapter 2 of this title, the Village tree replacement
provisions. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008; amd. 2012 Code)
         b.   Applications for tree trimming permits shall include assurance
that the work will be accomplished by competent workers, with supervision, who
are experienced in accepted tree pruning practices. Tree trimming permits shall
designate an expiration date in the interest of assuring that the work will be
expeditiously accomplished. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008)
      2.   Damage To Trees: Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The Village will
require compensation for or replacement of trees extensively damaged and for
trees removed without written Village authorization in accordance with the
standards and requirements set forth by the Village tree replacement ordinance
2 . The Village may require the removal and replacement of trees if trimming or
radical pruning would leave them in an unacceptable condition, as determined by
the Village Engineer. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42,
11-13-2017)
   C.   Specimen Trees Or Trees Of Special Significance: The Village may
require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of
special significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side
arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
   D.   Chemical Use:
      1.   Except as provided in the following paragraph, no utility shall
spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or vegetation
in the Village for any purpose, including the control of growth, insects or
disease. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008)
      2.   Spraying of any type of brush killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights-of-way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the Village Engineer that such spraying is the only practicable method of
vegetation control. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-
13-2017)
 
Notes
1 2. See also section 8-2-3-3 of this title.
2 1. See title 11, chapter 16 of this Code.
8-1-12: REMOVAL, RELOCATION OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES:
   A.   Within ninety (90) days following written notice from the Village, a
utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or permanently
disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any facilities
within the rights-of-way whenever the Corporate Authorities have determined
that such removal, relocation, change or alteration is reasonably necessary for
the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation of any Village
improvement in or upon, or the operations of the Village in or upon, the
rights-of-way.
   B.   Within thirty (30) days following written notice from the Village, any
utility that owns, controls, or maintains any unauthorized facilities or
related appurtenances within the rights-of-way shall, at its own expense,
remove all or any part of such facilities or appurtenances from the rights-of-
way. All unauthorized facilities are subject to removal in the following
circumstances:
      1.   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      2.   If the facilities were constructed or installed without the prior
grant of a license or franchise, if required;
      3.   If the facilities were constructed or installed without prior
issuance of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
      4.   If the facilities were constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
   C.   The Village retains the right and privilege to cut or move any
facilities located within the rights-of-way of the Village, as the Village may
determine to be necessary, appropriate or useful, in response to any public
health or safety emergency. If circumstances permit, the Village shall attempt
to notify the utility, if known, prior to cutting or removing its facilities
and shall notify the utility, if known, after cutting or removing its
facilities. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008)
   D.   Upon abandonment of facilities within the rights-of-way of the Village,
the utility shall notify the Village within ninety (90) days. Following receipt
of such notice, the Village may direct the utility to remove all or any portion
of the facilities if the Village Engineer determines that such removal will be
in the best interest of the public health, safety and welfare. In the event
that the Village does not direct the utility that abandoned the facilities to
remove them, by giving notice of abandonment to the Village, the abandoning
utility shall be deemed to consent to the alteration or removal of all or any
portion of the facilities by another utility or person. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-
2008; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
8-1-13: CLEANUP AND RESTORATION:
The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and terrain
and other property within ten (10) days after any portion of the right-of-way
is disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to construction or maintenance by the
utility, all to the satisfaction of the Village. This includes restoration of
entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using
materials and methods approved by the Village Engineer. Such cleanup and repair
may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading, reseeding, resodding,
repaving or any other requirement to restore the right-of-way to a condition
substantially equivalent to that which existed prior to the commencement of the
project. The time period provided in this section may be extended by the
Village Engineer for good cause shown. Failure of the utility to cause
restoration of the right-of-way within ten (10) days shall be cause for the
Village to restore the disturbed area at the expense of the utility or
permittee pursuant to subsection 8-1-5C of this chapter. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-
2008; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
8-1-14: MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS:
   A.   General Maintenance Requirements: Facilities on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across, or within rights-of-way are to be maintained by or for the
utility in a manner satisfactory to the Village and at the utility's expense.
   B.   Emergency Maintenance Procedures: Emergencies may justify noncompliance
with normal procedures for securing a permit.
      1.   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right-of-way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right-of-way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008)
      2.   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
Village Engineer or his or her duly authorized agent of the emergency,
informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection of the
traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary repairs. If
the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free movement of
traffic, the Village police shall be notified immediately. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-
2008; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
      3.   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to complete
repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to the
traveling public. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008; amd. 2012 Code)
   C.   Emergency Repairs: The utility must file with the Village Engineer, in
writing, a description of the repairs undertaken in the right-of-way within
forty eight (48) hours after an emergency repair. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008;
amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
8-1-15: VARIANCES:
   A.   Request For Variance: A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the Village Engineer
as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify each provision
of this chapter from which a variance is requested and the reasons why a
variance should be granted.
   B.   Authority To Grant Variances: The Village Engineer shall decide, in his
sole discretion, whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this
chapter identified in the variance request on an individual basis.
   C.   Conditions:
      1.   The Village Engineer may authorize a variance only if the utility
requesting the variance has demonstrated that: (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008; amd.
2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
         a.   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such
as terrain features or an irregular right-of-way boundary) create a special
hardship that would make compliance with the provision unreasonable, given the
public purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
         b.   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities
that would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008)
      2.   As a condition for authorizing a variance, the Village Engineer may
require the utility requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and
conditions that may or may not be expressly contained within this chapter but
which carry out the purposes and intent of this chapter.
   D.   Appeals: Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement, decision or
determination, including denial of a variance, made by the Village Engineer
under the provisions of this chapter shall have the right to appeal to the
Village Administrator. The application for appeal shall be submitted in writing
to the Village Clerk within thirty (30) days after the date of such order,
requirement, decision or determination of the Village Engineer. The Village
Administrator shall commence his or her consideration of the appeal within not
more than thirty (30) days after the date that the written application for
appeal is submitted to the Village Clerk, and the Village Administrator shall
prepare his or her written determination on the appeal not more than ten (10)
business days after completing his or her consideration of the appeal. Any
utility aggrieved by the written determination of the Village Administrator
shall have the right to appeal to the Village Board of Trustees. The
application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the Village Clerk
within thirty (30) days after the date of written determination of the Village
Administrator. The Village Board of Trustees shall commence its consideration
of the appeal at the Village Board's next regularly scheduled meeting occurring
at least seven (7) days after the filing of the appeal. The Village Board of
Trustees shall timely decide the appeal upon presentation of all relevant
facts. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
8-1-16: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply
with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code. There may be times when the Village will incur delay or
other costs, including third party claims, because the utility will not or
cannot perform its duties under its permit and this chapter. Unless the utility
shows that another allocation of the cost of undertaking the requested action
is appropriate, the utility shall bear the Village costs of damages and its
costs of installing, maintaining, modifying, relocating, or removing the
facility that is the subject of the permit. No other administrative agency or
commission may review or overrule a permit related cost apportionment of the
Village. Sanctions may be imposed upon a utility that does not pay the costs
apportioned thereto. (Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional
or further remedies that the Village may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-11, 1-28-2008)
CHAPTER 2
TREES 1
SECTION:
8-2-1: Purpose And Intent
8-2-2: Definitions
8-2-3: Planting, Maintenance And Removal And/Or Replacement Of Trees On Public
Areas
8-2-3-1: Director Of Public Works Or His Designee As Enforcement Official
8-2-3-2: Permit Requirements
8-2-3-3: Public Utility Companies
8-2-3-4: Removal, Replanting And Replacement
8-2-3-5: Obstructions; Pruning Required
8-2-3-6: Protection Of Trees
8-2-3-7: Improper Planting
8-2-3-8: Abuse Or Damage To Prohibited
8-2-3-9: Placing Materials On Public Property
8-2-4: Penalties
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 11, chapter 16 of this Code for tree preservation on
  private property.
8-2-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The regulations of this chapter have been adopted to:
   A.   Establish regulations and permit requirements for the planting,
maintenance, removal and replacement of trees in Village owned public places
and parkways. (Ord. 95-61, 10-23-1995)
   B.   Identify the Public Works Department as the appropriate Village agency
to administer the planting, maintenance, removal and replacement of trees in
Village owned public places and parkways. (Ord. 95-61, 10-23-1995; amd. Ord.
2017-42, 11-13-2017)
8-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given in this section. Where applicable,
words used in the present tense include the future, words in the plural include
singular, and words in the singular include the plural. The word "shall" is
mandatory. The word "may" is permissive.
ARBORICULTURAL SPECIFICATIONS AND STANDARDS OF PRACTICE MANUAL: The document
prepared and maintained by the Director of Public Works or his designee
containing regulations and standards for the planting, maintenance and removal
of trees upon Village owned property.
PARKWAY: That part of a street or highway, not covered by sidewalk or other
paving, lying between a property line and the curb of a street or highway.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
PUBLIC PLACES: All grounds owned by the Village of Bloomingdale, DuPage County,
Illinois, including, but not limited to, parkways and public property.
PUBLIC TREES: All shade and ornamental trees now or hereafter growing on any
street, parkway or any other public places as defined by this chapter.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width of a public way or right- of-way when any
part thereof is open to the use of the public, as a matter of right, for the
purposes of vehicular and pedestrian traffic. (Ord. 95-61, 10-23-1995; amd.
2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
8-2-3: PLANTING, MAINTENANCE AND REMOVAL AND/OR REPLACEMENT OF TREES ON PUBLIC
AREAS:
This section establishes the Public Works Department as the agency responsible
for prescribing regulations relating to the planting, maintenance, and removal
of trees in parkways and public places as set forth in this chapter. This
section also provides regulations for the issuing of permits for the planting,
maintenance and removal of trees in public places and parkways and the pruning
of trees on private property which endanger public safety by overhanging or
obstructing public property. (Ord. 95-61, 10-23-1995; amd. Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-
2017)
8-2-3-1: DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS OR HIS DESIGNEE AS ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:
   A.   Duties:
      1.   The Director of Public Works or his designee shall have the
authority to and shall cause provisions of this chapter to be enforced, as
follows: (Ord. 95-61, 10-23-1995; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
         a.   Promulgate the rules and regulations of the "Arboricultural
Specifications and Standards of Practice Manual" governing the planting,
maintenance, removal, fertilization, pruning, and bracing of trees in parkways
and other public places in the Village;
         b.   Direct, regulate, and control the planting, maintenance, and
removal of all trees growing now or hereafter in any parkway or public place in
the Village; and
         c.   Direct efforts to educate and encourage the public to plant and
maintain trees in parkways. (Ord. 95-61, 10-23-1995; amd. 2012 Code)
      2.   These duties may be the temporary responsibility of a qualified
alternate designated by the Director of Public Works or his designee.
   B.   Authority:
      1.   The Director of Public Works or his designee shall have the
authority and jurisdiction of regulating the planting, maintenance, and removal
of trees in parkways and other publicly owned property to ensure safety or
preserve the aesthetics of such public places.
      2.   The Director of Public Works or his designee shall be responsible
for the preparation, maintenance, or modifications of the "Arboricultural
Specifications and Standards of Practice Manual".
      3.   The Director of Public Works or his designee shall have the
authority and responsibility to supervise or inspect all work done under a
permit issued in accordance with the terms of this chapter.
      4.   The Director of Public Works or his designee shall have the
authority to affix reasonable conditions to the granting of a permit in
accordance with the terms of this section
8-2-3.
      5.   a. The Director of Public Works or his designee shall have the
authority to formulate a Master Street Tree Plan with the advice of, a hearing
by, and approval of the Village President and Board of Trustees. The Master
Street Tree Plan shall specify the species of tree to be planted within
parkways or any other public places in the Village. From and after the
effective date of the Master Street Tree Plan, or any amendment thereto, all
planting shall conform thereto.
         b.   The Director of Public Works or his designee shall consider all
existing and future utility and environmental factors when recommending a
specific species for each of the streets and other public places of the
Village.
         c.   The Director of Public Works or his designee, with approval of
the Village President and Board of Trustees, shall have the authority to amend
or add to the Master Street Tree Plan at any time that circumstances make it
advisable.
   C.   Interference Prohibited: No person shall hinder, prevent, delay, or
interfere with the Director of Public Works or his designee or any of his/her
assistants while engaged in carrying out the execution or enforcement of this
chapter; provided, however, that nothing herein shall be construed as an
attempt to prohibit the pursuit of any remedy, legal or equitable, in any court
of competent jurisdiction for the protection of property rights by the owner of
any property within the Village. (Ord. 95-61, 10-23-1995; amd. 2012 Code; Ord.
2017-42, 11-13-2017)
8-2-3-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Planting, Maintenance Or Removal Of Trees:
      1.   Permits Required: A tree planting, maintenance or removal permit
shall be required to plant, remove, prune or otherwise maintain trees in public
places or public parkways. (Ord. 95-61, 10-23-1995; amd. 2012 Code)
      2.   Applications For Permits:
         a.   General Requirements:
            (1)   Except for the Director of Public Works or his designee, or
agents or contractors hired by the Village, no person shall plant, spray,
fertilize, preserve, prune, remove, cut aboveground, or otherwise disturb any
tree on any existing or proposed street, parkway, or Municipal owned property
without first filing an application and procuring a permit from the Director of
Public Works or his designee or otherwise specified Village authority. The
person receiving the permit agrees to abide by the provisions of this section
8-2-3 and the "Arboricultural Specifications and Standards of Practice Manual".
(Ord. 95-61, 10-23-1995; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
            (2)   Applications for permits must be made at the Village offices
not less than forty eight (48) hours (2 working days) in advance of the time
the work is to be done. (Ord. 95-61, 10-23-1995; amd. 2012 Code)
         b.   Additional Requirements For Planting Applications: The
application required herein shall state the number of trees to be set out; the
location, grade, species, cultivar or variety of each tree; the method of
planting; and such other information as the Director of Public Works or his
designee shall find reasonably necessary to make a fair determination of
whether a permit should be issued. Unless written approval is obtained from the
Director of Public Works or his designee, species and cultivars selected for
planting shall be limited to those appearing on the approved species list
maintained by the Director of Public Works or his designee.
         c.   Additional Requirements For Maintenance Applications: The
application required herein shall state the number and kinds of trees to be
sprayed, fertilized, pruned or otherwise preserved; the kind of treatment to be
administered; the composition of the spray material to be applied; and such
other information as the Director of Public Works or his designee shall find
reasonably necessary to make a fair determination of whether a permit should be
issued.
         d.   Additional Requirements For Removal Applications: No person or
property owner shall remove a tree from the parkway for the purpose of
construction, or for any other reason, without first filing an application and
procuring a permit from the Director of Public Works or his designee, and
without replacing the removed tree or trees in accordance with the adopted
arboricultural specifications. Such replacement shall meet the standards of
size, species, and placement as provided in a permit issued by the Director of
Public Works or his designee. The person or property owner shall bear the cost
of removal and replacement of all trees removed.
      3.   Issuance Of Permit; Expiration And Invalidity: The Director of
Public Works or his designee shall issue the permit provided herein if, in his/
her judgment, the proposed work is desirable and the proposed method and
workmanship thereof are of a satisfactory nature. Any permit granted shall
contain a definite date of expiration, and the work shall be completed in the
time allowed on the permit and in the manner as therein described. Any permit
shall be void if its terms are violated.
      4.   Notice For Inspection: Notice of completion shall be given within
five (5) days to the Director of Public Works or his designee for his/her
inspection.
   B.   Excavations/Construction: No person shall excavate any ditches, tunnels
or trenches or lay any drive within a radius of ten feet (10') from any public
tree without first obtaining a written permit from the Director of Public Works
or his designee.
   C.   Fees And Bonds: Required permits will be issued to the applicants after
payment of the permit fee pursuant to the permit fee schedule 1 . The Director
of Public Works or his designee reserves the right to require a performance
bond in the form of cash or a letter of credit to assure compliance with permit
conditions. (Ord. 95-61, 10-23-1995; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-1-2-3 of this Code.
8-2-3-3: PUBLIC UTILITY COMPANIES 1 :
Public utility companies shall notify the Director of Public Works or his
designee prior to the initiation of pruning cycles which will involve trees in
parkways or on Village owned property for the purpose of maintaining safe line
clearance. The notice shall state the estimated time frame of the pruning cycle
as well as the planned locations in the Village where the work will be
performed. All pruning work shall be carried out in accordance with accepted
arboricultural standards. Public utility companies shall also notify the
Director of Public Works or his designee prior to the installation or
maintenance of underground utilities if such activity will occur within the
drip line of trees located in parkways or on Village owned property. In the
case of severe storms, natural disasters or other emergency situations, a
public utility company may perform any required pruning or underground utility
maintenance necessitated by such situation and, thereafter, notify the Director
of Public Works or his designee of the work performed. (Ord. 95-61, 10-23-1995;
amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
 
Notes
1 2. See also section 8-1-11 of this title.
8-2-3-4: REMOVAL, REPLANTING AND REPLACEMENT:
Wherever it is necessary to remove a tree or trees from a parkway in connection
with the paving of a sidewalk or the paving or widening of the portion of a
street or highway used for vehicular traffic, the Village shall replant (or
cause to replant) such trees or replace (or cause to replace) them. In
situations where conditions prevent planting on parkways, this requirement will
be deemed to be satisfied if an equivalent number of trees of the same size and
species as provided in the arboricultural specifications are planted in an
attractive manner on the adjoining property. (Ord. 95-61, 10-23-1995)
8-2-3-5: OBSTRUCTIONS; PRUNING REQUIRED:
   A.   Pruning Required; Height Above Public Ways: It shall be the duty of any
person or persons owning or occupying real property bordering on any street
upon which property there may be trees, to prune such trees in such manner that
they will not obstruct or shade the streetlights, obstruct the passage of
pedestrians on sidewalks, obstruct vision of traffic signs, or obstruct views
of any street or alley intersection. The minimum clearance of any overhanging
portion thereof shall be ten feet (10') over sidewalks and twelve feet (12')
over all streets except truck thoroughfares, which shall have a clearance of
sixteen feet (16'). (Ord. 95-61, 10-23-1995)
   B.   Notice To Prune: Should any person or persons owning real property
bordering on any street fail to prune trees as provided in subsection A of this
section, the Director of Public Works or his designee, through the offices of
the Village Attorney, shall order such person or persons, within thirty (30)
days after receipt of written notice, to so prune such trees which are
determined to be a public nuisance compromising the public health, safety and
welfare. The order required herein shall be served by mailing a copy of the
order to the last known address of the property owner, by certified mail. (Ord.
95-61, 10-23-1995; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
   C.   Failure To Comply: When a person to whom an order is directed shall
fail to comply within the specified time, it shall be lawful for the Village to
prune such trees, and the exact cost thereof shall be assessed to the property
owner, as provided by law. (Ord. 95-61, 10-23-1995)
8-2-3-6: PROTECTION OF TREES:
All trees on any street or other publicly owned property near any excavation or
construction of any building, structure, or street work shall be guarded with a
good substantial fence, frame, or box not less than four feet (4') high and
eight feet (8') square, or at a distance in feet from the tree equal to the
diameter at breast height (41/2 feet above grade) of the trunk in inches,
whichever is greater, and all building material, dirt or other debris shall be
kept outside the barrier. (Ord. 95-61, 10-23-1995)
8-2-3-7: IMPROPER PLANTING:
Whenever any tree shall be planted or set out in conflict with the provisions
of this section
8-2-3, it shall be lawful for the Director of Public Works or his designee to
remove or cause removal of the said tree, and the exact cost thereof shall be
assessed to the responsible person as provided by law. (Ord. 95-61, 10-23-1995;
amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
8-2-3-8: ABUSE OR DAMAGE TO PROHIBITED:
Unless specifically authorized by the Director of Public Works or his designee,
no person shall intentionally damage, cut, carve, transplant, or remove any
tree; attach any rope, wire, nails, advertising posters or other contrivance to
any tree; allow any gaseous, liquid, or solid substance, which is harmful to
such trees, to come into contact with them; or set fire or permit any fire to
burn when such fire or the heat thereof will injure any portion of any tree; or
cause reasonably avoidable damage to the root system by excavation, trenching
or tunneling. (Ord. 95-61, 10-23-1995; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-
2017)
8-2-3-9: PLACING MATERIALS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
No person shall deposit, place, store, or maintain upon any public place of the
Village any stone, brick, sand, concrete, or other materials which may impede
the free passage of water, air, or nutrients to the roots of any tree growing
therein, except by written permit of the Director of Public Works or his
designee. (Ord. 95-61, 10-23-1995; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
8-2-4: PENALTIES:
   A.   Fines And Restitution:
      1.   Fines: Any person, firm, or private or public corporation failing to
comply with any notice issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, upon
conviction, shall be subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00)
nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each separate offense,
and each day during which any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall
occur constitutes a separate offense, and/or all activity shall terminate, if
applicable, until such time as all provisions of this chapter have been met to
the satisfaction of the Director of Public Works or his designee. (2012 Code;
amd. Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
      2.   Restitution:
         a.   If, as a result of any violation of any provision of this chapter
that causes the injury, mutilation, damage or death of a tree, shrub or other
plant located on Village owned property or right-of-way, the cost of
restitution to remediate, repair or replace such tree, shrub or other plant
shall also be borne by the party in violation. (2012 Code)
         b.   Said means to remediate, repair or replace such injured,
mutilated, damaged or dead tree, shrub or other plant and the value thereof
shall be determined by the Director of Public Works or his designee as follows:
(2012 Code; amd. Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
            (1)   The value to repair the injury, mutilation, or damage of such
trees, shrubs or other plants shall be equal to the total actual costs of
remediation or repair, plus the cost of restoration and Village overhead and
administrative charges, as applicable.
            (2)   The value to replace irreparably damaged or removed trees six
inches (6") in diameter or less shall be equal to the greater of either the
cost to replace said six inch (6") diameter or less tree, or the cost to
replace said six inch (6") diameter tree with a minimum of two (2) 3-inch
caliper trees, plus the cost of removal, restoration and Village overhead and
administrative charges, as applicable.
            (3)   The value to replace irreparably damaged or removed trees
greater than six inches (6") in diameter shall be determined per tree based on
the value as determined by the "Trunk Formula Method" as published by the
International Society of Arboriculture in the "Guide for Plant Appraisal"
(current edition), as follows, plus the cost of removal, restoration and
Village overhead and administrative charges, as applicable: (2012 Code)
V = B x S x C x L, where:
V = Removed tree value
B = Basis tree value as determined by the Director of Public Works or his
    designee
S = Tree species rating as determined by the Director of Public Works or his
    designee
C = Tree condition rating as determined by the Director of Public Works or his
    designee
   1.00 = excellent
   0.80 = good
   0.50 = fair
   0.30 = poor
    Tree location rating as determined by the Director of Public Works or his
L = designee after considering the site, contribution and placement of the
    subject tree
 
(2012 Code; amd. Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
   B.   Suspension Of Permits: The Director of Public Works or his designee may
suspend any and all permits issued for a parcel of land if the Village
determines that the provisions of this chapter are not being adhered to.
Suspension of permits shall be repealed only at such time as it is determined
by the Director of Public Works or his designee, or appointed designee, that
the owner of the property, or his or her designee, is in compliance with the
approved tree preservation plan. (Ord. 95-61, 10-23-1995; amd. 2012 Code; Ord.
2017-42, 11-13-2017)
CHAPTER 3
VILLAGE OPEN SPACE
SECTION:
8-3-1: Consent Required For Certain Activities
8-3-2: Group Use Permit Requirements
8-3-3: Hours Of Use
8-3-4: Closures
8-3-5: Administrative Rules And Regulations
8-3-6: Enforcement Of, Compliance With Provisions
8-3-7: Violation; Penalties
8-3-1: CONSENT REQUIRED FOR CERTAIN ACTIVITIES:
In the use of the open space, it shall be unlawful for any person to do or
conduct, as the case may be, any of the following activities without the prior
written consent of the duly appointed village administrator, or his or her
designee:
   A.   Engage in any business or commercial purpose (such as, by way of
example and not limitation, races or events; filming movies or commercials; or
equipment demonstrations). Individuals engaging in still camera photography are
exempt.
   B.   Drive, putt, or in any other fashion play or practice golf or use golf
balls or golf clubs.
   C.   Operate, drive, park or ride upon any motorcycle, snowmobile, off
highway vehicle, farm tractor, or any other motorized conveyance or device.
   D.   Operate or ride a bicycle, except on officially designated trails and
only when those areas are not posted to prohibit such use.
   E.   Leave any garbage, trash, cans, bottles, papers or other refuse
elsewhere than in the receptacles provided therefor; use any village trash or
waste receptacles by depositing yard clippings or other garbage or trash
generated on private property.
   F.   Encroach into the open space with any private improvements including,
but not limited to, gardens, landscaping, fences, paths or compost piles, or
store any personal property on the open space.
   G.   Use, distribute, or consume any alcoholic beverages.
   H.   Light or maintain a fire, grill, or stove; except, that fires in pits
established and maintained by the village for that purpose are permitted. If,
however, such fire constitutes a threat to public safety in the opinion of the
police or fire chief, the fire shall be extinguished.
   I.   Set up or erect any tent or shelter in or run or string any public
service utility into, upon or across any portion of the open space.
   J.   Enter, be or remain on the open space while under the influence of
alcohol or narcotics.
   K.   Violate any official posted regulatory sign. (Ord. 2008-36, 8-11-2008)
8-3-2: GROUP USE PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: A group use permit is required for use of the open
space by any group of twenty five (25) or more persons.
   B.   Request For Permit: Written requests shall be submitted to the chief of
police at least twenty one (21) calendar days in advance of the date requested
for group use of any portion of the open space, and must include the group
affiliation, date and time of use, trails or areas to be used and other details
of the requested group use.
   C.   Police Chief Recommendation: Within seven (7) calendar days of his/her
receipt of a written request for a group use permit, the chief of police shall
submit such request and a recommendation of approval or denial thereof to the
village administrator.
   D.   Administrator Imposition Of Fee Or Denial Of Permit: If, in the opinion
of the village administrator, the requested group use will cause significant
impact to the natural environment or will require significant departmental
resources, the village administrator may prescribe a fee that includes the
costs expected to be incurred by the village in connection with the requested
group use, or deny permission for the conduct of the requested group use. (Ord.
2008-36, 8-11-2008)
8-3-3: HOURS OF USE:
   A.   Unless otherwise posted, the open space shall be open daily from one
hour prior to sunrise until one hour after sunset. Except for employees of the
village acting in the performance of their duties, no person shall be or remain
in the open space at any other time, unless a written permit allowing occupancy
for extended hours is obtained in advance from the village administrator. There
is no camping or setting up of tents allowed on the open space. Automobiles and
other conveyances may not be parked, abandoned, or otherwise remain on the open
space parking lots during closed hours, except as follows:
      1.   During attendance at a function conducted or sponsored by the
village.
      2.   During attendance at a function which has been issued a group use
permit pursuant to section
8-3-2 of this chapter.
      3.   By a village employee acting in the performance of such employee's
duties.
      4.   In areas as otherwise posted.
   B.   Vehicles in violation of this section shall be subject to being towed
away at the owner's expense. (Ord. 2008-36, 8-11-2008)
8-3-4: CLOSURES:
The village board may designate all or any portion of the open space as closed
temporarily, permanently, or for an indefinite period of time. Also, the
village administrator may from time to time close all or a portion of the open
space to the public or to certain animals, or both, as the village
administrator determines necessary or desirable. A closure by the village
administrator may be for a temporary, fixed period of time or for an indefinite
period of time. Within two (2) business days of making a decision to close the
open space or any portion thereof, the village administrator shall send
notification of the closure to the village board. The village board may, at a
regularly scheduled meeting, ratify, rescind or modify the closure decision of
the village administrator. It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to
enter any portion of the open space that is closed. All closures, whether
temporary, permanent, or indefinite, and whether by the village administrator
or by the board, shall be posted at the open space subject to the closure.
(Ord. 2008-36, 8-11-2008)
8-3-5: ADMINISTRATIVE RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   The village administrator is authorized to promulgate administrative
rules and regulations that supplement the provisions of this chapter, when such
rules or regulations are determined necessary and appropriate. All persons
shall comply with such rules and regulations, which shall take effect upon
their adoption by the village.
   B.   The village administrator shall, within two (2) business days of
promulgating any administrative rules or regulations pursuant to this section,
send notification to the village board of such action. The village board shall,
at a regularly scheduled meeting, ratify, rescind or modify the rules or
regulations promulgated by the village administrator.
   C.   Rules and regulations promulgated by the village administrator, as they
may be modified by the village administrator or the village board, shall remain
in full force and effect until specifically rescinded by the village board.
(Ord. 2008-36, 8-11-2008)
8-3-6: ENFORCEMENT OF, COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
   A.   The village administrator and any law enforcement officers acting in
the line of duty shall have the authority to enforce the provisions of this
chapter and shall have the authority to eject from the open space any person
acting in violation of the provisions of this chapter or other ordinances of
the village. Further, the village shall have the authority to deny use of the
open space to individuals or groups who refuse to comply with the provisions of
this chapter and other ordinances of the village.
   B.   All persons entering the open space shall abide by the rules and
regulations of the village, as provided in this chapter and elsewhere in this
code, the rules and regulations promulgated by the village administrator, and
the instructions and directions of duly authorized agents, employees or law
enforcement officers of the village acting in their official capacity. (Ord.
2008-36, 8-11-2008)
8-3-7: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
   A.   Penalty: It is unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions
of this chapter. Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2008-36, 8-11-2008; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Additional Remedies: Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to
impair or limit any civil or criminal prosecution for any violation of this
chapter, or limit or impair the penalties that may be imposed in connection
therewith. (Ord. 2008-36, 8-11-2008)
CHAPTER 4
STORM DITCHES
SECTION:
8-4-1: Definition
8-4-2: Duty To Maintain Storm Ditches
8-4-3: Permit Required
8-4-4: Standards Required
8-4-5: Covenants Required
8-4-6: Final Approval
8-4-7: Permit Fee
8-4-8: Permits For Ditches Altered Prior To The Effective Date Hereof
8-4-9: Subsequent Owner
8-4-10: Violations
8-4-1: DEFINITION:
The term "storm ditch" shall mean open storm drainage facilities, or any storm
drainage facilities which were open when first constructed, contained in the
right of way of the municipal highway system, as defined in 605 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/2-104, or contained in public drainage easements. (Ord. 75-
10, 3-24-1975)
8-4-2: DUTY TO MAINTAIN STORM DITCHES:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the village to maintain all residential storm
ditch facilities located within public rights of way or within public easements
in their original condition to ensure proper drainage.
   B.   Pursuant to the subsequent provisions of this chapter, it shall be the
duty of every property owner and lessee of property in the village with a storm
ditch facility located abutting his property, that has altered or who alters in
the future the original condition of such ditch, to maintain the storm ditch so
that the drainage capacity remains equal to or greater than the maximum
capacity that the ditch could previously handle. (Ord. 75-10, 3-24-1975)
8-4-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person, firm or corporation shall obstruct, interfere with or in any way
alter any storm ditch in the village of Bloomingdale without first securing a
permit as required herein. Application for such permit shall be made in writing
to the village clerk on forms to be supplied by the village, a copy of which is
attached to the ordinance codified herein, marked as exhibit A, and by
reference is made a part hereof. (Ord. 75-10, 3-24-1975)
8-4-4: STANDARDS REQUIRED:
Any such improvements must be approved prior to the issuance of a permit by the
village engineer on the basis of inspection of plans and on site inspection by
the village. The village engineer shall approve those applications which, in
his judgment, will result in a drainage flow at least as large as that handled
by the existing unobstructed storm ditch at each particular site. Any
improvement which is substantially identical to the proposed drainage facility
plan attached to the ordinance codified herein, marked as exhibit B and by
reference made a part hereof, will be presumed to be adequate, subject to on
site inspections and approval of the plans by the village engineer. (Ord. 75-
10, 3-24-1975)
8-4-5: COVENANTS REQUIRED:
In addition to the requirements of sections
8-4-3 and
8-4-4 of this chapter, no permit shall be issued until the applicant has
executed an agreement containing the following terms. Such agreement shall be
in consideration for the issuance of permit as provided herein, and shall
provide: a) to the best of the applicant's knowledge and belief, the proposed
improvement will provide drainage equal to the storm ditch in its original
condition; b) the applicant will maintain the improved drainage facility so
that drainage remains unimpaired at all times; c) if the applicant ever fails
to maintain the ditch, the village may, at the village's option, maintain the
facility or remove the improvement and restore the ditch to its original
condition, at the expense of the applicant; d) the applicant will place a copy
of these agreements of record with the DuPage County recorder's office with
respect to the property abutting the ditch for which a permit is issued. (Ord.
75-10, 3-24-1975)
8-4-6: FINAL APPROVAL:
Such permit shall be effective only for a period of six (6) months and actual
construction of the improvement shall begin within this period. After such six
(6) month period, a new permit shall be required. The completion of any such
improvement must be reported to the village for the purpose of a final
inspection by the village engineer to determine that the improvement is as
indicated in the application. If so, final approval shall be granted. If the
village engineer determines that the improvement as constructed differs from
the plans submitted by the applicant in such a manner that drainage will be
impaired, the applicant shall have thirty (30) days to correct the improvement
as indicated by the engineer. Failure to either correct or restore the ditch to
its original condition within said thirty (30) days shall constitute a
violation of this chapter. (Ord. 75-10, 3-24-1975)
8-4-7: PERMIT FEE:
There shall be a permit fee established by the village, payable at the time of
application for the permit. Such fee is for the purpose of recovering the cost
of inspection and approval of the improvement, and is nonrefundable. (Ord. 75-
10, 3-24-1975)
8-4-8: PERMITS FOR DITCHES ALTERED PRIOR TO THE EFFECTIVE DATE HEREOF:
Except where a valid, existing contract with the village provides otherwise,
all property owners who have previously altered storm ditches abutting their
property shall obtain a permit for such alteration as hereinbefore provided
within six (6) months after the effective date hereof. If an application for
such permit is not made within the required time, the village may give notice
to such owners that if application is not made within thirty (30) days of the
date of notice, the village may restore the ditch to its original condition in
order to facilitate maintenance of free drainage by the village. (Ord. 75-10,
3-24-1975)
8-4-9: SUBSEQUENT OWNER:
When any subsequent owner of land abutting a storm drainage ditch altered
pursuant to this chapter neglects or refuses to maintain the facility, the
village may give notice that the ditch will be restored to its original
condition by the village if an agreement as provided in section
8-4-5 of this chapter is not executed by such owners in thirty (30) days. (Ord.
75-10, 3-24-1975)
8-4-10: VIOLATIONS:
Any person, firm or corporation who violates, neglects or refuses to comply
with or who resists the enforcement of this chapter, shall, upon conviction, be
fined a maximum of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for each offense. Each
day a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 75-10, 3-24-1975)
CHAPTER 5
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
SECTION:
8-5-1: Purpose And Scope
8-5-2: Definitions
8-5-3: Regulation Of Small Wireless Facilities
8-5-4: Dispute Resolution
8-5-5: Indemnification
8-5-6: Insurance
8-5-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the Village's jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the Village exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act, Public Act 100-0585.
   B.   Conflicts With Other Ordinances: This chapter supersedes all ordinances
or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to
the extent of such conflict. As to the subject matter hereof, this title is
hereby superseded as to any other conflicting sections thereof, but remains in
force for sections that do not conflict.
   C.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
Federal or State laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating Federal or State laws
or regulations. (Ord. 2018-30, 7-23-2018)
8-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
ANTENNA: Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
APPLICABLE CODES: Building, Fire, Electrical, Plumbing, or Mechanical Codes
adopted by a recognized national code organization or local amendments to those
codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
APPLICANT: Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
APPLICATION: A request submitted by an applicant to the Village for a permit to
collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
COLLOCATE OR COLLOCATION: To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Cable service, as defined in 47 USC 522(6), as amended;
information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER: A cable operator, as defined in 47 USC 522(5),
as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as
amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 USC 153(51), as
amended; or a wireless provider.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
FEE: A one-time charge.
HISTORIC DISTRICT OR HISTORIC LANDMARK: A building, property, or site, or group
of buildings, properties, or sites that are either: a) listed in the National
Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for listing by the
Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been delegated the
authority by the Federal agency to list properties and determine their
eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with section VI.D.1.a.i
through section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement codified at
47 CFR part 1, appendix C; or b) designated as a locally landmarked building,
property, site, or historic district by an ordinance adopted by the Village
pursuant to a preservation program that meets the requirements of the Certified
Local Government Program of the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office or
where such certification of the preservation program by the Illinois State
Historic Preservation Office is pending.
LAW: A Federal or State Statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order, or
local ordinance or resolution.
MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY: A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than twenty four inches (24") in length, fifteen inches (15") in
width, and twelve inches (12") in height and that has an exterior antenna, if
any, no longer than eleven inches (11").
MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE: A utility pole owned or operated by the Village in
public rights-of-way.
PERMIT: A written authorization required by the Village to perform an action or
initiate, continue, or complete a project.
PERSON: An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY: The functional division of the Federal government, the
State, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this State, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
RATE: A recurring charge.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway, street,
public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible use.
Right-of-way does not include Village-owned aerial lines.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: A wireless facility that meets both of the following
qualifications: a) each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than
six (6) cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed
elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an
imaginary enclosure of no more than six (6) cubic feet; and b) all other
wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the
facility is cumulatively no more than twenty five (25) cubic feet in volume.
The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the
calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services.
UTILITY POLE: A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part by a
communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting, traffic
control, or a similar function.
WIRELESS FACILITY: Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
a) equipment associated with wireless communications; and b) radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
Wireless facility includes small wireless facilities. Wireless facility does
not include: a) the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or b) wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber
optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or
coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with an antenna.
WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the State that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the Village.
WIRELESS PROVIDER: A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
WIRELESS SERVICES: Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER: A person who provides wireless services.
WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. Wireless support structure does not include a utility pole. (Ord.
2018-30, 7-23-2018)
8-5-3: REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES:
   A.   Permitted Use: Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
subsection C9 of this section regarding height exceptions or variances, but not
subject to zoning review or approval if they are collocated: 1) in rights-of-
way in any zoning district, or 2) outside rights-of-way in property zoned
exclusively for commercial or industrial use.
   B.   Permit Required: An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from the
Village to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be
received and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following
conditions and requirements:
      1.   Application Requirements: A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the Village, together with the Village's Small
Wireless Facilities Permit Application, as a condition of any permit
application to collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or
wireless support structure:
         a.   Site specific structural integrity and, for a Municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
         b.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include an "as-built"
depiction;
         c.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer, as
that term is defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
         d.   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         e.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
         f.   Certification that the collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant's
knowledge.
         g.   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the Village, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      2.   Application Process: The Village shall process applications as
follows:
         a.   Priority: The first completed application shall have priority
over applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
         b.   Existing Utility Pole: An application to collocate a small
wireless facility on an existing utility pole or wireless support structure
shall be processed on a nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if
the Village fails to approve or deny the application within ninety (90) days
after the submission of a completed application.
However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the Village in writing of its
intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than seventy five (75)
days after the submission of a completed application.
The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 90th day after
submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the receipt of the
deemed approved notice by the Village. The receipt of the deemed approved
notice shall not preclude the Village's denial of the permit request within the
time limits as provided under this chapter.
         c.   New Utility Pole: An application to collocate a small wireless
facility that includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be
processed on a nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the Village fails
to approve or deny the application within one hundred twenty (120) days after
the submission of a completed application.
However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the Village in writing of its
intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than one hundred five
(105) days after the submission of a completed application.
The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 120th day after
submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the receipt of the
deemed approved notice by the Village. The receipt of the deemed approved
notice shall not preclude the Village's denial of the permit request within the
time limits as provided under this chapter.
         d.   Denial: The Village shall deny an application which does not meet
the requirements of this chapter.
If the Village determines that applicable codes, ordinances or regulations that
concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and conditions contained
in this chapter require that the utility pole or wireless support structure be
replaced before the requested collocation, approval shall be conditioned on the
replacement of the utility pole or wireless support structure at the cost of
the provider.
The Village shall document the basis for a denial, including the specific code
provisions or application conditions on which the denial is based, and send the
documentation to the applicant on or before the day the Village denies an
application.
The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the Village and resubmit
the revised application once within thirty (30) days after notice of denial is
sent to the applicant without paying an additional application fee. The Village
shall approve or deny the revised application within thirty (30) days after the
applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure to
resubmit the revised application within thirty (30) days of denial shall
require the applicant to submit a new application with applicable fees, and
recommencement of the Village's review period.
The applicant must notify the Village in writing of its intention to proceed
with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, which may be submitted
with the revised application.
Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the deficiencies cited
in the denial. However, this revised application does not apply if the cure
requires the review of a new location, new or different structure to be
collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment associated with the
small wireless facility.
         e.   Pole Attachment Agreement: Within thirty (30) days after an
approved permit, the Village and the applicant shall enter into a Master Pole
Attachment Agreement, provided by the Village. For subsequent approved permits
to collocate on a small wireless facility on a Municipal utility pole, the
Village and the applicant shall enter into a License Supplement of the Master
Pole Attachment Agreement.
      3.   Completeness Of Application: Within thirty (30) days after receiving
an application, the Village must determine whether the application is complete
and notify the applicant. If an application is incomplete, the Village must
specifically identify the missing information. An application shall be deemed
complete if the Village fails to provide notification to the applicant within
thirty (30) days after all documents, information and fees specifically
enumerated in the Village's permit application form are submitted by the
applicant to the Village.
Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the Village sends the notice of
incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing information.
      4.   Tolling: The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
         a.   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the
Village; or
         b.   A local, State or Federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
      5.   Consolidated Applications: An applicant seeking to collocate small
wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the Village shall be allowed, at
the applicant's discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a
single permit for the collocation of up to twenty five (25) small wireless
facilities if the collocations each involve substantially the same type of
small wireless facility and substantially the same type of structure.
If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities, the Village may
remove small wireless facility collocations from the application and treat
separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The Village may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
      6.   Duration Of Permits: The duration of a permit shall be for a period
of not less than five (5) years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent
durations unless the Village makes a finding that the small wireless facilities
or the new or modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable Village
codes or any provision, condition or requirement contained in this chapter.
If PA 100-0585 is repealed as provided in section 90 of the Act, renewals of
permits shall be subject to the applicable Village Code provisions or
regulations in effect at the time of renewal.
      7.   Means Of Submitting Applications: Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the Village by personal
delivery at the Village's designated place of business, by regular mail
postmarked on the date due or by any other commonly used means, including
electronic mail.
   C.   Collocation Requirements And Conditions:
      1.   Public Safety Space Reservation: The Village may reserve space on
Municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the Village's
electric utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the Village reasonably
determines that the Municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
      2.   Installation And Maintenance: The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
chapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contractors that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
      3.   No Interference With Public Safety Communication Frequencies: The
wireless provider's operation of the small wireless facilities shall not
interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for public safety
communications.
A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of the type and
frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a public safety
agency's communications equipment.
Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in accordance with
industry standards and the FCC's regulations addressing unacceptable
interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum licensed by a
public safety agency.
If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the wireless
provider has been given written notice of the interference by the public safety
agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy the
interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR
90.675.
The Village may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility based on such
interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with the Code of
Federal Regulations cited in the previous paragraph. Failure to remedy the
interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
      4.   Certain Restrictions On Collocation: The wireless provider shall not
collocate small wireless facilities on Village utility poles that are part of
an electric distribution or transmission system within the communication worker
safety zone of the pole or the electric supply zone of the pole.
However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless facility may
be located in the communications space on the Village utility pole and on the
top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless provider
complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
For purposes of this subparagraph, the terms "communications space",
"communication worker safety zone", and "electric supply zone" have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
      5.   Compliance With Public Safety Requirements: The wireless provider
shall comply with all applicable codes and local code provisions or regulations
that concern public safety.
      6.   Compliance With Design Standards: The wireless provider shall comply
with written design standards that are generally applicable for decorative
utility poles, or reasonable stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements
that are set forth in a Village ordinance, written policy adopted by the
Village, a comprehensive plan or other written design plan that applies to
other occupiers of the rights-of-way, including on a historic landmark or in a
historic district.
      7.   Alternate Placements: With respect to an application for the
collocation of a small wireless facility associated with a new utility pole,
the Village may propose that the small wireless facility be collocated on an
existing utility pole or existing wireless support structure within one hundred
feet (100') of the proposed collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it
has the right to use the alternate structure on reasonable terms and
conditions, and the alternate location and structure does not impose technical
limits or additional material costs as determined by the applicant.
If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the Village, the applicant
shall provide written certification describing the property rights, technical
limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does not satisfy the
criteria in this paragraph.
      8.   Height Limitations: The Village maximum height of a small wireless
facility shall be no more than ten feet (10') above the utility pole or
wireless support structure on which the small wireless facility is collocated.
      9.   Height Exceptions Or Variances: If an applicant proposes a height in
excess of ten feet (10') above the utility pole or wireless support structure
on which the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant
shall apply for a special use permit in conformance with procedures, terms and
conditions set forth in the Village of Bloomingdale's zoning ordinance and
Zoning Code. A special use permit, when granted, shall limit the height of any
proposed wireless facility to the higher of:
         a.   Ten feet (10') in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the Village, that is located within
three hundred feet (300') of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless
support structure and that is in the same right-of-way within the
jurisdictional boundary of the Village, provided the Village may designate
which intersecting right-of-way within three hundred feet (300') of the
proposed utility pole or wireless support structures shall control the height
limitation for such facility; or
         b.   Forty five feet (45') above ground level.
      10.   Collocation Completion Deadline: Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within one hundred eighty (180) days after issuance
of the permit, unless the Village and the wireless provider agree to extend
this period or a delay is caused by make-ready work for a Municipal utility
pole or by the lack of commercial power or backhaul availability at the site,
provided the wireless provider has made a timely request within sixty (60) days
after the issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and
the additional time to complete installation does not exceed three hundred
sixty (360) days after issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the permit shall be
void unless the Village grants an extension in writing to the applicant.
   D.   Application Fees: Application fees are imposed as follows:
      1.   Applicant shall pay an application fee of six hundred fifty dollars
($650.00) for an application to collocate a single small wireless facility on
an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, and three hundred fifty
dollars ($350.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in a consolidated
application to collocate more than one small wireless facility on existing
utility poles or wireless support structures.
      2.   Applicant shall pay an application fee of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in an application that
includes the installation of a new utility pole for such collocation.
      3.   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of State law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
      4.   The Village shall not require an application, approval or permit, or
require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights- of-way, for:
         a.   Routine maintenance;
         b.   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the Village at least ten (10) days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with subsection B1d of this section; or
         c.   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable Safety Codes.
      5.   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the Village to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
   E.   Exceptions To Applicability: Nothing in this chapter authorizes a
person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
      1.   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled by
the Village or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately-owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
      2.   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
      3.   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under section 18c-7201
of the Illinois Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public commuter
rail service, or an electric utility as defined in section 16-102 of the Public
Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail
service, or electric utility. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to an
electric or gas public utility or such utility's wireless facilities if the
facilities are being used, developed and maintained consistent with the
provisions of subsection (i) of section 16-108.5 of the Public Utilities Act.
For the purposes of this subsection, "public utility" has the meaning given to
that term in section 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement: a) to obtain a
franchise or a State-issued authorization to offer cable service or video
service or b) to obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain, or
operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities subject
to this chapter.
   F.   Pre-Existing Agreements: Existing agreements between the Village and
wireless providers that relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities
in the right-of-way, including the collocation of small wireless facilities on
Village utility poles, that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for
all small wireless facilities collocated on the Village's utility poles
pursuant to applications submitted to the Village before June 1, 2018, subject
to applicable termination provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into
after June 1, 2018, shall comply with this chapter.
A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the Village on the
effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the Village
makes available under this chapter for the collocation of small wireless
facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the collocation of
small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application submitted two
(2) or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying the Village
that it opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The existing agreement
remains in effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for the small
wireless facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the Village's
utility poles pursuant to applications submitted to the Village before the
wireless provider provides such notice and exercises its option under this
paragraph.
   G.   Annual Recurring Rate: A wireless provider shall pay to the Village an
annual recurring rate to collocate a small wireless facility on a Village
utility pole located in a right-of-way that equals: 1) two hundred dollars
($200.00) per year or 2) the actual, direct and reasonable costs related to the
wireless provider's use of space on the Village utility pole.
If the Village has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct costs,
the fee shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00) payable on the first day after
the first annual anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent
to collocate, and on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
   H.   Abandonment: A small wireless facility that is not operated for a
continuous period of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned. The
owner of the facility shall remove the small wireless facility within ninety
(90) days after receipt of written notice from the Village notifying the
wireless provider of the abandonment.
The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, by the Village to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within ninety
(90) days of such notice, the Village may remove or cause the removal of such
facility pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for Municipal
utility poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of
nuisances or by other law for removal and cost recovery.
A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the Village if it sells or
transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the Village.
Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new wireless
provider. (Ord. 2018-30, 7-23-2018)
8-5-4: DISPUTE RESOLUTION:
The Eighteenth Judicial Circuit Court of DuPage County, Illinois shall have
exclusive jurisdiction to resolve all disputes arising under the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for
collocation of small wireless facilities on Municipal utility poles within the
right- of-way, the Village shall allow the collocating person to collocate on
its poles at annual rates of no more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) per
year per Municipal utility pole, with rates to be determined upon final
resolution of the dispute. (Ord. 2018-30, 7-23-2018)
8-5-5: INDEMNIFICATION:
A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the Village harmless against any
and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting
from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the
Village improvements or right- of-way associated with such improvements by the
wireless provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the
rights and privileges granted under this chapter and the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act. A wireless provider has no obligation to indemnify
or hold harmless against any liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused
by the sole negligence of the Village or its employees or agents. A wireless
provider shall further waive any claims that they may have against the Village
with respect to consequential, incidental, or special damages, however caused,
based on the theory of liability. (Ord. 2018-30, 7-23-2018)
8-5-6: INSURANCE:
The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider's own cost and
expense, the following insurance:
   A.   Property insurance for its property's replacement cost against all
risks;
   B.   Workers' compensation insurance, as required by law; or
   C.   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its activities
on the Village improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum protection
limits consistent with its requirements of other users of Village improvements
or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and property damage.
The wireless provider shall include the Village as an additional insured on the
commercial general liability policy and provide certification and documentation
of inclusion of the Village in a commercial general liability policy prior to
the collocation of any wireless facility.
A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance coverage
and limit requirement required by the Village. A wireless provider that self-
insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to comply with
the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this section. A
wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to the Village
evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self- insure the
insurance coverage limits required by the Village. (Ord. 2018-30, 7-23-2018)
TITLE 9
WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL WATER AND SEWER REGULATIONS; RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
9-1-1: Application For Service; Approval And Connection
9-1-2: Compliance With Village Regulations
9-1-3: Connection Fees
9-1-3-1: Definitions
9-1-3-2: Fees Established
9-1-3-3: Demolition Of Structures/New Connection Fees
9-1-4: Meters And Fees
9-1-5: Temporary Connections
9-1-6: Rates And Charges
9-1-7: Volume Of Flow
9-1-8: Bills For Service; Liability; Delinquencies
9-1-9: Revenues
9-1-10: Accounting And Reporting
9-1-11: Inspection Of Records
9-1-12: Notice Of Rates
9-1-13: Prohibited Acts
9-1-14: Connection Penalty
9-1-1: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE; APPROVAL AND CONNECTION:
   A.   Application For Service: No water from the Village water supply shall
be turned on for service, nor shall any dwelling unit, building, structure, or
premises be connected to any sanitary sewer until the owner or occupant of such
dwelling unit, building, structure, or premises has filed an application
therefor with the Village Finance Director- Treasurer or his designee, and has
paid all connection fees and meter fees required by this chapter. The
application shall be made on the form provided by the Village Finance Director-
Treasurer or a designee or by such other means acceptable to the Village. By
making application to the Village for the right to connect to and use the water
and sewer facilities of the Village, the applicant agrees to abide by the
provisions of this chapter and all other applicable ordinances and regulations
of the Village relating to the Village water and sewage disposal service.
   B.   Application Fee: In addition to other fees included herein to be paid
by an applicant to the Village at the time of filing an application for the
right to connect to and use the water or sewer facilities of the Village, such
applicant shall be assessed an application fee of ten dollars ($10.00), which
fee shall be used to defray the costs of handling the application for
connection and for turning on such services. Said application fee will be
assessed and added to the applicant's utility account. (Ord. 2011-19, 5-23-
2011)
   C.   Security Deposit: Each application for connection to the Village water
or sewer system shall be assessed a security deposit in the sum of one hundred
dollars ($100.00), which deposit shall be held in the Village Treasury as
security for the payment of all future charges made and assessed to the
applicant by the Village for use of the water or sewer facilities of the
Village. Said security deposit will be assessed and added to the applicant's
utility account. A security deposit is required for each utility account
established on the books and records of the Village or, in the case of a multi-
dwelling unit building, for each dwelling unit serviced by a single water
meter. The security deposit will be refunded to the applicant, without
interest, upon the termination of service to the applicant's dwelling unit,
building, structure or premises; provided, that all fees and charges due and
owing the Village for water or sewer service have been paid in full to the
Village. If any fees or charges are unpaid and are outstanding at the time of
such termination, then the deposit shall be forfeited to the Village, at its
option, in partial satisfaction of the applicant's unpaid account. (Ord. 2012-
20, 4-23-2012)
   D.   Connection To System: Upon receipt of notification from the Finance
Director-Treasurer or a designee that the application provided for in this
section has been approved, and that all connection and meter fees have been
paid, the Building Commissioner or a designee shall connect the affected
dwelling unit, building, structure, or premises to the waterworks and sewerage
system, or to the appropriate part thereof. (Ord. 2011-19, 5-23-2011; amd. 2012
Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
9-1-2: COMPLIANCE WITH VILLAGE REGULATIONS:
No connection to the waterworks and sewerage system, or any part thereof, shall
be made for service to any dwelling unit, building, structure, or premises in
which the plumbing does not comply with the ordinances of the Village;
provided, that water may be turned on for construction work in unfinished
buildings, subject to the provisions of this chapter and all other applicable
ordinances and regulations of the Village concerning water and sewer services.
(Ord. 2011-19, 5-23-2011)
9-1-3: CONNECTION FEES:
   A.   Requirements For Connections: No direct or indirect connections to or
use of the Village waterworks or sewerage system shall be made without the
issuance of all necessary permits, the payment of all applicable fees and
charges, and only after at least forty eight (48) hours' notice is given to the
Building Department by the permittee. (Ord. 2012-45, 11-26-2012; amd. Ord.
2017-42, 11-13-2017)
   B.   Connection Fees Applicable: The connection charges included in this
chapter are applicable to all connections made to the Village waterworks and
sewerage system and are intended to reasonably compensate the Village for the
cost of construction, expansion and extension of the works of the system, as
authorized by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-150-1, said fees being based
on the determination of the Village Board that the fees set out herein are
reasonable calculations of the amount each new user should equitably pay to
reimburse the Village as described above. In addition to other fees included in
this chapter, the applicant for water and sewer service shall pay to the
Village, at the time of filing the permit application for water or sewer
service, a connection fee in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-45, 11-26-2012)
9-1-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the determination of an applicable
connection fee:
BUSINESS, COMMERCIAL, GOVERNMENTAL, INSTITUTIONAL, RELIGIOUS, NOT FOR PROFIT OR
INDUSTRIAL CONNECTION: Any structure intended and zoned for uses other than
residential.
MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING UNIT: Any residential structure which does not meet
the definition of a "single-family dwelling unit" as defined in this section.
The term multiple-family dwelling unit includes duplexes, townhomes,
condominiums and apartments.
SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING UNIT: Any structure intended as a residence of one
family, and as properly located within a single-family zoning district or area
also commonly known as a "detached single-family unit". (Ord. 2012-45, 11-26-
2012)
9-1-3-2: FEES ESTABLISHED:
Effective for connection fees on or after September 1, 2015, the following
shall apply in the determination of an applicable connection fee:
   A.   Single-family dwelling unit:
      1.   Water and sewer: Eleven thousand seven hundred forty dollars
($11,740.00) per unit.
      2.   Water only: One thousand one hundred forty dollars ($1,140.00) per
unit.
      3.   Sewer only: Ten thousand six hundred dollars ($10,600.00) per unit.
   B.   Multiple-family dwelling unit:
      1.   Water and sewer: Eight thousand eight hundred five dollars
($8,805.00) per unit.
      2.   Water only: Eight hundred fifty five dollars ($855.00) per unit.
      3.   Sewer only: Seven thousand nine hundred fifty dollars ($7,950.00)
per unit. (Ord. 2015-39, 8-10-2015)
   C.   Business, commercial, governmental, institutional, religious, not for
profit, or industrial connection: Connection fees for these types of structures
and uses, as determined by classification under the Village Zoning Code, shall
be calculated by the Village Engineer or designee according to standard
engineering practices relative to the determination of population equivalents
(PE), using comparable water consumption data, number of employees, land area,
and/or the water and sewer demand characteristics of such uses being thereby
served. The water connection fee shall be two hundred eighty five dollars
($285.00) per PE. The sewer connection fee shall be two thousand six hundred
fifty dollars ($2,650.00) per PE.
   D.   Expansion of business, commercial, governmental, institutional,
religious, not for profit, or industrial uses: Connection fees for these types
of structures and uses, as determined by classification under the Village
Zoning Code, that are issued a building permit for expansion shall pay an
additional connection fee for the use of the Village waterworks or sewerage
system. The connection fee for such an expansion shall be calculated by the
Village Engineer in the same manner as described in subsection C of this
section. (Ord. 2015-39, 8-10-2015; amd. Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
9-1-3-3: DEMOLITION OF STRUCTURES/NEW CONNECTION FEES:
   A.   Disconnections And Reconnections To The Village's Waterworks And
Sewerage System Due To Demolition Of Structures: When any type of structure or
use, listed in section
9-1-3-1 of this chapter, that is connected to the Village's waterworks and
sewerage system is to be completely demolished, and all utilities, including,
but not limited to, water, sanitary sewer, electric, and natural gas must be
physically exposed by way of excavation, a water and sewer connection fee will
be applied, as calculated by the Village Engineer or designee according to
standard engineering practices relative to the determination of population
equivalents (PE) using comparable water consumption data, number of employees,
land area, and/or the water and sewer demand characteristics of such uses being
thereby served, due to, and in consideration of one or more of the following
factors: (Ord. 2015-39, 8-10-2015; amd. Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
      1.   Increases in nonresidential water connection sizes made necessary by
the Village's fire suppression requirements as provided in section
10-10-1 et seq., of this Code;
      2.   Increases in the residential water connection sizes made necessary
by the general increase in the number of fixtures and fixture units in new
homes; (Ord. 2015-39, 8-10-2015)
      3.   Any overall increase to the demand on the Village's water and/or
sewerage system by all new or modified uses as calculated by the Village
Engineer according to standard engineering practices relative to the
determination of population equivalents (PE) using comparable water consumption
data, number of employees, land area, and/or the water and sewer demand
characteristics of such uses being thereby served; and (Ord. 2015-39, 8-10-
2015; amd. Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
      4.   Various Village water and sewerage capital improvement plans.
The water and sewer connection fee amounts will be assessed according to the
provisions of section
9-1-3-2 of this chapter. A minimum fee of four (4) PE will be assessed to all
business, commercial, governmental, institutional, religious, not for profit,
or industrial uses. This requirement for water and sewer connection fees shall
not apply to a structure which is to be rebuilt in substantially the same
manner after having been destroyed by fire, wind or some other "act of God".
(Ord. 2015-39, 8-10-2015)
   B.   Other Voluntary Disconnections And Reconnections: A water and sewer
connection fee shall not be applied to any type of structure or use, listed in
section
9-1-3-1 of this chapter, for reasons other than what is described in subsection
9-1-3-2D of this chapter, that would require the disconnection or relocation of
the water and/or sanitary sewer service, such as accommodating a driveway or
surface parking rehabilitation or relocation.
   C.   Disconnection From Other Municipal Systems: Whenever any property owner
applies for connection to the Village's water and sewerage system and, at the
time of such application has an existing water and sewer service connection to
another Municipal water and sewerage system, then the water and sewer
connection fee required by this section may be waived by the Village Board if
the property owner disconnects from the other Municipal water and sewer system,
prior to or at the time of connection to the Village's water and sewer system.
All other applicable fees, charges, or expenses otherwise contained in this
Code shall be paid, and the property owner shall comply with the applicable
laws, codes, rules, regulations, and ordinances. (Ord. 2012-45, 11-26-2012)
9-1-4: METERS AND FEES:
   A.   Meter Fee:
      1.   In addition to other fees included herein, the applicant for water
and sewer service shall pay to the Village, at the time of filing the
application for water or sewer service, a meter fee in accordance with this
section. Said meter fee is intended to reimburse the Village for the cost of a
water meter, radio transmitter (MXU) and all ancillary hardware required for
the installation and maintenance thereof. Said water meter, and MXU and
hardware are essential to the proper operation of the waterworks and sewerage
system, and are the property of the Village. Meter fees shall be:
Meter Size Use Meter Fee
Meter Size Use              Meter Fee
¾"        Residential      $ 500.00
¾"        Non-Residenti al $ 845.00
1"         Residential      $ 575.00
1"         Non-Residenti al $ 890.00
1½"       All              $ 2,800.00
2"         All              $ 3,000.00
3"         All              $ 4,120.00
4"         All              $ 6,375.00
 
      2.   The Building Commissioner or a designee shall determine the required
meter size.
   B.   Location Of Meter: All water meters, MXUs and related appurtenances
related to the measuring of water usage will be located in the interior of the
building being served unless otherwise approved by the Building Commissioner or
a designee.
   C.   Maintenance Requirements: The Village shall be responsible for the
maintenance of all water meters and MXUs and, as such, shall have access, upon
providing reasonable notice to the occupant or property owner of the premises,
to the water meter and MXU located thereon. If the occupant or property owner
of the premises declines to grant access to the Village for the purpose of
maintaining the water meter or MXU, the Village may suspend, cut off or
otherwise terminate water service to the premises upon providing reasonable
notice thereof and an opportunity to discuss the matter with the Director of
Public Works, until access is granted. All fees and charges contained herein
shall apply to reinstate water service. (Ord. 2011-19, 5-23-2011; amd. 2012
Code; Ord. 2012-20, 4-23-2012; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017; Ord. 2024-26, 6-10-
2024)
9-1-5: TEMPORARY CONNECTIONS:
In those instances in which connections are intended for the purposes of
supplying water for use in construction or other similar use on a temporary
basis, the following regulations shall apply:
   A.   Such connections may be made to three-fourths inch (3/4") diameter (or
smaller) lines only and only after filing an application for hydrant meter
rental. (Ord. 2011-19, 5-23-2011)
   B.   In addition to all other fees provided herein, and in addition to all
charges for the consumption of water, the user shall pay to the Village a fee
of twenty dollars ($20.00) to be used to defray the costs of handling the
hydrant meter rental application and ten dollars ($10.00) per each day such
temporary connection is in place. As a condition precedent to the issuance of
the permit for such temporary connection, the applicant for the permit shall
deposit with the Village the sum of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) to
secure the payment of fees related to such connection. (Ord. 2012-20, 4-23-
2012)
   C.   No such temporary connection may be in place for a period in excess of
thirty (30) days. A temporary meter shall be installed in such connection, and
a permanent meter shall be installed as soon thereafter as is reasonably
possible.
   D.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to water connections
made where the use of the water is primarily intended for purposes of
performing services of direct benefit to the Village and pursuant to a contract
with the Village for such services.
   E.   The user of any temporary meter is responsible for the replacement cost
of the meter in the event the meter is lost, stolen or damaged. (Ord. 2011-19,
5-23-2011)
9-1-6: RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Within Corporate Limits:
      1.   Metered Charges:
         a.   Effective for water use on or after June 1, 2025, the following
charges are established for water and sewerage service:
  WATER SEWER
                                                                WATER  SEWER
RESIDENTIAL:
 First 2,500 gallons per month or any portion thereof (minimum $22.55 $11.33
  bill)
 Next 9,500 gallons per month (per 1,000 gallons)              $9.02  $4.53
 All over 12,000 gallons per month (per 1,000 gallons)         $9.02  $0.00
NON-RESIDENTIAL:
 First 2,500 gallons per month or any portion thereof (minimum $24.95 $11.33
  bill)
 All over 2,500 gallons per month (per 1,000 gallons)          $9.98  $4.53
      
      2.   Nonmetered Users; Flat Rate: All nonmetered residential and
nonresidential users shall pay a flat rate charge per month for sewer use that
is equivalent to six thousand (6,000) gallons multiplied by the sewer rate in
effect at the time the utility bill is rendered. In the event use of the
sewerage facilities is determined by the Village to be in excess of six
thousand (6,000) gallons per month, the Village may require such flat rate user
to install metering devices on the water supply or sewer main to measure the
amount of service provided.
      3.   Multiple Housing Units: All multiple housing unit types, such as
duplex buildings, townhouses, apartment buildings and buildings containing
flats shall be charged for services in accordance with the number of units
contained in said duplex buildings, townhouses, apartment buildings and
buildings containing flats, at the residential user rate established herein.
   B.   Outside Corporate Limits: Effective for usage billed on or after April
1, 1999, all users outside the corporate limits of the Village of Bloomingdale
shall be billed one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the rates set forth herein.
(Ord. 2011-42, 12-12-2011; amd. Ord. 2016-20, 5-9-2016; Ord. 2018-24, 6-11-
2018; Ord. 2019-20, 5-28-2019; Ord. 2022-25, 6-13-2022; Ord. 2023-25, 5-22-
2023; Ord. 2024-22, 5-28-2024; Ord. 2025-24, 5-27-2025)
9-1-7: VOLUME OF FLOW:
   A.   The volume of flow used for computing user charges shall be the metered
water consumption read to the lowest even increments of one thousand (1,000)
gallons. Should a discrepancy exist between a read from a remote reading device
and a read from an inside reading device, the inside reading device shall
govern. (Ord. 2011-19, 5-23-2011)
   B.   If the person, firm, corporation or other entity discharging waste into
the public sewers procures some or all potable water from sources other than
the Village waterworks system, all or part of which is discharged into the
Village sewers, the person, firm, corporation or other entity shall install and
maintain, at its expense, water meters of a type approved by the Building
Commissioner for the purpose of determining the volume of water obtained from
these other sources.
   C.   Devices for measuring the volume of sewage discharged may be required
by the Building Commissioner if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined
from the metered water consumption records.
   D.   Metering devices for determining the volume of sewage shall be
installed, owned, and maintained by the person, firm, corporation or other
entity. Following approval and installation, such meters may not be removed,
unless service is canceled, without the written consent of the Building
Commissioner. (Ord. 2011-19, 5-23-2011; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-
2017)
9-1-8: BILLS FOR SERVICE; LIABILITY; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   Rendition Of Bill; Payment Due: It is hereby made the duty of the
Finance Director-Treasurer or a designee to render bills for service and for
rates and charges in connection therewith and to collect all monies due
thereon. Said bills shall specify separately the amounts due for water and for
sewer service.
      1.   "Active" Account Billings: Bills for water and/or sewer service
shall be prepared and mailed bimonthly succeeding the period for which service
is being billed. Bills shall be due and payable fifteen (15) days after being
mailed.
      2.   "Final" Account Billings: Final bills for water and/or sewer service
shall be prepared and mailed at least monthly. Bills shall be due and payable
fifteen (15) days after being mailed.
   B.   Liability For Service: The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof,
and the user of the service shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for
the service on such premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by
the village upon the condition that the owner of the premises and the occupant
and user of the services are jointly and severally liable therefor to the
village. (Ord. 2011-19, 5-23-2011)
   C.   Delinquent Bills And Charges:
      1.   "Active" Account Billings:
         a.   In the event the charges for services are not paid within fifteen
(15) days after being mailed, such charges shall be deemed and are hereby
declared to be delinquent, and a ten percent (10%) late charge fee, calculated
off of and based on the amount of the most recently rendered bill, shall be
added thereto, and a reminder notice shall be mailed notifying the resident
that payment for water service is due. Thereafter, such delinquencies shall
constitute liens upon the real estate for which such service is supplied, and
the finance director- treasurer or a designee is hereby authorized and may file
sworn statements in the office of the county recorder of deeds showing such
delinquencies, and the filing of such statements shall be deemed notice for the
payment of such charges for service.
         b.   In the event charges for services are not paid within thirty (30)
days after being mailed, a final notice shall be mailed, notifying the resident
of an opportunity to discuss the matter with the village administrator, and
that the water service will be discontinued. Said notice shall specify the date
the water service will be shut off, which shall be not less than ten (10) days
from the day said final notice was mailed. A fifteen dollar ($15.00) charge
shall be added to the bill if the final notice of delinquency is mailed via
certified mail, return receipt requested.
         c.   In the event charges for services are not paid within ten (10)
days of mailing the aforementioned final notice, further notice of delinquency
shall be served to the property by physically placing notice at the subject
property. Said notice shall specify the date the water service will be
discontinued, which shall be no less than one day from the day the notice was
physically placed at the subject property. A forty dollar ($40.00) charge shall
be added to the bill if said further notice is physically placed at the subject
property.
         d.   If the charges for services, plus arrearage, plus all late
charges and related fees, are not paid in full before the discontinuation date
specified in the notice mentioned in subsection C1c of this section, the water
service may be discontinued without further notice. To reinstate water service
during office hours Monday through Friday, there shall be an additional sixty
dollar ($60.00) charge, payable in advance, for reinstating the water service
during office hours Monday through Friday. To reinstate water service during
hours other than office hours Monday through Friday, there shall be an
additional one hundred twenty dollar ($120.00) charge, payable in advance.
      2.   "Final" Account Billings: In the event the charges for services are
not paid within fifteen (15) days after being mailed, such charges shall be
deemed and are hereby declared to be delinquent, and a ten percent (10%) late
charge fee, calculated off of and based on the amount of the most recently
rendered bill, shall be added thereto. Thereafter, such delinquencies may
constitute liens upon the real estate for which such service is supplied, and
the finance director- treasurer or a designee is hereby authorized and may file
sworn statements in the office of the county recorder of deeds showing such
delinquencies, and the filing of such statements shall be deemed notice for the
payment of such charges for service. Further, the finance director-treasurer or
a designee is authorized to pursue collection of said charges in accordance
with the village written procedures then in place, up to and including
submitting any delinquent accounts to a third party collection agent for
processing and collection. If said collection agent assesses a fee for
processing or collection, the village may add up to one hundred percent (100%)
of said fee to the charge for services, plus arrearages, plus all late charges.
Said fee is due and payable in addition to all charges for services, arrearages
and late charges previously assessed and added to the account. (Ord. 2012-20,
4-23-2012)
9-1-9: REVENUES:
The village finance director-treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the
combined waterworks and sewerage system and all other funds and monies incident
to the operation of such system, as the same may be delivered to him, and
deposit the same in a separate fund designated as the "waterworks and sewerage
fund of the village", and the finance director- treasurer shall administer such
fund in every respect in the manner pursuant to the village home rule powers
and as provided in the ordinances and policies of the Village. (Ord. 2011-19,
5-23-2011)
9-1-10: ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING:
   A.   The Village Finance Director-Treasurer shall establish a proper system
of accounts and shall keep proper books, records, and accounts in which
complete and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the
combined waterworks and sewerage system, and at regular annual intervals, he
shall cause to be made an audit by an independent auditing concern of the books
to show the receipts and disbursements of the sewerage system. The adequacy of
the water and wastewater charges shall be reviewed not less often than
annually. The water and wastewater charges shall be revised periodically as
necessary to reflect changes in local capital costs or operation, maintenance
and replacement costs. In this regard, the financial information to be shown in
the annual audit report shall include the following: (Ord. 2011-19, 5-23-2011;
amd. 2012 Code)
      1.   Flow data showing total gallons received at the water reclamation
facility for the current fiscal year.
      2.   Water pumpage from all sources delivered to consumers for the
current fiscal year.
      3.   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed per fiscal year.
      4.   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year.
      5.   Number of users connected to the system.
      6.   Number of nonmetered users.
      7.   A list of users discharging nondomestic and industrial wastes and
volume of waste discharged.
   B.   The users of the wastewater treatment service will be notified
annually, in conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and that portion of
the user charges which are attributable to the wastewater operation,
maintenance and replacement. (Ord. 2011-19, 5-23-2011)
9-1-11: INSPECTION OF RECORDS:
The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency or its authorized representative
shall have access to any books, documents, papers and records of the Village
which are applicable to the Village system of user charges for the purpose of
making audit, examination, excerpts and transcriptions thereof to ensure
compliance with the terms of the special and general conditions to any State
grant. (Ord. 2011-19, 5-23-2011)
9-1-12: NOTICE OF RATES:
A copy of this chapter, properly certified by the Village Clerk, shall be filed
in the Office of the County Recorder of Deeds and shall be deemed notice to all
owners of real estate of their liability for water and sewer service supplied
to any occupant or user of the service of the combined waterworks and sewerage
system of the Village on their properties. (Ord. 2011-19, 5-23-2011)
9-1-13: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Resale Of Water: No water shall be resold or distributed by the
recipient thereof from the Village supply to any premises other than that for
which application has been made and the meter installed, except in those cases
of an emergency nature wherein the Director of Public Works, Building
Commission or one of their designees has given specific approval to do so.
   B.   Tampering With, Damage To System: It shall be unlawful for any person
to tamper with, alter, cover, uncover, bury, obstruct or injure any part or
appurtenance of the Village waterworks and sewerage system including, but not
limited to, mains, valves, b-boxes, meters, equipment and facilities, unless
specific authority to do so has been given by the Director of Public Works or
Building Commissioner. The following actions may cause shut-off of the village
water supply to any dwelling unit, building, structure, or premises in addition
to penalties provided for in section
9-1-14:
      1.   Tampering with a village water meter installation.
      2.   Installation of water supply piping creating an un-authorized by-
pass of a village water meter, not approved by the Building Commissioner or a
designee.
      3.   Removal of a village water meter.
      4.   Tampering with a village MXU device or other type of village water
meter appurtenance.
      5.   Installation of water supply piping causing a cross-connection of
the village water supply.
      6.   Any water supply piping, device, or fixture installation or
condition within a dwelling unit, building, structure, or premises that
presents potential health hazard to the village water supply as determined by
the Public Works Director or Building Commissioner or one of their designees.
      7.   Refusal to allow access onto private property to inspect and assess
village water works and sewerage systems including, but not limited to, mains,
valves, b-boxes, meters, water service piping, equipment, fixtures, and
facilities.
      8.   Delinquency in payment of outstanding water or sewer service fees or
charges.
      9.   Locating or relocating water meter in an unserviceable location.
   C.   Turning On Service Without Authority: It shall be unlawful for any
person, other than the Director of Public Works, Building Commissioner or one
of their designees, to turn on water and/or connect any dwelling unit,
building, structure, or premises to a sanitary sewer unless and until
notification from the Village Finance Director-Treasurer, Building Commissioner
or a designee has been received that the application provided in this chapter
has been received and approved and until all required fees and charges have
been paid and required security deposits have been made. (Ord. 2016-13, 3-14-
2016; amd. Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017; Ord. 2021-01, 1-11-2021)
9-1-14: CONNECTION PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation convicted of violating any provision of this
chapter pertaining to connecting to the waterworks and sewerage system shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. 2011-19, 5-23-2011; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 2
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
9-2-1: Joint Waterworks System
9-2-2: Water Conservation And Control
9-2-3: Groundwater As Potable Water Prohibited
9-2-4: Fire Hydrants
9-2-5: Private Water Wells
9-2-6: Water Use Conservation; Fixtures And Equipment
9-2-1: JOINT WATERWORKS SYSTEM:
The village hereby determines and elects to acquire and operate jointly with
the following units of local government (or such of same which shall likewise
elect):
Village of Addison
City of Aurora
Village of Bensenville
Village of Carol Stream
Village of Clarendon Hills
City of Darien
Village of Downers Grove
County of DuPage
City of Elmhurst
Village of Glen Ellyn
Village of Glendale Heights
Village of Hillsdale
Village of Itasca
Village of Lisle
Village of Lombard
City of Naperville
Village of Oak Brook
City of Oakbrook Terrace
Village of Roselle
Village of Villa Park
City of West Chicago
Village of Westmont
City of Wheaton
Village of Willowbrook
City of Wood Dale
Village of Woodridge
to acquire and operate jointly a waterworks system and a common source of
supply of water under the provisions of division 135 of article 11 of the
Illinois municipal code, as amended. The means of such joint enterprise shall
be through the DuPage water commission. (Ord. 83-5, 2-28-1983; amd. 2012 Code)
9-2-2: WATER CONSERVATION AND CONTROL:
   A.   Automatic Mechanical Watering Device Restrictions: Except as otherwise
provided herein, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
use the public water supply at any time during the months of May through
September for purposes of sprinkling or watering lawns, gardens and other
outside vegetation by means of any automatic mechanical watering device,
except:
      1.   For lots, tracts or parcels of land having odd numbered street
addresses, except for units of government, commercial, industrial,
manufacturing, or office buildings, and multi- family residential dwellings,
such use of the public water supply will be permitted only on Monday, Wednesday
and Saturday between the hours of five o'clock (5:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:
00) A.M. or five o'clock (5:00) P.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
      2.   For lots, tracts or parcels of land having even numbered street
addresses, except for units of government, commercial, industrial,
manufacturing, or office buildings and multi- family residential dwellings,
such use of the public water supply will be permitted only on Tuesday, Thursday
and Sunday between the hours of five o'clock (5:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:
00) A.M. or five o'clock (5:00) P.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
      3.   Notwithstanding subsections A1 and A2 of this section, it shall be
lawful to use the public water supply for purposes of sprinkling or watering
newly sodded or seeded lawns, gardens and other outside vegetation by means of
automatic mechanical watering devices for a period not to exceed thirty (30)
consecutive days between the hours of five o'clock (5:00) A.M. and nine o'clock
(9:00) A.M. or five o'clock (5:00) P.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M., daily,
following the issuance of a watering permit as provided in subsection D of this
section.
      4.   For units of government, commercial, industrial, manufacturing or
office buildings and multi-family residential buildings, such use of the public
water supply will be permitted only on Tuesday, Thursday and Sunday between the
hours of five o'clock (5:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or five o'clock
(5:00) P.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
   B.   Handheld Watering Device Restrictions:
      1.   The use of handheld watering devices is permitted without
restriction for the purposes of sprinkling or watering lawns, gardens and other
outside vegetation or washing cars, except:
         a.   For hoses left running while unattended or open ended hoses with
no device designed to control the flow of water at the point of discharge.
         b.   For handheld devices that do not shut off automatically when the
hose is set down for any length of time.
      2.   Usage of the public water supply in the manner described in
subsections B1a and B1b of this section shall be unlawful. (Ord. 90-30, 5-14-
1990)
   C.   Water Shortage Emergencies: Whenever, upon the advice of the Village
Administrator and the Director of Public Works, the Village President
determines that a water shortage is imminent, the Village President is hereby
authorized to further restrict and limit the utilization of the public water
supply for purposes of sprinkling and watering of lawns, gardens and other
outside vegetation, including the power to ban such utilization for periods not
to exceed thirty (30) days until such water shortage has been eliminated.
   D.   Watering Permit: Upon application duly made to the Village President
and after approval by the Building Commissioner, the Village President is
authorized to issue a watering permit for purposes of allowing sprinkling or
watering of newly sodded or seeded lawns, gardens and other outside vegetation
between the hours of five o'clock (5:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or
five o'clock (5:00) P.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M., daily, for a period not
to exceed thirty (30) days from the date of issuance. (Ord. 90-30, 5-14-1990;
amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
   E.   Penalties: Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of
this section shall be subject to a fine of not less than twenty five dollars
($25.00) nor more than fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first offense, and not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
for the second or succeeding offense. (Ord. 90-30, 5-14-1990; amd. 2012 Code)
9-2-3: GROUNDWATER AS POTABLE WATER PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the following meanings:
    GROUNDWATER: Water within the earth that supplies wells and springs.
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, limited
liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust,
estate, political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.
   POTABLE WATER: Any water used for human or domestic consumption including,
but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming, washing dishes,
or preparing foods. (Ord. 2005-45, 11-28-2005)
   B.   Prohibited:
      1.   Prohibition Near 201 East Lake Street: The use or attempt to use
groundwater as a potable water supply by the installation or drilling of wells
or by any other method is hereby prohibited from properties within the
corporate limits located within a two thousand five hundred foot (2,500')
radius area of 201 East Lake Street (the property formerly known as the "Shell
Property"), and the adjacent Circle Avenue right-of-way, generally bounded by
Sunset Terrace on the north, Glen Ellyn Road on the east, and Freeport Drive on
the south, as graphically illustrated in exhibit A attached to the ordinance
codified herein, including the use or attempts to use groundwater at points of
withdrawal by the Village.
      2.   Prohibition Near 102 East Lake Street: The use or attempt to use
groundwater as a potable water supply by the installation or drilling of wells
or by any other method is hereby prohibited from properties within the
corporate limits of the Village as listed on exhibit B attached to the
ordinance codified herein, and as graphically illustrated on exhibit C attached
to the ordinance codified herein, including the use or attempts to use
groundwater at points of withdrawal by the Village. (Ord. 2013-34, 11-25-2013)
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating the terms and conditions of this section
shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2005-45, 11-28-2005; amd. 2012 Code)
9-2-4: FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   Prohibitions:
      1.   Unauthorized Use: It shall be unlawful for any person, except
members of a Fire Department for the uses and purposes of such department, and
except such Village employees as are specifically authorized in writing by the
Director of Public Works, to open any public fire hydrant or attempt to draw
water from the same. (Ord. 72-7, 2-9-1972; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-
2017)
      2.   Damage To, Interference With: It shall be unlawful for any person to
wilfully or carelessly break, injure, or interfere with any of the public fire
hydrants in the Village.
      3.   Obstructing: It shall be unlawful for any person in any manner to
obstruct the use of any public fire hydrant, or place any material or vehicle
in front thereof, or within fifteen feet (15') thereof at any curb; said
distance to be measured from that point on the curb perpendicular to the exact
location of the public fire hydrant. (Ord. 72-7, 2-9-1972)
   B.   Penalty: Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the
provisions of this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. (Ord. 72-7, 2-9-1972; amd. 2012 Code)
9-2-5: PRIVATE WATER WELLS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the following meanings:
GROUNDWATER: Water within the earth that supplies wells and springs.
POTABLE WATER: Any water used for human or domestic consumption including, but
not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming, washing dishes, or
preparing foods.
WATER WELL: An excavation or structure created in the ground by digging,
driving, boring or drilling to access groundwater from underground aquifers.
   B.   Prohibition On The Construction Or Use Of Private Wells: The use, as a
potable water supply, of groundwater from within the corporate limits of the
Village, by the installation or drilling of water wells or by any other method
is hereby prohibited, including at points of withdrawal.
   C.   Exemption: Private wells that were established as of November 1, 2012,
are exempt from the usage prohibition contained within subsection B of this
section provided that the well is operated and maintained in compliance with
all applicable laws, codes, rules and regulations of the State of Illinois, the
DuPage County Health Department, and the Village. In the event that the private
well fails to comply with said applicable laws, codes, rules and regulations,
then the well shall be sealed and capped pursuant to this section.
   D.   Disconnection Of A Private Well: Immediately, upon the Village's
determination that any private water well has been kept or maintained in
violation of this Code, including, but not limited to, any cross connection
between the Village's water system and the property owner's private water well,
the Village shall order the disconnection of the property from the Village's
water supply system and take any and all other actions as may be necessary to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the users of the Village's water
system, including, disconnecting the property from the Village's water supply
system, in which case the cost thereof shall be charged to the property owner
and paid to the Village by the property owner. Within seven (7) days after any
such determination by the Village, the property owner shall cause the private
water well to be sealed and capped by an Illinois licensed water well
contractor pursuant to applicable rules and regulations of the DuPage County
Health Department.
   E.   Amortization: In addition to the disconnection provisions as described
in subsection D of this section, any private water well, regardless of when it
was established, shall be sealed and capped when the use of the site changes or
the structure that is being served is demolished, reconstructed and/or expanded
to the following degree:
      1.   The water well would have to be relocated due to demolition;
      2.   The water well would have to be relocated due to the reconstruction
or expansion of the structure;
      3.   Significant plumbing work would need to be completed in order to
provide for the continued adequate potable water service in a manner that
protects life, health and safety.
   F.   Reconnection Of Water Service: Reconnection to the village's water
system shall be permitted only upon certification that the well has been sealed
and capped by a licensed water well contractor in accordance with this code and
the rules and regulations of the DuPage County health department, as they exist
when the well is sealed and capped, and that there are no other violations of
this code and the rules and regulations of the DuPage County health department
with respect to the groundwater supply and/or potable water system on the
property.
   G.   Village Costs: Prior to reconnection, the property owner shall
reimburse the village for any and all reasonable costs and expenses, including
reasonable attorney fees and costs of litigation, which the village has
incurred or will incur because of a violation of this section. In addressing
any violation of this code and the rules and regulations of the DuPage County
health department, the village shall have all legal and equitable remedies
available to it, including specifically the remedies of injunction and specific
performance.
   H.   Penalty: Any person violating the terms and conditions of this section
shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2012-46, 11-26-2012)
9-2-6: WATER USE CONSERVATION; FIXTURES AND EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Plumbing Fixtures: New and replacement plumbing fixtures to be
connected to village water service shall be labeled as "WaterSense" product, as
specified by USEPA.
   B.   Air Conditioning Systems: Air conditioning systems installed in new
construction, remodeling or equipment system replacement shall be closed system
type.
   C.   Lavatories: Lavatories for public use in new construction, remodeling
or fixture replacement shall be equipped with metering or self-closing faucets.
   D.   Car Washes: Car wash equipment installations in new construction,
remodeling or equipment replacement shall be equipped with a water recycling
system.
   E.   Penalty: Any person violating the terms and conditions of this section
shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2016-13, 3-14-2016)
ARTICLE A. CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
9-2A-1: Cross Connections Restricted
9-2A-2: Surveys And Investigations
9-2A-3: Backflow Prevention Devices
9-2A-4: Inspections
9-2A-5: Violations; Disconnection Of Water Service; Reconnect Fee
9-2A-6: Responsibility For Cleanup Costs
9-2A-1: CROSS CONNECTIONS RESTRICTED:
No person, firm or corporation shall establish, or permit to be established or
permit to be, any connection whereby a private, auxiliary or emergency water
supply, other than the regular public water supply of the Village, enters the
supply or distribution system of the Village, unless such private, auxiliary or
emergency water supply, and method of connection and use of such supply, shall
have been approved by the Director of Public Works or authorized agents and the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. (Ord. 90-51, 8-27-1990; amd. 2012
Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
9-2A-2: SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Director of Public Works to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of the industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to the
public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be made a
matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two (2) years, or
as often as the Director of Public Works shall deem necessary. Records of such
surveys shall be maintained and available for a period of at least five (5)
years. (Ord. 90-51, 8-27-1990; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
9-2A-3: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
If, in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code or in the judgment of the
Director of Public Works or authorized agents, an approved backflow prevention
device is necessary for the safety of the public water supply system, the
Director of Public Works will give notice to the water customer to install such
an approved device immediately. The water customer shall, at his own expense,
install such an approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance
with the Illinois Plumbing Code and all applicable local regulations, and shall
have inspections and tests made of such approved devices as required by the
Illinois Plumbing Code and local regulations. (Ord. 90-51, 8-27-1990; amd. 2012
Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
9-2A-4: INSPECTIONS:
The approved cross connection control device inspector shall have the right to
enter, at any reasonable time, any property served by a connection to the
public water supply or distribution system of the Village for the purpose of
verifying the presence or absence of cross connections, and the Director of
Public Works or his authorized agent shall have the right to enter at any
reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water supply
or distribution system of the Village for the purpose of verifying information
submitted by the customer regarding the required cross connection control
inspection. On demand, the owner, lessee or occupants of any property so served
shall furnish to the Director of Public Works any information which he may
request regarding the piping system or systems, or water use on such property.
The refusal of such information, when demanded, shall, in the discretion of the
Director of Public Works, be deemed evidence of the presence of improper
connections as provided in this article. (Ord. 90-51, 8-27-1990; amd. 2012
Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
9-2A-5: VIOLATIONS; DISCONNECTION OF WATER SERVICE; RECONNECT FEE:
The Director of Public Works is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue,
after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service to any
property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this article
is known to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as he may deem
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water supply
distribution mains. Water service to such property shall not be restored until
such conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the
provisions of this article, and until a reconnection fee of two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) is paid to the Village. Immediate disconnection with verbal
notice can be effected when the Director of Public Works is assured that
imminent danger of harmful contamination of the public water supply system
exists. Such action shall be followed by written notification of the cause of
disconnection. (Ord. 90-51, 8-27-1990; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-
2017)
9-2A-6: RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLEANUP COSTS:
The consumer responsible for back siphoned material or contamination through
backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs through an
illegal cross connection or an improperly installed, maintained or repaired
device, or a device which has been bypassed, shall bear the costs of cleanup of
the potable water supply system. (Ord. 90-51, 8-27-1990)
   CHAPTER 3
SEWER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
9-3-1: General Provisions
9-3-1-1: Enactment
9-3-1-2: Purpose And Policy
9-3-1-3: Administration
9-3-1-4: Jurisdiction
9-3-1-5: Abbreviations
9-3-1-6: Definitions
9-3-2:   Sewer Extension Requirements
9-3-2-1: Applicability
9-3-2-2: Sewer Extension Requirements
9-3-3:   Sewer Connection Procedures
9-3-3-1: Use Of Public Sewers Required
9-3-3-2: Private Sewage Disposal
9-3-3-3: Building Sewer And Connections
9-3-3-4: Fees
9-3-3-5: Use Of Public Sewers
9-3-3-6: Monitoring Facilities
9-3-3-7: Additional Structures Required For The Use Of The Public Sewers
9-3-3-8: Food Service Establishments
9-3-3-9: Sewer Line Maintenance/Replacement
9-3-3-10: Automobile Service, Repair And Fuel Dispensing Properties
9-3-3-11: Amalgam Management At Dental Offices
9-3-4:   Information Required Of Non-Residential Users
9-3-4-1: Initial Survey (Questionnaire)
9-3-4-2: Affirmation To Initial Survey
9-3-4-3: Reports Of Changed Conditions
9-3-4-4: Additional Survey Information
9-3-5:   General Discharge Requirements
9-3-5-1: Applicability
9-3-5-2: Prohibited Discharge Standards
9-3-5-3: National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
9-3-5-4: State Limits
9-3-5-5: Local Limits
9-3-5-6: Right Of Revision
9-3-5-7: Monitoring Facilities
9-3-5-8: Monitoring Requirements
9-3-5-9: Analytical Requirements
9-3-5-10: Protection Of Village Sampling And Flow Metering Equipment From
Damage
9-3-6:   General Discharge Compliance
9-3-6-1: Applicability
9-3-6-2: Pretreatment Facilities
9-3-6-3: Additional Pretreatment Measures
9-3-6-4: Best Management Practices (BMP) Plan
9-3-6-5: Accidental Discharge And Slug Control Plan
9-3-6-6: Closure Plan
9-3-7:   Wastewater Discharge Permit Requirements And Application
9-3-7-1: Wastewater Information And Analysis
9-3-7-2: Wastewater Discharge Permit Authority And Requirements
9-3-7-3: Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permitting: Existing
Connections
9-3-7-4: Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permitting: New
Connections
9-3-7-5: Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permit Application
Contents
9-3-7-6: Individual And General Application Signatories And Certification
9-3-7-7: Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permit Decisions
9-3-7-8: Intermittent Discharges And Clean-Ups
9-3-8:   Wastewater Discharge Permit Issuance Process
9-3-8-1: Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permit Duration
9-3-8-2: Wastewater Discharge Permit Contents
9-3-8-3: Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permit Appeals
9-3-8-4: Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permit Modification
9-3-8-5: Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permit Transfer
9-3-8-6: Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permit Revocation
9-3-8-7: Individual And General Wastewater Discharge Permit Re-Issuance
9-3-8-8: Regulation Of Waste Received From Other Jurisdictions
9-3-9:   Reporting Requirements
9-3-9-1: Pretreatment Requirements For Non-Residential Users
9-3-9-2: Additional Pretreatment Requirements For Categorical Industrial Users
9-3-9-3: Periodic Compliance Reports/Self-Monitoring Reports
9-3-9-4: Reports From Non-Permitted Users
9-3-9-5: Authorized Representative Change Notification
9-3-9-6: Reports Of Changed Conditions
9-3-9-7: Reports Of Potential Problems
9-3-9-8: Notice Of Violation/Repeat Sampling And Reporting
9-3-9-9: Notification Of The Discharge Of Hazardous Waste
9-3-9-10: Report Submittal Due Dates
9-3-10:   Compliance Monitoring
9-3-10-1: Right Of Entry: Inspection And Sampling
9-3-10-2: Record Keeping
9-3-10-3: Search Warrants
 
9-3-11: Confidential Information
9-3-12:    Publication Of Users In Significant Noncompliance
9-3-13:    Administrative Enforcement Remedies
9-3-13-1: Notification Of Violation
9-3-13-2: Compliance Agreements
9-3-13-3: Show Cause Order
9-3-13-4: Compliance Orders
9-3-13-5: Cease And Desist Orders
9-3-13-6: Emergency Suspensions
9-3-13-7: Termination Of Discharge
9-3-14:    Penalties And Judicial Enforcement Remedies
9-3-14-1: Recovery Of Costs Incurred
9-3-14-2: Administrative Fines
9-3-14-3: Injunctive Relief
9-3-14-4: Civil Penalties
9-3-14-5: Remedies Nonexclusive
9-3-15:   Supplemental Enforcement Action
9-3-15-1: Failure To Report Or Notify
9-3-15-2: Cash Bonds
9-3-15-3: Liability Insurance
9-3-15-4: Payment For Outstanding Fees And Penalties
9-3-15-5: Water Supply Severance
9-3-15-6: Public Nuisances
9-3-15-7: Contractor Listing
9-3-16:   Affirmative Defenses To Discharge Violations
9-3-16-1: Upset
9-3-16-2: Prohibited Discharge Standards
9-3-16-3: Bypass
9-3-17:    Miscellaneous Fees
9-3-17-1: Pretreatment Program Funding
9-3-17-2: Pretreatment Charges And Fees
9-3-17-3: Additional Remedies
9-3-18:    Miscellaneous Provisions
9-3-18-1: Severability
9-3-18-2: Conflict
9-3-18-3: Offenses Under Previous Ordinances
9-3-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
9-3-1-1: ENACTMENT:
Pursuant to the requirements of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act and
regulations promulgated thereunder, the Illinois Environmental Protection Act
of 1970, as amended, and in accordance with Illinois Municipal Code, this
chapter, hereby known as Sewer Use and Pretreatment Ordinance, is enacted by
the Board of Trustees of the Village of Bloomingdale. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-1-2: PURPOSE AND POLICY:
This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the Publicly Owned
Treatment Works (POTW) for the Village of Bloomingdale, hereafter referred to
interchangeably as the Village. This chapter provides for the use of public and
private sewers and drains, private sewage disposal, and authorizes the
installation and continuing of connections into the POTW of the Village upon
certain conditions, including permission thereof; providing for the
installation and maintenance of such connections and enforcements thereto;
regulating the use of municipal and private sewers and drains; individual
wastewater disposal, the installation, connection and disconnection of building
sewers, the discharge of water and waste in the public sewer system providing
for penalties for violation therefore; and providing for penalties for
violation thereof; and providing for termination of permits issued by the
Village pursuant to the provisions hereof.
This chapter enables the Village to comply with all applicable State and
Federal laws, including the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 United
States Code § 1251 et seq.) and General Pretreatment Regulations of 40 CFR Part
403. Additional objectives of this chapter are:
   A.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that will
interfere with its operation;
   B.   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that will pass
through the POTW, inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or otherwise be
incompatible with the POTW;
   C.   To protect both POTW personnel who may be affected by air, wastewater
and biosolids in the course of their employment and the general public;
   D.   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and biosolids
from the POTW;
   E.   To enable the Village to comply with its National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permit conditions, biosolids use and disposal
requirements, and any other Federal or State laws to which the POTW is subject;
   F   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of
operation, maintenance, and improvement of the POTW;
   G.   To provide uniform requirements for Food Service Establishments for the
control of grease discharge to the sanitary sewer system; and
   H.   To regulate private wastewater disposal systems. This chapter shall
apply to all users of the POTW and provides for the enforcement of general
requirements for users. The chapter authorizes the issuance of wastewater
connection and discharge permits; provides for monitoring, compliance, and
enforcement activities; establishes administrative review procedures; requires
user reporting; and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable
distribution of costs resulting from the programs established herein. The
chapter authorizes the issuance of Wastewater Discharge Permits that do not
allow the discharge of defined process waste streams but continue to allow the
discharge of domestic or sanitary wastewater. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-1-3: ADMINISTRATION:
Except as otherwise provided herein, the Pretreatment Coordinator and/or Duly
Authorized Agent(s) shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of
this chapter. Any powers granted to or duties imposed upon the Pretreatment
Coordinator and/or Duly Authorized Agent(s) may be delegated by the Village or
Pretreatment Coordinator to other Village personnel or other Duly Authorized
Agent(s) of the Village.
It shall be the duty of employees of the Police, Building, Engineering, Fire,
and Street departments to give vigilant aid to the Department of Public Works
in the enforcement of this chapter and to this end they shall report all
violations thereof, which come to their knowledge, to the Department of Public
Works. (Ord. 2023- 34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-1-4: JURISDICTION:
This Section shall apply to the Village and to persons outside the Village who
are, by contract or agreement with the Village, users of the Village POTW.
Contract and agreement provision are provided in Section
9-3-8-8. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-1-5: ABBREVIATIONS:
The following abbreviations, when used in this chapter, shall have the
designated meanings:
BOD    Biochemical Oxygen Demand
BMP    Best Management Practices
BMR    Baseline Monitoring Report
CFR    Code of Federal Regulations
CIU    Categorical Industrial User
COD    Chemical Oxygen Demand
DPW    Director of Public Works
FOG    Fats, Oils and Grease, interchangeable with Oil and Grease
FSE    Food Service Establishment
GI     Grease Interceptor
gpd    Gallons per day
IAC    Illinois Administrative Code
IEPA   Illinois Environmental Protection Agency
IU     Industrial User
mg/l   Milligrams per liter
NPDES  National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
NSCIU  Non-Significant Categorical Industrial User
NSRU   Non-Significant Regulated User
POTW   Publicly Owned Treatment Works
ppm    Part per million
RCRA   Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SIU    Significant Industrial User
SNC    Significant Non-Compliance
SSO    Sewer System Overflows
SWDA   Solid Waste Disposal Act
TSS    Total Suspended Solids
TTO    Total Toxic Organics
U.S.C. United States Code
USEPA  U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
VE     Village Engineer
 
(Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-1-6: DEFINITIONS:
Unless a provision explicitly states otherwise, the following terms and
phrases, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings hereinafter
designated.
 
ACT or "THE ACT" or  The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
"CLEAN WATER ACT" or Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. § 1251 et seq.
"FEDERAL ACT":
AGENCY:              The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
AMALGAM PROCESS      Any wastewater generated and discharged by a dental
WASTEWATER:          discharger through the practice of dentistry that may
                     contain dental amalgam.
                     A collection device designed to capture and remove dental
AMALGAM SEPARATOR:   amalgam from the amalgam process wastewater of a dental
                     facility.
AMMONIA-NITROGE N    Nitrogen present in the form of ammonia determined by
(NH3-N):             standard laboratory procedures and expressed in milligrams
                     per liter.
                     The Regional Administrator of Region V of USEPA, until
APPROVAL AUTHORITY:  such time that the State of Illinois has a USEPA approved
                     pretreatment program.
 
 
                  1.   If the User is a corporation:
                     a.   By a responsible corporate officer - the president, secretary, treasurer,
               or a vice-president of the corporation in charge of a principal business function, or
               any other person who performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the
               corporation; or
                     b.   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or operation
               facilities provided the manager is authorized to make management decisions that govern
               the operation of the regulated facility including having the explicit or implicit duty
               of making major capital investment recommendations, and initiate and direct other
               comprehensive measures to assure long-term environmental compliance with environmental
               laws and regulations; can ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions
               taken to gather complete and accurate information for individual wastewater permit (or
               general permit) requirements; and where authority to sign documents has been assigned
               or delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
                  2.   If the User is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general partner or
               proprietor, respectively.
AUTHORIZED        3.   If the User is a limited liability company (LLC): any managing member of the
REPRESENTATIVE company.
OF THE USER:      4.   If the User is a Federal, State, or local governmental facility: a director or
               highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of
               the activities of the government facility, or their designee.
                  5.   The individuals described in paragraphs 1 through 4, above, may designate a
               Duly Authorized Representative, if the authorization is in writing, the authorization
               specifies the individual or position responsible for the overall operation of the
               facility from which the discharge originates or having overall responsibility for
               environmental matters for the company, and the written authorization is submitted to
               the Village of Bloomingdale.
                  6.   If an authorization under Paragraph 5 of this section is no longer accurate
               because a different individual or position has responsibility for the overall
               operation of the facility, or overall environmental matters for the company, a new
               authorization satisfying the requirements of Paragraph 5 must be submitted to the
               Village of Bloomingdale within thirty (30) calendar days. If an authorization under
               Paragraph 5 of this section is no longer accurate because the individual described in
               Paragraphs 1 through 4 above has changed, a new authorization satisfying the
               requirements of Paragraph 5 must be submitted to the Village of Bloomingdale within
               thirty (30) calendar days.
 
 
                                    Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
                                    practices, maintenance procedures, and
                                    other management practices to implement
                                    the prohibitions listed in Section
                                    9-3-5-2 [40 CFR 403.5(a)(1) and (b)] and/
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE (BMP):     or prevent or reduce the pollution
                                    conveyed to the POTW. BMPs include
                                    treatment requirements, operating
                                    procedures, and practices to control plant
                                    site runoff, spillage or leaks, biosolids
                                    or waste disposal, or drainage from raw
                                    materials storage.
                                    The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
                                    biochemical oxidation of organic matter
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD) OR  under standard laboratory procedures
(BOD5):                             approved in 40 CFR 136 for five (5) days
                                    at 20 degrees centigrade, usually
                                    expressed as a concentration (e.g., mg/1).
 
             Refers to the anaerobically digested and stabilized organic solids
BIO-SOLIDS:  removed from the POTW and disposed of on agricultural land or at a
             landfill.
             That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which receives the
             discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside the walls of
BUILDING     the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved point
DRAIN:       of discharge, beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of
             the building wall. discharge of stormwater runoff to the building drain
             is prohibited.
BUILDING     The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or other place
SEWER:       of disposal.
BYPASS:      The intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of a user's
             treatment or pretreatment facility.
CATEGORICAL  An Industrial User subject to a Categorical Pretreatment Standard or
INDUSTRIAL   Categorical Standard. A CIU is considered to be a Significant Industrial
USER (CIU):  User.
CATEGORICAL  Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by USEPA
PRETREATMENT in accordance with Sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317)
STANDARD or  which apply to a specific category of users and which appear in 40 CFR
CATEGORICAL  Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471.
STANDARD:
CHEMICAL     The quantity of oxygen utilized in the chemical oxidation of all
OXYGEN       compounds, both organic and inorganic in water, under standard laboratory
DEMAND       procedures as described in 40 CFR 136 usually expressed as a
(COD):       concentration (e.g. mg/l).
COMBINED     A sewer which is designed as a sanitary sewer and a storm sewer;
SEWER:       construction of combined sewers is prohibited.
COMBINED
WASTE STREAM The formula set forth in 40 CFR Section 403.6(e).
FORMULA:
             Places engaged in selling merchandise or rendering services, including
COMMERCIAL   transit lodging, retail and wholesale establishments. Each commercial
USER:        establishment in a commercial building having two (2) or more commercial
             establishments shall be considered a separate and individual commercial
             user.
 
                   A sample of wastewater composed of two or more discrete
COMPOSITE SAMPLE:  samples collected, based on a flow-proportional or time-
                   proportional method.
                   The POTW if it has an approved pretreatment program; in the
CONTROL AUTHORITY: absence of such a program, the NPDES State, if it has an
                   approved pretreatment program or EPA if the State does not
                   have an approved program.
                   A structure specifically designed and constructed for
CONTROL MANHOLE:   sampling and metering industrial wastes discharged to a
                   public sewer.
                   The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
COOLING WATER:     cooling or refrigeration, to which the only pollutant added
                   is heat.
COUNTY:            DuPage County, Illinois, its departments and divisions.
DAILY MAXIMUM:     The arithmetic average of all effluent samples for a
                   pollutant collected during a calendar day.
                   The maximum allowable discharge limit of a pollutant during
                   a calendar day. Where daily maximum are expressed in terms
                   of a concentration, the daily discharge is the arithmetic
DAILY MAXIMUM:     average measurement of the pollutant concentration derived
                   from all measurements taken that day. Where daily maximum
                   are expressed in units of mass, the daily discharge is the
                   total mass discharged over the course of a day.
DENTAL AMALGAM:    An alloy of elemental mercury and other metal(s) that is
                   used in the practice of dentistry.
                   A facility where the practice of dentistry is performed,
                   including, but not limited to, institutions, permanent or
DENTAL DISCHARGER: temporary offices, clinics, home offices, and facilities
                   owned and operated by Federal, state or local governments,
                   that discharges wastewater to a POTW.
 
                                   The Village official pursuant to Title 1,
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS:          Chapter 9 of this code, or his duly
                                   authorized representative(s), responsible
                                   for the enforcement of this chapter.
                                   Any person, firm, establishment or
                                   institution that discharges wastewater,
                                   excluding inflow and infiltration, into the
DISCHARGER:                        POTW from any non-domestic source regulated
                                   under Section 307(b), (c), or (d) of the Act
                                   and 35 Ill Adm. Code (IAC) 307. "Discharger"
                                   is used interchangeably with "User."
                                   An individual or general permit issued to a
                                   user which specifies the requirements for
DISCHARGE PERMIT:                  discharge of wastewater or the requirements
                                   for zero discharge of wastewater as
                                   appropriate.
                                   The President and Board of Trustees of
DULY AUTHORIZED AGENT:             Bloomingdale and designated employees and
                                   agents of the Village.
                                   A unit designed for occupancy by one family.
                                   It may be a house designed for the exclusive
DWELLING:                          use of one family or it may be a portion of
                                   a building designed and intended to be used
                                   by one family.
EASEMENT:                          An acquired legal right for the specific use
                                   of land owned by others.
EFFLUENT CRITERIA:                 Those criteria defined in any applicable
                                   "NPDES" Permit.
                                   The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or,
                                   where appropriate, the Regional Water
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY:   Management Division Director, the Regional
                                   Administrator, or other duly authorized
                                   official of said agency.
EXISTING DENTAL DISCHARGER SOURCE: A dental discharger that is not a new
                                   source.
EXISTING SOURCE:                   Any source of discharge that is not a "New
                                   Source."
 
FATS, OIL,
AND GREASE    Is used interchangeably with "Oils and Grease."
(FOG):
FECAL         Any number of organisms common to the intestinal tract of man and
COLIFORM      animals whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
BACTERIA:     pollution.
              The United States government participation in the financing of
FEDERAL       the construction of POTW as provided by Title II-Grants for
GRANT:        Construction of Treatment Works of the Act and implementing
              regulations.
              Any user engaged in the activities of manufacturing, preparing,
              serving, or otherwise making available for consumption foodstuffs
              that use one or more of the following preparation activities:
              blending, cooking by frying (all methods), baking (all methods),
              grilling, sautéing, rotisserie cooking, broiling (all methods),
FOOD SERVICE  boiling, blanching, roasting, toasting, or poaching and infrared
ESTABLISHMENT heating, searing, barbecuing, and any other food preparation or
(FSE):        servicing activity that produces a consumable food product in or
              on a receptacle requiring washing to be reused. A limited food
              preparation establishment is not considered to be a FSE when only
              engaged in reheating, hot holding or assembly of ready to eat
              food products and as a result, there is no wastewater discharge
              containing significant amounts of FOG.
              Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will separate
FLOATABLE     by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved
OIL:          pretreatment facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of
              floatable oil if it is properly pretreated and the wastewater
              does not interfere with the collection system.
FLOW:         Volume of wastewater per unit of time.
              Solid wastes from domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
GARBAGE:      and dispensing of food, and from the commercial handling,
              storage, and sale of produce or food.
              A sample which is taken from a wastestream on a one-time basis
GRAB SAMPLE:  without regard to the flow in the wastestream and over a period
              of time not to exceed fifteen (15) minutes.
 
HAULED WASTE:                     Sanitary or process wastewater transported as
                                  a commercial venture.
                                  Where areas sewer lines have experienced
HOT SPOTS:                        sanitary sewer overflows or that must be
                                  cleaned and maintained frequently to avoid
                                  blockages of the sewer system.
INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE:  The introduction of pollutants into POTW from
                                  any non-domestic source.
INDUSTRIAL USER (IU) or USER:     A source of indirect discharge from a non-
                                  residential source.
                                  A combination of liquid and water carried
                                  wastes discharged, permitted to flow or
INDUSTRIAL WASTE:                 escape from any non-residential source,
                                  including the wastewater from pretreatment
                                  facilities and polluted cooling water.
                                  The maximum concentration of a pollutant
                                  allowed to be discharged at any time,
INSTANTANEOUS LIMIT:              determined from the analysis of any discrete
                                  or composited sample collected, independent
                                  of the industrial flow rate and the duration
                                  of the sampling event.
                                  Schools, churches, penal institutions, and
INSTITUTIONAL/GOV ERNMENTAL USER: users associated with federal, state, and
                                  local governments.
                                  A discharge which, alone or in conjunction
                                  with a discharge or discharges by other
                                  sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its
                                  treatment processes or operations, or its
                                  biosolids processes, use or disposal and
                                  therefore, is a cause of a violation of any
                                  requirement of the POTW's NPDES permit
                                  (including an increase in the magnitude or
                                  duration of a violation) or of the prevention
                                  of wastewater or biosolids use or disposal by
                                  the POTW in accordance with the following
INTERFERENCE or INTERFERE:        statutory provisions and regulations or
                                  permits issued thereunder (or more stringent
                                  State or local regulations): Section 405 of
                                  the Clean Water Act, the Solid Waste Disposal
                                  Act (SWDA) (including title II, more commonly
                                  referred to as the Resource Conservation and
                                  Recovery Act (RCRA)), and including State
                                  regulations contained in any State biosolids
                                  management plan prepared pursuant to subtitle
                                  D of the SWDA the Clean Air Act, the Toxic
                                  Substance Control Act, and the Marine
                                  Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act.
 
 
                                  A dental discharger that does not place
                                  dental amalgam, and does not remove dental
                                  amalgam except in limited emergency or
                                  unplanned, unanticipated circumstances. A new
LIMITED DENTAL DISCHARGER SOURCE: limited dental discharge source means a
                                  limited dental discharger whose first
                                  discharge to a POTW occurs after July 14,
                                  2017. An existing limited dental discharge
                                  source means a limited dental discharger that
                                  is not a new source.
                                  Specific discharge limits developed and
                                  enforced by the Village upon industrial or
LOCAL LIMIT:                      commercial facilities to implement the
                                  general and specific discharge prohibitions
                                  listed in 40 CFR 403.5(a)(1) and (b).
                                  Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human
                                  blood and blood products, pathological
MEDICAL WASTES:                   wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated
                                  bedding, surgical wastes, potentially
                                  contaminated laboratory wastes, and dialysis
                                  wastes.
                                  A unit of the concentration of water or
                                  wastewater constituent used in reporting the
MILLIGRAMS PER LITER:             results of water and wastewater analysis. One
                                  milligram per liter (1 mg/l) is 0.001 g of
                                  the constituent in 1,000 ml of water.
                                  A specialized mobile self-contained van,
MOBILE UNIT:                      trailer, or equipment used in providing
                                  dentistry services at multiple locations.
                                  The sum of all "daily discharges" measured
MONTHLY AVERAGE:                  during a calendar month divided by the number
                                  of "daily discharges" measured during that
                                  month.
                                  The highest allowable average of "daily
                                  discharges" over a calendar month, calculated
MONTHLY AVERAGE LIMIT:            as a sum of all the "daily discharges"
                                  measured during a calendar month divided by
                                  the number of "daily discharges" measured
                                  during that month.
 
 
NATIONAL
CATEGORICAL
PRETREATMENT
STANDARD,    Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in accordance
CATEGORICAL  with Sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. 1317) which apply to a specific
PRETREATMENT category of users and which appear in 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471.
STANDARD, or
CATEGORICAL
STANDARD:
NATIONAL
POLLUTANT    The national program for issuing, modifying, revoking and reissuing, terminating,
DISCHARGE    monitoring and enforcing permits from point sources to waters of the United States, and
ELIMINATION  imposing and enforcing Pretreatment Requirements under section 402 of the CWA.
SYSTEM or
NPDES:
NATIONAL
POLLUTANT
DISCHARGE
ELIMINATION  A permit issued pursuant to Section 402 of the CWA. The Village operates its POTW under
SYSTEM       NPDES Permit No. IL0021130.
PERMIT
(NPDES
PERMIT):
NATURAL      Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or ground
OUTLET:      water.
NEW DENTAL
DISCHARGER   A dental discharger whose first discharge to a POTW occurs after July 14, 2017.
SOURCE:
                1.   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there is (or may
             be) a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced after the
             publication of proposed pretreatment standards under Section 307 (c) of the Act which
             will be applicable to such source if such standards are thereafter promulgated in
             accordance with that section, provided that one of the following is true:
                   a.   The building, structure, facility, or installation is constructed at a site
             on which no other source is located;       b.   The building, structure, facility, or
             installation totally replaces the process or production equipment that causes the
             discharge of pollutants at an existing source; or
                   c.   The production or wastewater generating processes of the building,
             structure, facility, or installations are substantially independent of an existing
             source at the same site. In determining whether these are substantially independent,
             factors such as the extent to which the new facility is integrated with the existing
             plant, and the extent to which the new facility is engaged in the same general type of
             activity as the existing source, should be considered.
                2.   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located results in a
             modification rather than a new source is the construction does not create a new
             building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the criteria of Section 1.b. or
NEW SOURCE:  c. above but otherwise alters, replaces, or adds to existing process or production
             equipment.
                3.   Construction of a new source as defined under this paragraph has commenced if
             the owner or operator has done one of the following:
                   a.   Begun, or caused one of the following to begin as part of a continuous
             onsite construction program:
                   (1)   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or equipment; or
                   (2)   Significant site preparation work including, clearing, excavation, or
             removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which is necessary for the
             placement, assembly, or installation of new source facilities or equipment; or
                   b.   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase of facilities
             or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation within a reasonable time.
             Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or modified without
             substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering, and design studies do not
             constitute a contractual obligation under this paragraph.
                4.   New sources shall install and have in operating condition and shall "start-up"
             all pollution control equipment required to meet applicable pretreatment standards
             before beginning to discharge. Within the shortest feasible time (not to exceed 90
             calendar days), New Sources shall meet all applicable standards.
 
 
                                Water used for cooling which does not come into
NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER:      direct contact with any raw material,
                                intermediate product, waste product, or
                                finished product.
NON-RESIDENTIAL USER:           All users not defined "Residential Users".
                                A Non-Residential User that meets the criteria
NON-SIGNIFICANT REGULATED USER: outlined in Section
                                9-3-7-2.C.5.
                                Any hydrocarbons, fatty acids, soaps, fats,
OILS AND GREASE:                waxes, oils and any other material that is
                                extracted by a solvent in a method approved in
                                40 CFR 136.
                                A sewer that does not discharge to a public or
                                private sewer main through the use of gravity.
                                Overhead sewers utilize a pump to lift the
OVERHEAD SEWER:                 sewage to an elevation where gravity can then
                                carry away the wastewater. Non-Residential
                                wastes discharged from overhead sewers are
                                subject to all the same limits and requirements
                                of sanitary sewers.
                                A discharge that exits the POTW into waters of
                                the United States in quantities or
                                concentrations, which alone or in conjunction
PASS THROUGH:                   with discharge or discharges from other
                                sources, is a cause of a violation of any
                                requirement of the POTW's NPDES permit,
                                including an increase in the magnitude or
                                duration of a violation.
 
 
                       Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm,
                       company, corporation, association, joint stock company,
PERSON:                trust, estate, governmental entity, or any other legal
                       entity; or their legal representatives, agents, or
                       assigns. This definition includes all Federal, State,
                       and local governmental entities.
pH:                    A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a solution
                       expressed in standard units.
                       Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue,
                       filter backwash, sewage, garbage, wastewater biosolids,
                       munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological
                       materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or
POLLUTANT:             discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt or
                       industrial, municipal, and agricultural wastes and
                       certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH,
                       temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity,
                       or odor).
                       A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
                       other waste on a POTW or stream. One population
                       equivalent is 100 gallons (380 liters) of sewage per
POPULATION EQUIVALENT: day, containing 0.17 pounds (77 g) of BOD5 (five-day
                       Biochemical Oxygen Demand) and 0.20 pounds (91 g) of
                       Total Suspended Solids. The impact on a POTW is
                       evaluated or defined as the highest population
                       equivalent of the three (3) parameters. (IEPA 301.345)
                       Any discharge which alone or in combination with
                       discharges from other sources inhibits or disrupts the
                       POTW or any of its processes or operations including
POTENTIAL PROBLEM:     plant emissions or any conditions which create public
                       nuisance, causing the POTW to expend additional
                       resources or manpower or take additional steps to
                       protect the POTW processes or receiving stream "ppm"
                       means parts per million.
 
 
                                     The reduction of the amount of pollutants,
                                     the elimination of pollutants, or the
                                     alteration of the nature of pollutant
                                     properties in wastewater prior to, or in
                                     lieu of, discharging or otherwise
                                     introducing such pollutants into the POTW.
PRETREATMENT:                        This reduction or alteration can be
                                     obtained by physical, chemical, or
                                     biological processes; by process changes;
                                     or by other means, except by diluting the
                                     concentrations of the pollutants unless
                                     allowed by an applicable pretreatment
                                     standard.
PRETREATMENT COORDINATOR:            The Director of Public Works of the
                                     Village of Bloomingdale or his designee.
                                     Any substantive or procedural requirement
PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS:           related to pretreatment imposed on a user,
                                     other than a pretreatment standard.
                                     Means that for any specified pollutant,
                                     Village prohibitive discharge standards as
                                     set forth in Section
                                     9-3-5-2, Village specific limitations on
PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or STANDARDS: discharge as set forth in Section
                                     9-3-5-5, State of Illinois Pretreatment
                                     Standards in Ill. Adm. Code Section 307,
                                     or the National Categorical Pretreatment
                                     Standards.
                                     Absolute prohibitions against the
PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or    discharge of certain substances; these
PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:               prohibitions appear in Section
                                     9-3-5-2.
                                     The wastes from the preparation, cooking
                                     and dispensing of food that have been
                                     shredded to such a degree that all
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE:           particles will be carried freely under the
                                     flow conditions normally prevailing in
                                     public sewers, with no particle greater
                                     than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in
                                     any dimension.
                                     A sewer provided by or subject to the
                                     jurisdiction of the Village. It shall also
                                     include sewers within or outside the
PUBLIC SEWER:                        Village limits that serve one or more
                                     persons and, ultimately discharge into the
                                     Village sanitary sewer even though those
                                     sewers may not have been constructed with
                                     Village funds.
 
                                        A "Treatment Works", as defined by
                                        Section 212 of the Act, (33 U.S.C.
                                        section 1292) which is owned by the
                                        Village. This definition includes any
                                        devices and systems used in the
                                        collection, conveyance, storage,
                                        treatment, recycling, and reclamation
                                        of sewage or industrial wastes, of a
PUBLICLY-OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW):  liquid nature that are connected to the
                                        Village POTW regardless of ownership,
                                        but does not include sewers, pipes, and
                                        other conveyances not connected to the
                                        Village POTW Treatment Plant.
                                        Synonymous with POTW Treatment Plant,
                                        Wastewater Treatment Works, Water
                                        Pollution Control Facility, and
                                        Wastewater Facilities.
                                        All dwelling units such as houses,
                                        mobile homes, apartments and permanent
                                        multi-family dwellings. Each dwelling
RESIDENTIAL SOURCE or RESIDENTIAL USER: unit of a residential building having
                                        two (2) or more dwelling units shall be
                                        considered a separate and individual
                                        single-family residential user.
                                        A pipe or conduit designed and/or
                                        intended to carry wastewater from
                                        residences, commercial buildings,
SANITARY SEWER:                         industrial plants and institutions, and
                                        to which stormwater, surface water,
                                        ground water and unpolluted non-contact
                                        cooling water are not intentionally
                                        admitted.
SANITARY WASTEWATER:                    See "Wastewater."
                                        Any sewage from holding tanks such as
SEPTIC TANK WASTE:                      vessels, chemical toilets, campers,
                                        trailers, and septic tanks.
                                        Human excrement and gray water
SEWAGE:                                 (household showers, dishwashing
                                        operations, etc.).
                                        The system of sewers and appurtenances
SEWERAGE:                               for the collection, transportation and
                                        pumping of sewage and industrial
                                        wastes.
SHALL/MAY:                              "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is
                                        permissive.
 
 
            A user of the POTW (except as provided by paragraphs (3) and (4) who:
               1.   A User subject to any National Categorical Pretreatment Standards; or
               2.   A User that:
                  a.   Has an average process wastewater discharge flow of twenty-five thousand
            (25,000) gallons or more per work day (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and
            boiler blow-down wastewater);
                  b.   Has a discharge flow of process wastewater that makes up five percent (5%)
            or more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW; or
                  c.   Is designated as such by the Village on the basis that it has a reasonable
            potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation or for violating any
            Pretreatment Standard or Requirement.
               3.   The Village may determine that a user subject to Categorical Pretreatment
            Standards is a Non-Significant Categorical Industrial User rather than a Significant
SIGNIFICANT Industrial User on a finding that the user never discharges more than 100 gallons per
INDUSTRIAL  day (gpd) of total categorical wastewater (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and
USER:       boiler blowdown wastewater, unless specifically included in the pretreatment standard)
            and the following conditions are met:
                  a.   The User, prior to the Village's finding, has consistently complied with all
            applicable Categorical Pretreatment Standards and Requirements;
                  b.   The User annually submits the certification statement required in Section 9-
            3-9-3.C [see 40 CFR 403.12(q)], together with any additional information necessary to
            support the certification statement; and
                  c.   The User never discharges any untreated concentrated wastewater.
               4.   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in Subsection (2) of this part
            has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation or for
            violating any Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, the Village may at any time, on its
            own initiative or in response to a petition received from a user, determine that such
            user should not be considered a Significant Industrial User in accordance with 40 CFR
            403.8(f)(6).
 
 
SLUDGE:            See "Bio-solids".
                   Any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, including
                   but not limited to an accidental spill or a non-customary
                   batch discharge or any discharge of a flow rate or
                   concentration, which has a reasonable potential to cause
SLUG or SLUG LOAD: interference or pass through, or in any other way violate
                   the POTW's regulations, local limits or permit conditions or
                   a non-customary batch discharge that could cause a violation
                   of the Prohibited Discharge Standards in Section
                   9-3-5-2.
STATE ACT:         The Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970.
                   The state of Illinois participation in the financing of the
STATE GRANT:       construction of POTW as provided by the Illinois Anti-
                   Pollution Bond Act and for making such grants as filed with
                   the Secretary of the State of Illinois.
                   A sewer that carries rain water, snow melt and surface
STORM SEWER:       drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other
                   than unpolluted cooling water.
                   Means that portion of precipitation which is not absorbed
STORMWATER RUNOFF: into the ground and which is drained from the ground surface
                   to a natural outlet or watercourse.
 
 
                              Any electrical and/or mechanical device designed
                              to raise water from a lower level to a higher
SUMP PUMP:                    level and is designed to remove collected storm
                              water from a pit to a storm sewer or other
                              approved point of discharge.
T:                            As in Cyanide-T means total.
                              Total suspended matter, expressed in milligrams
                              per liter, that either floats on the surface of,
TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS): or is in suspension in water, wastewater or other
                              liquids and is removable by laboratory
                              filtration, under standard laboratory procedures
                              approved in 40 CFR 136.
                              The summation of all quantifiable values greater
                              than 0.01 milligrams per liter for the toxic
TOTAL TOXIC ORGANICS:         organic chemicals commonly called USEPA priority
                              pollutants listed under section 307 of the clean
                              water act, as amended.
                              Water quality equal to or better than the
                              effluent criteria in effect or water that would
UNPOLLUTED WATER:             not cause violation of receiving water quality
                              standards and would not be benefited by discharge
                              to the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment
                              facilities provided.
                              An exceptional incident in which there is
                              unintentional and temporary noncompliance with
                              pretreatment standards because of factors beyond
                              the reasonable control of the Industrial User. An
UPSET:                        upset does not include noncompliance to the
                              extent caused by operational error, improperly
                              designed treatment facilities, inadequate
                              treatment facilities, lack of preventive
                              maintenance, or careless or improper operation.
                              Any person or source that contributes, causes or
                              permits the source of indirect discharge into the
                              POTW. It may also include such persons or sources
                              that are prohibited from discharging specific
USER:                         pollutants or waste streams to the POTW. Village:
                              The Village of Bloomingdale and any reference to
                              "within the Village" shall mean all territory
                              within the perimeter of the Village of
                              Bloomingdale limits or wastewater service area.
 
 
             The combination of the liquid and water carried wastes from residential dwellings,
             commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing facilities, and institutions,
             whether treated or untreated, which are contributed to the POTW.
WASTEWATER:     1.   Sanitary wastewater means the combination of liquid and water carried
             wastes discharged from toilets and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
                2.   Industrial wastewater means a combination of liquid and water carried
             wastes discharged from any Industrial User, including the wastewater from
             pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water.
WASTEWATER   The document or documents issued to a user by the Village pursuant to Section
DISCHARGE    9-3-8 of this chapter.
PERMIT:
             Any stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or artificial depression, slough, gulch,
WATERCOURSE: ditch, reservoir, lake, pond, or other natural or manmade drainageway in or into
             which stormwater runoff and surface water drainage flow either continuously or
             intermittently.
WATER        Those Standards defined in the Water Pollution Regulations of Illinois, Title 35,
QUALITY      Subtitle C, Chapter I.
STANDARDS:
             All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, water courses, waterways, wells, springs,
WATERS OF    reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage systems and all other bodies or
THE STATE OF accumulations of water, surface or underground, natural or artificial, public or
ILLINOIS:    private, which are contained within, flow through, or border upon the State of
             Illinois or any portion thereof.
WORK DAY:    A day on which work or service is performed by an industry. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-
             2023)
 
9-3-2: SEWER EXTENSION REQUIREMENTS:
9-3-2-1: APPLICABILITY:
The extension of a sanitary sewer by any entity that will serve or in the
future may serve more than one building and that will connect either directly
or indirectly to the POTW of the Village shall be made only after an
application for a Village permit has been made in writing on forms prescribed
and furnished by the Village and an extension permit is issued by the Village.
(Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-2-2: SEWER EXTENSION REQUIREMENTS:
Sanitary sewer extensions shall be made in compliance with the Engineering
Department Subdivision Regulations and Construction and Design Standards as
updated periodically. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-3: SEWER CONNECTION PROCEDURES:
9-3-3-1: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or allow to be
deposited any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste
in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the Village or in
any area under the jurisdiction of the Village.
   B.   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet or watercourse
within the Village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said Village any
sewage or other polluted waters without the expressed approval from the
Director of Public Works (DPW) that all state and federal effluent limitations
have been met and there are no reasonable alternative methods of disposal.
   C.   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   D.   The owner of any house, building, or property used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purpose situated within the Village and
abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or
may in the future be located any public sanitary sewer of the Village, is
hereby required at his expense to install suitable facilities therein;
including toilets, urinals, lavatory sinks and kitchen sinks; and to connect
such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, within ninety (90) calendar days upon installation
or extension of such public sanitary sewer and after date of official notice to
connect, provided that said public sewer is within 100 feet of the property
line. All public sewer extensions shall be made in accordance with Section
9-3-2-2.
      1.   Application for a permit to make a connection to the public sanitary
sewer shall be made by the owner within ninety (90) calendar days of the
adoption of and publication of the ordinance, or upon installation or extension
of such public sanitary sewer and after date of official notice to connect, as
the case may be as provided by Section
9-3-3-3.
      2.   Failure to install such facilities and to connect same to the public
sanitary sewer within ninety (90) calendar days after the adoption of and
publication of the ordinance, or upon installation or extension of such public
sanitary sewer and after date of official notice to connect, shall be deemed,
held and construed as a violation of this provision, punishable as provided in
Sections
9-3-14 and
9-3-15.
      3.   In the event of failure upon the part of the owner to make the
described connection within ninety (90) calendar days of the adoption of and
publication of the ordinance, or upon installation or extension of such public
sanitary sewer and after date of official notice to connect, if it shall appear
that such delay is not willful upon the part of the owner, an official notice
in writing by the Village shall be given to the owner to make such connection,
server personally or by certified mail. If the owner fails, neglects and
refuses to make the connection within thirty days of the date of this notice,
he shall be held and deemed to be in violation of this provision, and
punishable as provided in Sections
9-3-14 and
9-3-15.
   E.   No user(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, stormwater sump
pumps, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface
run-off or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain that is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   F.   Damages. The Village and specifically, the Department of Public Works
shall not be held responsible for damages to personal property caused by the
construction or repair to the Village sewers, by water and sewage seepage, or
for any other reason. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-3-2: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
All private sewage disposal systems are permitted and regulated by the DuPage
County Health Department. No person shall construct a wastewater treatment
facility within the corporate limits of the Village or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the Village for the purpose of treating wastewater and
discharging same to a watercourse or subsurface drainage system unless the
following provisions are met.
   A.   For the purpose of treating non-residential source wastes, the Village
determines that the wastewater treatment facilities have inadequate capacity,
and issues a permit for the construction and operation of a wastewater
treatment facility. No Village permit shall become effective until:
      1.   The Village has approved the plans and specifications in writing,
      2.   Approval has been obtained from the DuPage County Department of
Health, as appropriate,
      3.   An IEPA permit issued to construct the facility has been received,
      4.   An IEPA NPDES permit to operate the facility has been issued and
received,
      5.   The installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Village,
and
      6.   The final inspection has been completed.
   Persons operating a wastewater treatment facility shall file copies of all
operating reports sent to the USEPA and IEPA with the Village and such other
reports as the Village deems necessary.
   B.   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
Section
9-3-3-1 and the wastewater source to be treated is domestic in nature, the
building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system employing
subsurface absorption facilities.
   No person shall construct a private wastewater treatment facility with
subsurface disposal without previous approval from the DuPage County Health
Department. If approval is given the person must adhere to the following
limitations.
      1.   Permit Requirements
         a.   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the DuPage
County Health Department. The application for such permit shall be made on a
form furnished by the County which the applicant shall supplement with any
plans, specifications and other information as deemed necessary by the County.
Copies of the DuPage County Health Department permits shall be presented to the
Village Building & Zoning Division prior to issuance of building permits.
         b.   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all regulations and provisions of the State
of Illinois Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act and Code, with the State of
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency and the DuPage County Health
Department, latest revision. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to
discharge to any natural outlet.
         c.   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the DuPage
County Health Department. The Village and County shall be allowed to inspect
the work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the
permit shall notify the DuPage County Health Department when the work is ready
for final inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. A
certificate of final approval from the DuPage County Health Department shall be
required prior to issuance of occupancy permits by the Village.
   C.   Where development is possible but gravity sewers and conventional sewer
systems are not practical.
   Accordingly, it is the policy of the Village to approve grinder pump systems
on a discretionary case-by-case basis. In order to implement a grinder pump
system, a developer or individual homeowner must prove to the Village that a
grinder pump system is the only viable option other than a conventional
sanitary sewer system. A permit and inspection fee as published in Section
10-1-2 shall be paid to the Village at the time the application is filed. A
permit for a private wastewater treatment facility employing a grinder pump
system shall not be issued until the design and installation is completed to
the satisfaction of the Village.
      1.   Installation: The Village shall be allowed to inspect the work at
any stage of the construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit
shall notify the Building Commissioner when the grinder pump system is ready
for final inspection, and before any underground portions are covered.
      2.   Operation and Maintenance: The Building Commissioner or his designee
shall be entitled to inspect the grinder pump system if said Building
Commissioner has any reason to believe that the grinder pump system is not
operating properly or pursuant to a routine inspection protocol developed by
the Building Commissioner. Should the grinder pump system fall into disrepair
or otherwise need maintenance as determined by the Village, and the owner
refuses to repair, replace or otherwise fix the grinder pump system to the
specifications of the Village, the Village may do so at its own expense and
obtain reimbursement from the individual owner. In that regard, and as a
condition of obtaining a Village permit for a grinder pump system, the
individual owner shall enter into a contractual agreement indemnifying the
Village for any costs the Village may incur with regards to maintaining the
grinder pump system, and further allow the Village reasonable access to the
grinder pump system for inspection purposes.
   D.   Other provisions.
      1.   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, and at no expense to the Village.
      2.   As provided in Section
9-3-3-2.B, at such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
served by a private sewage disposal system, a direct connection shall be made
to the public sewer within 90 calendar days in compliance with this chapter.
Any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal facilities
shall be cleaned of biosolids and filled with suitable material such as clean
bank-run gravel or dirt.
      3.   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the DuPage
County Department of Health as appropriate. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-3-3: BUILDING SEWER AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit Requirements: No person shall construct a new wastewater source
and connect same to the POTW of the Village without first making application
for the privilege of making said connection to the Village.
      1.   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, or
opening into; use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Building & Zoning Department,
with sign-off by the DPW and receipt of an IEPA permit when required under 35
IAC 309.
      2.   No addition to or alteration of any building sewer shall be made or
caused to be made by any person without a permit from the Building Commissioner
and then only through a sewer contractor. No permit shall authorize anything
not explicitly stated in the application.
      3.   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which, in turn, is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. Any violation of this
Section after ordinance adoption shall subject the violator to fines as
designated per Section
9-3-14-4. Each successive day (24 hour period) shall be considered a separate
violation.
      4.   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful except
those discharges in compliance with federal Standards promulgated pursuant to
the Federal Act, the Illinois Environmental Protection Act and regulations
promulgated thereto, and the Village Municipal Code.
      5.   There shall be three (3) classes of building sewer permits:
         a.   Residential service;
         b.   Commercial service; and
         c.   Service to establishments producing industrial waste.
   In any case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a special form
furnished by the Village. The permit application shall be supplemented by any
plans, specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the
judgment of the DPW/VE.
      6.   A permit and inspection fee per Section
10-1-2 for a residential and commercial building sewer connection permit shall
be paid to the Village at the time the application is filed, in addition to
connection and tap-on fees or recapture fees, as applicable. The industry, as a
condition of permit authorization, must provide information describing its
wastewater constituents, characteristics, and type of activity.
      7.   Persons desiring to construct a new waste source and connect it to
the POTW of the Village shall state the quantity, quality and rate of discharge
into the sewer. The non-residential user, as a condition of permit
authorization, must provide information describing its wastewater constituents,
characteristics and type of activity per Section
9-3-4-1. In the case of any fraudulent representation upon the part of the
user, the permit fees will be forfeited and the use of the sewer stopped.
      8.   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection
shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
facilities, including sewers, pump stations and POTW, have sufficient reserve
capacity to adequately and efficiently handle the additional anticipated waste
load based on the population equivalent.
      9.   The applicant will secure a building permit if the waste source is
new equipment to be installed in an existing building with an existing sewer.
      10.   Any person who makes any excavation or does any work without first
securing the permit required by this subsection, upon conviction thereof, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and, in addition to any other penalty imposed by
this Section, shall be liable for the penalties set forth in Village Code.
   B.   Building Sewer Connections
      1.   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for
every building, except that where one building stands at the rear of another on
an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer and may be done only with the explicit
approval of the Building Commissioner. In no case shall any owner be permitted
to maintain, without the consent of the Building Commissioner, any connection
of a building drain to a building sewer located across or under the property of
another.
      2.   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings
only when they are found, on examination and test by the Village or his
designee, to meet all requirements of this chapter. All costs for this
examination shall be borne by the applicant.
      3.   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building
drain shall be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the
building sewer. No water driven pumps will be approved. Where possible, all
building sanitary services shall be "overhead" installations. Buildings having
basements will have an overhead sewer system including pump or ejector provided
to pump the wastewater to the sanitary sewer service for gravity transport to
the sewer main.
      4.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
at an existing stub and conform to the requirements of the building and
plumbing code, or other applicable rules and regulations of the Village, or the
procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the American Society of
Testing Materials, Water Pollution Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9,
and Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois.
All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight.
If the public sewer is twelve inches (12") in diameter or less, and no stub is
available, then a wye or tee shall be installed on the public sanitary sewer by
the user, at his expense, subject to inspection and approval by the Village.
Where the public sewer is greater than twelve inches (12") in diameter, and no
stub is available, a bored hole may be tapped into the public sewer to receive
the building sewer in such a manner that the invert of the building sewer at
the point of connection, with the spigot end being cut so as not to extend past
the inner surface of the public sewer. The invert of the building sewer at the
point of connection shall be at the same or a higher elevation than the invert
of the public sewer. A smooth, neat joint shall be made, and the connection
made secure using a watertight fitting designed for such purpose as approved by
the Village.
   C.   Construction Requirements: Construction may not be started until fees
are paid consistent with Section
9-3-3-4 and a written permit is issued by the Village after issuance and
receipt of an IEPA permit for the project when applicable. The following
conditions are also required:
      1.   Street openings shall not be permitted without written authorization
of the VE.
      2.   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the Village. Prior to
any excavation, the plumber or sewer contractor shall notify all public and
private utility companies.
      3.   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Building Department 24 hours prior to the start of any underground piping
installation and when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of a
qualified Duly Authorized Agent of the Village during regular Village working
hours.
      4.   Minimum building sanitary service sewer size shall be six-inch (6")
diameter. All cleanouts shall be installed on the owner's property and not in
Village right-of-way. It is the property Owner's responsibility to maintain the
cleanout and cap in a manner to prevent overflows.
      5.   Sewer services should not be connected to manholes. All sanitary
sewer services serving single-family residences should have individual "blind"
connections to the sewer main (as stated in Section
9-3-3-3.B.8). Only exceptions are when homes are located in a cul-de-sac and
the connection to the sewer main would be impractical. This exception must be
approved by the VE.
      6.   The person installing the building sewer for said owner shall be a
licensed plumber or licensed sewer contractor, and he shall indemnify the
Village from any loss or damage that may be directly or indirectly be
occasioned by said installation.
   D.   Sanitary Sewer Uses Outside of the Corporate Limits of the Village: No
new permit shall be issued for the tapping into or use of sanitary sewer
facility under the jurisdiction of the Village for any location outside of the
corporate limits or the wastewater service area of the Village. (Ord. 2023-34,
7-24-2023)
9-3-3-4: FEES:
The following types of fees shall be charged for when permitting and
constructing a new wastewater source and connecting it the POTW of the Village.
All review, inspection and connection fees shall be based upon current fees
identified in Section
10-1-2 and shall be reviewed and updated annually.
   A.   Connection fees involving extra strength wastewater:
      1.   PE Determination:
         a.   The DPW may require Non-Residential commercial and industrial
sewer users to report to the DPW concentrations and flow rates of wastewater
discharged to the Village collection system. Flow rate averages will be
calculated based on the number of actual days discharged. For wastewater the
strength of which exceeds normal residential wastewater as defined in Section
9-3-1-6 in any constituent the fees shall be based as follows.
            (1)   In the event that the wastewater exhibits a ratio of COD to
BOD5 that is greater than 3.0, the BOD5 PE will be calculated on the basis of
0.33 of the COD value.
            (2)   Additional charges may be charged on the basis of the impact
on the POTW as the equivalent of the highest PE of the three parameters: Flow,
BOD5 or TSS. Upon payment, any increase in PE will be added to the baseline PE
of the property.
         b.   When the volume and strength of the wastewater to be discharged
to the public sanitary sewers is not known at the time of the connection, the
fee shall be estimated and adjusted to reflect actual conditions during the
billing period after a full year of operation of all equipment.
         c.   The volume and strength of the wastewater for fee purposes shall
be based on the maximum actual daily discharge of constituents.
         d.   When a connection is made based on the applicant's statement that
the strength of the wastewater does not exceed normal domestic wastewater in
any constituent, and normally at the end of the billing period after a full
year of operation of all equipment, it is determined that the wastewater does
exceed domestic wastewater in strength, the DPW and Building Commissioner may
accept or reject the wastes and back-charge the applicant for fees plus
applicable penalties for the extra strength waste or have the service
disconnected and the premises closed.
         e.   The DPW may review Non-Residential Users flow and loadings on an
intermittent frequency, normally every two years, to identify increases to the
baseline PE. The DPW and Building Commissioner may bill the Non-Residential
User, for increases to the baseline, a connection fee as defined in Section
10-1-2. On payment of the fee, the property baseline shall be adjusted to the
newly established PE.
   B.   Properties Outside Corporate Limits. The connection fee calculated
using the strength determination for any user not located within the corporate
limits of the Village shall be two (2) times the applicable connection fee
listed in Section
10-1-2. On payment of the fee, the property baseline shall be adjusted to the
newly established PE. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-3-5: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to discharge or cause to be discharged to any
facility served by the Village, without having first complied with the terms of
this chapter. At minimum, all users are subject to the Prohibited Discharge
Standards in Section
9-3-5-2, Change Notification in Section
9-3-9-6 and Hazardous Waste Notification in Section
9-3-9-9 if applicable. Spill/Slug Control Planning may also be necessary for
some Non-Residential Users as identified in Section
9-3-6-5.
   B.   No user(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-3-6: MONITORING FACILITIES:
   A.   An inspection fee as provided in Section
10-1-2 shall be paid to the Village prior to issuance of the permit should it
be determined that the user is required to install any of the following
structures:
      1.   Sampling Manhole Requirements. All users located in areas zoned
industrial and/or business park and such other users as required by the DPW/VE,
except Residential Users, are required to install a monitoring manhole for each
separate discharge in the building sewer in accordance with the plans and
specifications approved by the Building Commissioner. Each manhole shall be
situated on the user's premises in an easement dedicated to the Village.
   The sampling manhole shall be located on the sewer connection pipe at a
point where there are no changes in grade or alignment for at least fifteen
(15) pipe diameters upstream and downstream from the manhole. The grade (slope)
of the pipe shall not exceed one percent (1%) (one foot (1') per one hundred
feet (100')) through the manhole and for a distance of fifteen (15) pipe
diameters upstream and downstream from the manhole. If this criteria cannot be
met, the Village will review and determine an acceptable location for the
sampling manhole.
   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole to allow accurate
sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The manhole shall be
installed and maintained by the Owner/User at his sole expense so as to be safe
and accessible to the Village at all times. The failure of a user to keep its
monitoring facility in good working order shall not be grounds for the user to
claim that sample results are unrepresentative of its discharge.
         a.   Where such a manhole location would be impractical or cause
extreme hardship on the user, the DPW/VE may concur with the manhole being
constructed in the public street or sidewalk area providing that the manhole is
located so that it shall not be obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles.
In those cases where a sampling manhole must be in a parking lot, a permanent
barricade, such as a vertical pipe shall be placed around the manhole to
prevent vehicles from driving or parking over the manhole cover.
         b.   The DPW/VE and Building Commissioner may postpone the
6installation of the sampling manhole when specific circumstances prevent the
installation of a manhole.
         c.   A postponement for a sampling manhole will be handled on a case-
by-case basis by the DPW/VE and Building Commissioner when it is determined
that the discharge is solely from a residential source and the site is not in a
zoned business park/industrial area.
         d.   When a postponement for a sampling manhole installation is
granted by the Village, an affidavit will be signed by the property owner to
install the manhole at a later date should business practices change at the
location where the manhole installation was postponed.
         e.   The DPW/VE may determine sub-classes of business that need not
install monitoring manholes and will advise the Building Commissioner of such
sub-classes. Monitoring manholes will always be required in zoned business or
industrial parks.
      2.   Liquid Quantity Measurements. All Significant Industrial Users may
be required to install an open channel flow measuring device in said sampling
manhole. When required, the sampling chamber shall contain a Palmer-Bowlus or
Parshall flume or equivalent, unless a weir or similar device is approved by
the Village.
   The Village may, at its option, based on the water usage and/or waste
loadings, require the user to install a device with a recording and totalizing
register for measurement of the liquid quantity. The device shall include a
circular chart recorder, suitable to record seven (7) calendar days of flow.
The equipment required to indicate, record and totalize the flow shall be
located in a warm dry location and be accessible to the Village for reading.
This equipment shall be installed and maintained by the user at his sole
expense. Should the requirement be made, the user shall complete installation
of the flume and secondary flow measuring device based on the installation
schedule approved for such device by the Village.
   The user shall be required to calibrate and maintain the flow metering
equipment in accordance with the manufacturer's recommended procedures and
frequencies. Users who operate flow measuring devices will submit the procedure
for operation and maintenance (O & M) to the Village. The user shall further
document O & M in a log which shall be available for inspection by Village
personnel. At minimum, the user shall submit a semi-annual calibration report
performed by an outside representative by the deadline defined in the user's
discharge permit. The user may be required to submit flow records to the
Pretreatment Coordinator monthly.
      3.   Sampling Equipment. The Village may, at its option, based on water
usage and/or waste loadings or when the waste loads cannot be accurately
evaluated by time composite samples, require the user to install sampling
equipment. This equipment shall be installed and maintained by the user at his
sole expense.
   Users shall submit the procedure for operation and maintenance to the
Village. The user shall further document O & M in a log which shall be
available for inspection by Village personnel. At minimum, the user shall
submit an annual report confirming the accurate operation of the equipment
performed by an outside representative by the deadline defined in the discharge
permit. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-3-7: ADDITIONAL STRUCTURES REQUIRED FOR THE USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS:
   A.   An inspection fee as provided by Section
9-3-3-4 and found in Section
10-1-2 shall be paid to the Village prior to issuance of the permit should it
be determined that the user is required to install any of the following
structures:
      1.   Garbage Grinders. Garbage is required to be properly shredded in
order to be approved to be discharged to the public sewer. Wastes classified as
properly shredded garbage contain all particles being carried freely under the
flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater
than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any dimension. The installation and
operation of any garbage grinder equipped, with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to review and approval
of the Village. The discharge of grinders is prohibited to be connected to a
grease interceptor.
      2.   Grease, Oil, and Sand Interceptors. Interceptors shall be provided
in services connected to the Village where it is determined that they are
necessary for the proper handling of the wastewater containing excessive
amounts of grease, oil, and sand except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interception units
shall be of type and capacity approved by the Village and shall be so located
to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Oil and sand interceptors
used for petroleum grease and oils may be located inside the building. Such
interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned and repaired regularly, as needed, by
the owner at his expense.
      3.   Laboratory and facilities commonly using acid or alkaline chemicals
or compounds must install a neutralizing basin. All basins shall be of type and
capacity approved by the Village and shall be so located to be easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   Equipment and devices installed under this section shall not be considered
to provide pretreatment to wastewater. Any user operating devices installed in
this section shall submit operating data as may be required by the Village.
   B.   Equalization and Pretreatment Equipment.
      1.   Approval. If the Village requires the equalization or pretreatment
of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall
be subject to the review and approval of the Village, and, subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws. Said facilities
shall also be subject to approval by IEPA consistent with IEPA regulations.
      2.   O & M. Where flow-equalizing or pretreatment facilities are
provided, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at his expense. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-3-8: FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Grease and Interceptors - Food Service Establishments (FSE). Hydro-
mechanical grease interceptors and gravity grease interceptors (collectively
referred to as grease interceptors or GI) are required to be installed in all
new FSE. All GI shall be of a type and capacity approved by the DuPage County
Health Department based on an evaluation of the volume and characteristics of
the discharge in conjunction with the operating plan of the FSE. GIs may be
required to be installed or modified in existing FSE where FSE that have caused
or contributed to overflows and/or blockages, or at existing FSE that that meet
the remodeling requirements identified in Section
9-3-3-8 or when streetscapes or street/sewer replacements are installed.
      1.   Installation Requirements.
         a.    All newly constructed FSE's shall install an exterior GI prior
to operation of the facility.
         b.   Common interceptors are required to be installed when the tenants
or purchasers of sub-properties that are unknown by the complex Owner and
zoning allows the build-out of an FSE in said properties. The Owner of the
property on which the common interceptor is located shall be primarily
responsible for the maintenance, upkeep, and repair of the common interceptor.
         c.   Existing FSE. All existing FSE's may be required to install a GI
at the request of the DPW. The DPW may require a GI to be installed or modified
in an existing FSE within ninety (90) calendar days of notification by the
Village where the FSE has caused or contributed to overflows and/or blockages,
when any reconstruction, rebuilding, or remodeling of fifty percent (50%) or
more of the building occurs, or when streetscapes or Street/Sewer Replacements
are installed. The DPW may require a new GI to be installed when the facility
has an undersized, irreparable, or defective GI. In the event that winter
weather will impact the installation of a GI, the DPW may grant an extension of
the installation schedule to a maximum of one hundred eighty (180) calendar
days.
         d.   Existing FSE where hot spots or blockages have occurred. GI's
will be required to be installed within ninety (90) calendar days of a notice
by the Village if hot spots or blockages have occurred. GI's interior to the
building may be required as an interim measure to the installation of an
exterior GI. Such GI will be required to be installed within from five (5) to
thirty (30) calendar days, as determined by the DPW based upon the nature of
the hot spot or blockage, after a notice by the Village.
      2.   Location. All GI shall be so located to be easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. All GI will be provided exterior to the building for
all new construction and when feasible at existing FSE. The GI shall not be
located in drive-through lanes.
      3.   An inspection fee as provided by Section
9-3-3-4 and found in Section
10-1-2 shall be paid to the Village prior to issuance of the permit should it
be determined that the user is required to install any GI.
      4.   Sign-off Inspection. Prior to the initial operation of any FSE, the
GI shall be inspected by the County and provide a sign-off to the Village.
      5.   Maintenance. Such GIs shall be inspected, the grease cap and solids
blanket cleaned every three months, the entire contents of the trap cleaned
annually and repaired regularly, as needed, by the owner at his expense. It
shall be the responsibility of the FSE to inspect its GI during the pumping
procedure to ensure the trap is properly cleaned out and that all fittings and
fixtures inside the trap are in working condition and functioning properly. In
the event that actual operations of the GI fail to produce results that
consistently prevent prohibitive discharges as defined in Section
9-3-5-2, the owner of the FSE will be required by the DPW to have the GI
cleaned at a more frequent rate or install additional pretreatment as
necessary.
      6.   Modifications. The DPW may make determinations of GI adequacy, need,
design, appropriateness, application, location, modification(s), and
conditional usage based on review of all relevant information regarding GI
performance, facility site and building plan review by all regulatory reviewing
agencies and may require repairs to, or modification or replacement of the GI.
      7.   All FSE are required to be issued a general permit as provided by
Sections
9-3-7 and
9-3-8.
   B.   Grease Interceptor Criteria. Shall comply with DuPage County Health
Department regulations. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-3-9: SEWER LINE MAINTENANCE/REPLACEMENT:
   A.   Sanitary sewer mains located in a right-of-way or easement granted to
the Village (generally intended to serve other separate properties upstream)
are the responsibility of the Village to own, maintain and operate.
    B.   Sanitary sewer service lateral pipes (building services) are as
follows:
       1.   Properties serviced by a sanitary sewer main in a right-of-way
(front yard connection):
         a.   The property owner is responsible for the maintenance, repair and
replacement of the private sewer service lateral pipe from their structure to
the right-of-way (property) line
          b.   The property owner is responsible for routine cleaning and
general maintenance of the sewer service lateral pipe to the connection at the
main line regardless of which side of the street the sanitary sewer main is on.
This includes periodic rodding due to issues such as root intrusion through
cracks or joints, mineral deposits or debris. This may include the need to
install an exterior sewer clean-out of a diameter matching the sewer service
lateral pipe to rod from
         c.   The Village is responsible for repair or replacement of the sewer
service lateral pipe portion that lays in the right-of-way in the event of a
full pipe collapse or similar defect that cannot be resolved through rodding.
Such repairs require recorded video inspection evidence witnessed by a Village
representative to determine the extent and location of the defect
      2.   Properties serviced by a sanitary sewer main in an easement (i.e.
rear yard connection):
         a.   The property owner is responsible for the maintenance, repair and
replacement of the private sewer service lateral pipe from their structure to
the connection at the main line
         b.   The Village is responsible for repair or replacement of the
connection of sewer service lateral pipe immediately at the sanitary sewer main
line
         c.   Properties regulated by associations: The responsibility for the
private sewer service lateral pipe may be the property owner or the association
as dictated by association covenants. The presence or absence of covenant
language shall in no way imply Village responsibility for sewer service lateral
pipe different than that described above.
          d.   Non-Residential Properties: The property owner is responsible
for the maintenance, repair and replacement of all sanitary sewer pipe,
manholes, separate unit service laterals and other appurtenances up to the
right-of-way (property) line or to the connection at the sanitary sewer main in
an easement as summarized above
   C.   Work in the Right-of-Way: In the event the property owner and/or
contractor finds it necessary to excavate the private sewer line (including in
the right-of-way) the property owner shall be responsible for the cost of such
work including the restoration of any street, curb, sidewalk or other
improvements.
    D.   Work on Village sanitary sewer mains: Private property owners and/or
contractors shall not connect to, modify or damage any portion of the Village
sanitary sewer main including the point of connection of the sewer service
lateral pipe without authorization by the Village. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-3-10: AUTOMOBILE SERVICE, REPAIR AND FUEL DISPENSING PROPERTIES:
   A.   When property use involves car washes, automotive repair or handling,
sale and dispensing of petroleum products and/or automotive fluids, all
discharges shall have installed a sampling manhole consistent with the
requirements of Section
9-3-3-6. All sampling manholes of this type shall be monitored throughout the
year in a manner secured and coordinated by the Pretreatment Coordinator.
Additionally, any property involved in the repair or servicing of automobiles,
trucks, or engine-powered equipment shall install a triple basin oil separator
in the sanitary line (per State of Illinois Plumbing codes) servicing the
repair area of the building. This system shall be cleaned, serviced and
inspected at least four times per year by the owner at his expense. The
property may petition the Pretreatment Coordinator to reduce the cleaning and
servicing of the triple basin oil separator to two times per year upon
demonstration that the amount removed quarterly is significantly less than 25%
rule for the basin capacity and the discharge does not exceed the oil and
grease local limit. Conversely, the system may be required by the Pretreatment
Coordinator to be cleaned at a more frequent rate if the property cannot meet
the requirements.
   B.   When property use involves automotive repair or handling, sale and
dispensing of petroleum products and/or automotive fluids, there shall be a
separate drainage system constructed to collect all fluids from the areas
associated with pump islands and under pump canopies. This separate drainage
system shall collect these fluids and hold them in a separate sealed tank for
testing and removal by approved special waste handling methods. All fuel
dispensing equipment, piping and venting shall be installed in accordance with
the standards listed below and be in accordance and in compliance with the
current adopted building, electrical and fire codes:
      1.   Guidance Manual for LUST Cleanups in Illinois, September 1989; and
Leaking Underground Storage Tank Manual, September 1991; both published by
IEPA, 2200 Churchill Road, P.O. Box 19276, Springfield, IL 62794-9276.
      2.   Recommended Practices for Installation of Underground Liquid Storage
Systems, PEI/RP 100, 1994; published by Petroleum Equipment Institute, P.O. Box
2380, Tulsa, OK 74101.
      3.   Flammable and Combustible Liquid Code, NFPA/30, 1993; Automotive and
Marine Services Station Code, NFPA/30A, 1993; National Electric Code, NFPA/70,
1993; and Underground Leakage of Flammable and Combustible Liquids, NFPA/329,
1992; all published by National Fire Protection Association, 1 Batterymarch
Park, P.O. Box 9101, Quincy, MA 02269-9904.
      4.   Underground Storage Tanks; Technical Requirements and State Program
Approval; Final Rules, 40 CFR Parts 280 and 281, Part II, Federal Register,
Friday, September 23, 1988; and Musts for UST's: A Summary of the New
Regulations for Underground Storage Tank Systems, and Hazardous Waste
Management Standards, Federal Register, July 14, 1986, both published by USEPA,
Office of Underground Storage Tanks, 401 M Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20460.
      5.   Rules of the Illinois State Fire Marshall, Parts 170 & 180, Title
41, Chapter 1, State of Illinois, Office of the Fire Marshall, 1035 Stevenson
Parkway, Springfield, IL 62703.
   C.   Jurisdiction:
      1.   These requirements shall be met by any property use associated with
automotive repair or the handling, sale or dispensing of petroleum products
and/or automotive fluids, where any water main, wastewater or stormwater
facility is under the jurisdiction of the Village, regardless of whether or not
such property lies within the corporate limits of the Village.
      2.   The requirements of this Section
9-3-3-10 shall not be applied to existing property uses except that whenever a
permit shall be required for new construction or reconstruction of a property
use associated with automotive repair or the handling, sale or dispensing of
petroleum products and/or automotive fluids, involving placement, replacement,
reconfiguration, removal or modification of any fueling area, or a discharge
has occurred that does not meet the local limits, or a blockage has been caused
or contributed to, compliance with the provisions of Section
9-3-3-9 shall be required. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-3-11: AMALGAM MANAGEMENT AT DENTAL OFFICES:
   A.   Applicability.
      1.   Except as provided in paragraphs 3, 4, and 5 of this section, this
part applies to Dental dischargers as defined in Section
9-3-1-6.
      2.   Dental dischargers subject to this part are not Significant
Industrial Users as defined in 40 CFR part 403, and are not Categorical
Industrial Users or industrial users subject to Categorical Pretreatment
Standards as those terms and variations are used in 40 CFR part 403, as a
result of applicability of 40 CFR 441.
      3.   This part does not apply to Dental dischargers that exclusively
practice one or more of the following dental specialties: oral pathology, oral
and maxillofacial radiology, oral and maxillofacial surgery, orthodontics,
periodontics, or prosthodontics.
      4.   This part does not apply to wastewater discharges from Mobile Units
as defined in Section
9-3-1-6 operated by a Dental discharger.
      5.   This part does not apply to Dental dischargers that do not discharge
any amalgam process wastewater as defined in Section
9-3-1-6 to a POTW, such as Dental dischargers that collect all Dental amalgam
process wastewater for transfer to a Centralized Waste Treatment facility as
defined in 40 CFR part 437.
      6.   Dental dischargers that do not place Dental Amalgam as defined in
Section
9-3-1-6, and do not remove amalgam except in limited emergency or unplanned,
unanticipated circumstances, and that certify such to the Village and USEPA
Region V as required in 40 CFR 441.50 are exempt from any further requirements
of this part.
   B.   Existing Dental Discharger Compliance. Within the shortest reasonable
time, but not later than July 14, 2020, any Existing Dental Discharger as
defined in Section
9-3-1-6 subject to this section must comply with the requirements of 40 CFR
441.30(a) that defines removal of amalgam solids and (b) implementation of two
Best Management Practices. Dental dischargers must file a One-Time Compliance
Report per 40 CFR 441.50(a) by October 12, 2020 to the Village and USEPA Region
V and maintain and make available for inspection defined records per 40 CFR
441.50(b).
      1.   If a transfer of an Existing Source occurs after July 14, 2020, the
new owner must submit a new One-Time Compliance Report no later than 90 days
after the transfer.
   C.   New Dental Discharger Compliance. As of July 14, 2017, any New Dental
Discharger Source as defined in Section
9-3-1-6 subject to this section must comply with the requirements of 40 CFR
441.40 that states discharges must comply with the requirements of 441.30 (a)
that defines removal of amalgam solids and (b) implementation of two Best
Management Practices. Dental dischargers must file a One-Time Compliance Report
per 40 CFR 441.50(a) no later than ninety (90) days following the introduction
of wastewater into the POTW and maintain and make available for inspection
defined records per 40 CFR 441.50(b).
      1.   If a transfer of a New Source occurs after July 14, 2017, the new
owner must submit a new One-Time Compliance Report no later than 90 days after
the transfer.
   D.   Limited Dental Dischargers. Limited Dental Dischargers must file a One-
Time Compliance Report with certification that they do not remove dental
amalgam except in limited emergency or unplanned, unanticipated circumstances
by October 12, 2020 for Existing Sources and within ninety (90) days following
the introduction of wastewater for New Sources.
    E.   Signatory Requirements. The One-Time Compliance Report must be signed
and certified by a responsible corporate officer, a general partner or
proprietor if the dental discharger is a partnership or sole proprietorship, or
a duly authorized representative in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR
403.12(j) and Section
9-3-1-6 under Authorized Representative (5) and (6). (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-4: INFORMATION REQUIRED OF NON-RESIDENTIAL USERS:
9-3-4-1: INITIAL SURVEY (QUESTIONNAIRE):
   A.   The Initial Survey shall be completed in order to ensure that said Non-
Residential Users of the POTW of the Village adhere to and comply with the
restrictions and prohibitions pertaining to pretreatment standards of wastes
discharged into the POTW of the Village set forth in Section
9-3-5, spill control of raw materials, intermediates and waste as set forth in
Section
9-3-6-5, and to facilitate the Village's investigation of apparent or suspected
violations thereof. The requirements are as follows:
      1.   All existing Non-Residential Users in the Village or in areas
receiving sewer service from the Village, shall complete and submit an Initial
Survey on a form provided by the Village when requested by the Village.
      2.   All new Non-Residential Users in the Village or in areas receiving
sewer service from the Village, shall complete and submit an Initial Survey on
a form provided by the Village prior to the issuance of a building permit.
      3.   All users defined in Section
9-3-4-1.A.1 seeking to establish a new account for sanitary sewer service from
the Village or to establish a new connection to the POTW of the Village shall
file a completed Initial Survey with the Village as a condition to the
establishment of such new sanitary sewer service account or connection to the
POTW of the Village.
      4.   All users defined above that fail to complete and submit to the
Village an Initial Survey shall be in violation of the provisions of this
division (Section
9-3-4-1) and shall be subject to all of the applicable penalties thereof,
including but expressly not limited to the revocation of all permits and
approvals previously granted to the commercial or industrial user in question
for the discharge of sewage or wastewater into the POTW of the Village.
   B.   Food Service Establishment (FSE) Survey: The Initial FSE Survey shall
ensure that Food Service Establishments using the POTW of the Village adhere to
and comply with the restrictions and prohibitions pertaining to pretreatment
standards of wastes discharged into the POTW of the Village set forth in
Section
9-3-5-2 and to control spills of raw materials, intermediates and waste as set
forth in Section
9-3-6-5, and shall facilitate the Village's investigation of apparent or
suspected violations thereof. The requirements for the Initial FSE Survey are
as follows:
      1.   All existing or new FSE's, including those is areas receiving sewer
service from the Village, shall complete and submit an Initial FSE Survey on a
form provided by the Village when requested by the Village.
      2.   The Initial FSE Survey shall cover at a minimum information that
includes a description of processes, kitchen fixtures, water usage and
wastewater characteristics, plus grease usage and management for the facility.
This information will be required to be submitted and will be evaluated by the
Village for determination of the requirement to issue a General FSE Discharge
Permit or FSEP per Section
9-3-8-2.D.
      3.   All new FSE's that establish a new account for sanitary sewer
service or those that transfer an existing FSE account in the Village shall
file a completed Initial FSE Survey with the Village as a condition to the
establishment of such new or transferred sanitary sewer service account or
connection to the POTW of the Village.
      4.   The Initial Survey shall contain a statement affirming the truth,
completeness and correctness of information submitted signed by an Authorized
Representative of the user as defined in Section
9-3-1-6. In the event that the Village obtains the information through a site
inspection(s) but the Initial Survey is not signed by an Authorized
Representative, the Village may proceed to determine classification and permit
as appropriate based on the information obtained at the site.
      5.   All users defined above that fail to complete and submit to the
Village an Initial Survey within thirty (30) calendar days of notice by the
Village shall be in violation of the provisions of this Division (Section
9-3-4-1.A) and shall be subject to all of the applicable penalties thereof,
including but expressly not limited to the revocation of all permits and
approvals previously granted to the user in question for the discharge of
sewage or wastewater into the POTW of the Village. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-4-2: AFFIRMATION TO INITIAL SURVEY:
   A.   The Village shall determine based on building, zoning and occupant
usage whether the user shall be required to file an Affirmation of Survey every
five years. The users status will be defined by the Village after review of the
Initial Survey submitted as required in Section
9-3-4-1.
   B.   Any user, defined in Section
9-3-4-1, having filed an Initial Survey where the information remains true,
complete and correct in all respects may be required to submit a statement that
the information remains current as part of a discharge permit application
process.
      1.   The statement is required to be signed by an Authorized
Representative of the firm.
      2.   The statement will be due normally not later than January 31 of each
year required.
      3.   All users defined above that fail to file an Affirmation with the
Village shall be in violation of the provisions of this division (Section
9-3-4-1) and shall be subject to all of the applicable penalties thereof,
including but expressly not limited to the revocation of all permits and
approvals previously granted to the commercial or Industrial User in question
for the discharge of sewage or wastewater into the POTW of the Village. (Ord.
2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-4-3: REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS:
Any user, defined in Section
9-3-4-1, that makes any changes determined to be substantial as defined in
Section
9-3-9-6 shall report said changes as required in Section
9-3-9-6. Reports of changed conditions are required to be made prior to the
change. The user may be required to file an updated survey as a result of
changed conditions. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-4-4: ADDITIONAL SURVEY INFORMATION:
   A.   After review of the Initial Survey completed per Section
9-3-4-1, all Non-Residential Users that the Village has defined to have the
potential to be defined a Significant Industrial User (SIU) or a Non-
Significant Regulated User (NSRU) shall be required to complete and file a more
detailed wastewater Survey on a form provided by the Village. At a minimum, a
description of processes, water usage and wastewater characteristics for the
facility will be required to be submitted. This information will be evaluated
by the Village for determination of the requirement to issue an Individual
Wastewater Discharge Permit per Sections
9-3-7 and
9-3-8 or a General Wastewater Discharge Permit.
   B.   Periodic Updates of Wastewater Survey Information. The information
provided in the Wastewater Survey may be required to be revised and/or updated
for the following conditions:
      1.   A Report of Changed Conditions is filed as required in Section
9-3-9-6;
      2.   An application for a Wastewater Discharge Permit is required to be
filed per Section
9-3-7 and
9-3-8; or
      3.   A re-issuance of a Wastewater Discharge Permit occurs per Section
9-3-8-7.
   C.   In addition to the Wastewater Survey defined in Section
9-3-4-4, Categorical Industrial Users may be required to complete a category
specific survey that identifies sub-processes and processes performed at the
site in order to define which sub-processes and processes are regulated by an
USEPA Effluent Guideline category. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-5: GENERAL DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS:
9-3-5-1: APPLICABILITY:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to discharge or cause to be discharged to any
facility served by the Village, without having first complied with the terms of
this chapter.
   B.   Users must meet the most stringent applicable requirements and
limitations at all times either as set forth in this chapter, or in individual
Wastewater Discharge Permits, Federal Pretreatment Standards as established by
40 CFR Part 403, or State of Illinois Standards as codified in 35 IAC 307. Said
users shall provide the necessary wastewater treatment to achieve compliance
with all National Categorical Pretreatment Standards and requirements within
the time limitations as specified by the Federal Pretreatment Regulations, and
with any other pretreatment standards including local limits and requirements,
by applicable deadlines.
   C.   Each FSE shall provide Wastewater Pretreatment and implement Best
Management Practices as necessary to comply with this Section and shall achieve
compliance with all local limits and the prohibitions set out in Sections
9-3-5-2 and
9-3-5-5, respectively, within the time limitations specified by the
Pretreatment Coordinator. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-5-2: PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS:
These general prohibitions apply to all users of a POTW whether or not they are
subject to a Categorical Pretreatment Standard or any other National, State or
local Pretreatment Standards or Requirements.
   A.   No user shall introduce or cause to be introduced, directly or
indirectly to the Village POTW, any pollutant or wastewater contaminant which
will pass through, cause interference with, inhibition of, or cause potential
problems to the operation of the POTW;
   B.   No user shall increase the use of potable or process water in any other
way, attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for
adequate treatment in order to achieve compliance with a Pretreatment Standard
or Requirement except where expressly authorized to do so by an applicable
Pretreatment Standard or Requirements and in a Wastewater Discharge Permit. The
DPW may impose mass limitations on Users who are using dilution to meet
applicable Pretreatment Standards or Requirements, or in other cases when the
imposition of mass limitations is appropriate; and
   C.   No user shall introduce, or cause to be contributed, either directly or
indirectly, any of the following described pollutants, substances or wastewater
into the POTW:
      1.   Any unpolluted water including, but not limited to, uncontaminated
non-contact cooling water, storm-water, surface and ground-waters, subsurface
drainage, roof run-off, spill contaminant area run-off, footing drains or
construction drainage except as specifically permitted by the Pretreatment
Coordinator;
      2.   Any pollutant which by reason of their nature or quantity, are or
may be sufficient, either alone or by interaction, to cause safety hazards,
fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the facilities or
personnel of the Village, or to the operation of Village POTW. Materials
considered in this regard are those with a closed cup flashpoint of less than
140º F or 60º C using the test methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21;
      3.   Any solid, solid waste or viscous substance that will cause
obstruction to the flow in a sewer or the POTW, or other interference to the
operation of the POTW. Prohibited materials include but are not limited to:
waste cooking oil, grease, grease interceptor wastes, garbage with particles
greater than one-half (1/2-inch) in any direction, animal guts or tissues,
paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood,
feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass,
straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains or hops, paper, wood,
plastics, residues from gas, tar or asphalt, residues from refining or
processing of fuel or lubricating oils, mud or glass grinding or polishing
waste, fatty acids or esters of fatty acids, or any material which can be
disposed of as trash;
      4.   Any noxious or malodorous solids, liquids, or gases, which either
singly or by their interaction are capable of creating a public nuisance or
hazard to life, or to interfere with, inhibit or cause potential problems to
any operation of POTW, including but not limited to, prevention of entry into
sewers for their maintenance and repair;
      5.   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems or which necessitates the Village taking special measures to
counteract and/or alleviate the impact of the pollutant(s);
      6.   Any wastewater containing substances in sufficient quantity to
Interfere with the POTW;
      7.   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction, to injure, interfere with or cause potential
problems to any POTW treatment processes or facilities, constitute a hazard to
humans or animals, or to exceed limitation as set forth in the existing Act, or
the Act as it may be amended;
      8.   Any wastewater having a temperature which shall inhibit biological
activity or cause interference in the Village's POTW facilities, but in no case
heat in such a quantity that the influent temperature at the POTW will exceed
40º C (104º F);
      9.   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.5 or higher than 9.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment or personnel in the POTW. The pH limits are instantaneous
limits that shall be met at all times, and are not subject to averaging;
      10.   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants, released in a
discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration (including any slug
load), either singly or by interaction with other pollutants which may cause
interference with, inhibit, or cause potential problems to the POTW;
      11.   Ammonia nitrogen in amounts that would cause a violation of the
Water Quality Standards of the receiving waters of the POTW;
      12.   Any wastes containing detergents, surface active agents, aqueous
firefighting foam or other substances which may cause excessive foaming in the
collection system or the treatment process that result in POTW interference
and/or pass through and/or is shown to inhibit the nitrification process.
Wastes prohibited in this section shall not be processed or stored in such a
manner that they could be discharged to the POTW;
      13.   Additives for the purpose of emulsifying or biologically/chemically
treating FOG for grease remediation or as a supplement to interceptor
maintenance that have a content of enzymes, surfactants or solvents that is
greater than ten percent (10%) of the volume without the written consent of the
Pretreatment Coordinator;
      14.   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of
mineral oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
      15.   Any wastewater containing any organism, including viruses,
considered pathogenic and/or detrimental to POTW organisms other than by direct
excrement and any other wastes defined as medical wastes;
      16.   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes,
except in compliance with Village, State and Federal rules governing such
discharges;
      17.   Wastewater or wastes containing iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not;
      18.   Any leachate, groundwater remediation wastewater or waste material,
originating within the POTW service area, which does not meet discharge
limitations as set forth in this Section or determined by this Section except
at discharge points designated by the Pretreatment Coordinator;
      19.   All trucked or hauled waste; except at the Village designated
discharge points. All such wastes are to be individually approved and permitted
by the Village as set forth in this Section prior to discharge;
      20.   Any biosolids, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment
of non-residential wastes;
      21.   Any solid, solid waste or viscous substances that have caused an
obstruction to the flow in a sewer that is eliminated by a professional service
or contractor;
      22.   Inert suspended solids (such as, but not limited to Fullers earth,
lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved solids (such as, but not
limited to sodium chloride and sodium sulfate) that cause potential problems to
or interfere with POTW operations;
      23.   Any substance with color which is not removed in the treatment
processes, such as, but not limited to: dye waste, ink waste and vegetable
tanning solutions;
      24.   Any substances that inhibit the use of UV for disinfection
purposes;
      25.   Wastewater or wastes containing substances which are not amenable
to treatment or reduction by the POTW treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the POTW effluent cannot meet
the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to the
receiving waters;
      26.   Any substance or combination of substances which shall cause the
POTW facilities to be in violation of its NPDES permit(s), or to cause the
Village's POTW to violate receiving stream water quality and/or general
effluent discharge standards;
      27.   Any wastewater causing the POTW effluent to fail a toxicity test;
      28.   Any substance which may cause the Village's POTW effluent or
biosolids, to be unsuitable for reclamation and re-use, or Interfere with the
reclamation processes. In no case shall a substance discharged to the Village's
POTW cause the Village to be in noncompliance with any biosolids use or
disposal regulations developed under Section 405 of the Act; or any regulations
affecting biosolids use or disposal developed pursuant to the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act, Solids Waste Disposal Act, Toxic Substance
Control Act, or any State; or local standards applicable to any biosolids
management methods either being used, or considered by the Village.
      29.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor greater than one
horsepower shall be subject to the review and approval of the DPW/VE or his
designee.
      30.   Any waste containing items that could clog or damage the Village's
sanitary sewers, pump stations or POTW operation including but not limited to
the following items: disposable wipes, personal care wipes and products,
antibacterial wipes, feminine care products, diapers, baby wipes, wet/dry
cleaning cloths, rags, paper towels, napkins, string, zip ties, laundry dryer
sheets, and any plastic products.
   D.   Wastes prohibited in this section shall not be processed or stored in
such manner that they could be discharged or introduced to the POTW. All users
with prohibited wastes described in this Section or those that have Hazardous
Wastes as defined in Section
9-3-9-9 shall develop and implement a Spill Prevention/Slug Control Containment
and Countermeasures Plan consistent with the requirements in Section
9-3-6-5. The Pretreatment Coordinator may also determine Spill Prevention/Slug
Control is required of liquids and solids not previously described on either
list based on an evaluation of a site potential to cause spills or slug loads
to be introduced to the POTW. Notice Requirements shall be permanently posted
as provided in Sections
9-3-6-5 and
9-3-9-7.
   E.   Requirements of Polluted Discharges - Discharge Locations:
      1.   Discharge of Polluting Substances From Fixtures into Storm Sewers
Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person or user to connect or cause to
be connected, any drain carrying, or to carry, any toilet, sink, basement,
septic tank, cesspool, industrial waste, or any fixture or device discharging
polluting substances, to any storm sewer or storm water drainage system within
the corporate limits of the Village.
      2.   Discharge of Sanitary and Industrial Waste into Storm Drainage
Systems Prohibited, Nuisance Declared. For reasons of the protection of the
health, safety and welfare of the inhabitants of the Village, is the declared
policy of the Village to prohibit sanitary and industrial waste from entering
into the storm water drainage system, and any such connection to the storm
water drainage system is determined to be injurious to the public health and
welfare and is hereby declared a public nuisance.
      3.   Prohibited Discharges into Natural Outlets. It shall be unlawful to
discharge into any natural outlet within the Village or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the Village, any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter and the required permits
have been obtained and is in compliance with the Clean Water Act.
   F.   Requirements of Unpolluted Discharges:
      1.   Discharge of Sump Pumps. A sump pump or sump pumps shall not be
discharged to the sanitary sewer. A shut-off value or similar device which can
divert the unpolluted discharge from the sump pump into the sanitary sewer
system, rather than into the storm system, or vice versa, shall not be
constructed or installed, and any construction or installation of same shall be
deemed a violation of this chapter. It shall be prima facie evidence of a
violation of this chapter if any person or user has on his premises or under
his control a sump pump, or any other pump, fixture, or gravity drain connected
to the sanitary sewer system which would allow the flow of unpolluted water
into the sanitary sewer system.
      .   Discharge of Unpolluted Drainage into Storm Sewers or Natural
Outlets. Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall not be discharged
to the sanitary sewers. These discharges shall comply with Title 5, Chapter 3
of the Village code. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-5-3: NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS:
This pretreatment requirements shall apply to all Non-Residential Users subject
to National Categorical Pretreatment Standards, promulgated by the USEPA in
accordance with Section 307(b) and (c) of the Act, currently discharging or
scheduled to discharge to the Village. The National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards, found in 40 CFR Chapter 1, Subchapter N, Parts 405 - 471 are hereby
incorporated into this chapter.
Limits in Categorical Pretreatment Standards shall apply to the discharge from
the process regulated by the Standard or as otherwise specified by the
Standard. Compliance with National Categorical Pretreatment Standards is
mandatory.
   A.   Where a Categorical Pretreatment Standard is expressed only in terms of
either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
Pretreatment Coordinator may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in
accordance with paragraphs B and F below and 40 CFR 403.6(c) unless
specifically restricted by the Categorical Pretreatment Standard. These
equivalent limitations calculated in accordance with the following requirements
are deemed pretreatment standards. Users shall be required to comply with the
equivalent limitations instead of the promulgated Categorical Standards from
which the equivalent limitations were derived. An alternative pretreatment
limit shall not be used if the alternative limit is below the analytical
detection limit for any of the regulated pollutants.
   B.   When the limits in a Categorical Pretreatment Standard are expressed
only in terms of mass of pollutant per unit production, the Village
Pretreatment Coordinator may convert the limits to equivalent limitations
expressed either as mass of pollutant discharged per day or effluent
concentration for purposes of calculating effluent limitations applicable to
individual users.
   The Village calculating equivalent mass-per-day limitations shall calculate
such limitations by multiplying the limits in the Standard by the user's
average rate of production. This average rate of production shall be based not
upon the designed production capacity, but rather upon a reasonable measure of
the user's actual long-term daily production during a representative year. For
new sources, actual production shall be estimated using projected production.
   The Village calculating equivalent concentration limitations shall calculate
such limitations by dividing the mass limitations by the average daily flow
rate of the user's regulated process wastewater. This average daily flow rate
must be based upon a reasonable measure of the user's actual long-term average
flow rate, such as the average daily flow rate during the representative year.
   C.   When wastewater subject to a Categorical Pretreatment Standard is mixed
with wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the Pretreatment
Coordinator shall impose an alternate limit using the combined waste stream
formula in 40 CFR 403.6(e) provided that the regulation allows the wastewaters
to be mixed and the user can supply the information necessary to allow issuance
of an alternative limit.
   D.   A user may request a variance from Categorical Pretreatment Standards
from USEPA based on fundamentally different factors. The request must comply
with the procedural and substantive provisions in 40 CFR 403.13.
   E.   A user may request a net gross adjustment to a Categorical Pretreatment
Standard in accordance with 40 CFR 403.15.
   F.   When a Categorical Pretreatment Standard is expressed only in terms of
pollutant concentrations, a user may request that the Village convert the
limits to equivalent mass limits. The determination to convert concentration
limits to mass limits is within the discretion of the Pretreatment Coordinator.
The Village may establish equivalent mass limits only if the user meets all the
conditions set forth in Sections 1(a) through 1(e) below.
      1.   To be eligible for equivalent mass limits, the user must:
         a.   Employ, or demonstrate that it will employ, water conservation
methods and technologies that substantially reduce water during the term of its
individual Wastewater Discharge Permit;
         b.   Currently use control and treatment technologies adequate to
achieve compliance with the applicable Categorical Pretreatment Standard, and
not have used dilution as a substitute for treatment;
         c.   Provide sufficient information to establish the facility's actual
average daily flow rate for all wastestreams, based on data from a continuous
effluent flow monitoring device, as well as the facility's long-term average
production rate. Both the actual average daily flow rate and the long-term
average production rate must be representative of current operating conditions;
         d.   Not have daily flow rates, production levels, or pollutant levels
that vary so significantly that equivalent mass limits are not appropriate to
control the discharge; and
         e.   Have consistently complied with all applicable Categorical
Pretreatment Standards during the period prior to the user's request for
equivalent mass limits.
      2.   A user subject to equivalent mass limits must:
         a.   Maintain and effectively operate control and treatment
technologies adequate to achieve compliance with the equivalent mass limits;
         b.   Continue to record the facility's flow rates through the use of a
continuous effluent flow monitoring device;
         c.   Continue to record the facility's production rates and notify the
Pretreatment Coordinator whenever production rates are expected to vary by more
than 20 percent from its baseline production rates determined in paragraph 1(c)
of this Section. Upon notification of a revised production rate, the
Pretreatment Coordinator will reassess the equivalent mass limit and revise the
limit as necessary to reflect changed conditions at the facility; and
         d.   Continue to employ the same or comparable water conservation
methods and technologies as those implemented pursuant to paragraph 1(a) of
this Section so long as it discharges under an equivalent mass limit.
      3.   When developing equivalent mass limits, the Pretreatment
Coordinator:
         a.   Will calculate the equivalent mass limit by multiplying the
actual average daily flow rate of the regulated process(es) of the user by the
concentration-based daily maximum and monthly average standard for the
applicable Categorical Pretreatment Standard and the appropriate unit
conversion factor;
         b.   Upon notification of a revised production rate, will reassess the
equivalent mass limit and recalculate the limit necessary to reflect changed
conditions at the facility; and
         c.   May retain the same equivalent mass limit in subsequent
individual Wastewater Discharge Permit terms if the user's actual average daily
flow rate was reduced solely as a result of the implementation of water
conservation methods and technologies, and the actual average daily flow rates
used in the original calculation of the equivalent mass limit were not based on
the use of dilution as a substitute for treatment pursuant to Section
9-3-5-2.B. The user must be in compliance with Section
9-3-16-3 regarding the prohibition of bypass.
   G.   The Pretreatment Coordinator may convert the mass limits of the
Categorical Pretreatment Standards of 40 CFR Parts 414, 419 and 455 to
concentration limits for purposes of calculating limitations applicable to
individual users. The conversion is at the discretion of the Pretreatment
Coordinator.
   H.   Once included in its Wastewater Discharge Permit, the user must comply
with the equivalent limitations developed in this Section in lieu of the
promulgated Categorical Pretreatment Standards from which the equivalent
limitations were derived. Note: see 40 CFR 403.6(c)(7).
   I.   Many Categorical Pretreatment Standards specify one limit for
calculating maximum daily discharge limitations and a second limit for
calculating maximum monthly average, or 4-day average, limitations. Where such
standards are being applied, the same production or flow figure shall be used
in calculating both the average and the maximum equivalent limitations. Note:
see 40 CFR 403.6(c)(8).
   J.   Any user operating under a permit incorporating equivalent mass or
concentration limits calculated from a production-based standard shall notify
the Pretreatment Coordinator with two (2) business days after the user has a
reasonable basis to know that the production level will significantly change
within the next calendar month. Any user not notifying the Pretreatment
Coordinator of such anticipated change will be required to meet the mass or
concentration limits in its permit that were based on the original estimate of
the long term average production rate. Note: see 40 CFR 403.6(c)(9).
   All users that are subject to National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
are required to file reports as required in this chapter, signed by an
Authorized Representative per Sections
9-3-9-2 and
9-3-9-3. These reports shall include all information that the Village deems
necessary to make compliance determinations. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-5-4: STATE LIMITS:
   A.   All users are subject to State standards and requirements as defined in
35 Ill Adm. Code (IAC) 307. Specifically, the standard for discharge of mercury
is as follows:
      1.   Mercury (35 IAC 307.1102)
         a.   Except as provided below, no person shall cause or allow the
concentration of mercury in any discharge to a publicly owned or publicly
regulated sewer system to exceed the following level, subject to the averaging
rule contained in 35 IAC 304.104(a):
 
CONSTITUENT STORET NUMBER CONCENTRATION mg/l
Mercury     71900         0.0005
 
         b.   It shall be an exception to subsection a) if the discharge is to
a publicly owned or publicly regulated sewer system which is required to meet a
limitation less stringent than the 0.0005 mg/l mercury concentration in which
case the discharge limitation shall be the same as that applicable to the
publicly owned or regulated sewer system to which it discharges.
         c.   It shall be an exception to subsection a) if all the following
conditions are met:
            (1)   The discharger does not use mercury; or, the discharger uses
mercury and this use cannot be eliminated; or, the discharger uses mercury only
in chemical analysis or in laboratory or other equipment and takes reasonable
care to avoid contamination of wastewater; and,
            (2)   The discharge mercury concentration is less than 0.003 mg/l,
as determined by application of the averaging rules of 35 IAC 304.104(a); and,
            (3)   The discharger is providing the best degree of treatment
consistent with technological feasibility, economic reasonableness and sound
engineering judgment. This may include no treatment for mercury; and,
            (4)   The discharger has an inspection and maintenance program
likely to reduce or to prevent an increase in the level of mercury discharges.
         d.   The discharge of wastes from medicinal or therapeutic use of
mercury, exclusive of laboratory use, shall be exempt from the limitations of
subsection a) if all the following conditions are met:
            (1)   The total discharge is less than two hundred and twenty-seven
grams (227 g,) (one half pound) as mercury (Hg) in any year;
            (2)   This discharge is to a public sewer system; and
            (3)   The discharge does not, alone or in conjunction with other
sources, causes the effluent from the sewer system or treatment plant to exceed
0.0005 mg/l of mercury.
         e.   No person shall cause or allow any discharge of mercury to a
publicly owned or publicly regulated sewer system which, alone or in
combination with other sources, causes a violation by the sewer treatment plant
discharge of the Water Quality Standard of 35 IAC 302 for mercury applicable in
the receiving stream.
         f.   For purposes of permit issuance the IEPA may consider application
of the exception of subsection (b) or (c) to determine compliance with this
Section. The IEPA may impose permit conditions necessary or required to assure
continued application of the exception. When subsection (b) or (c) applies, the
IEPA may impose an effluent limitation in the permit which allows the discharge
of a concentration of mercury greater than 0.0005 mg/l but not more than 0.003
mg/l. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-5-5: LOCAL LIMITS:
The following pollutant limits are established to protect against pass through
and interference.
   A.   Non-Toxic Pollutants:
 
POLLUTANT (total unless otherwise    CONCENTRATION (mg/l) Instantaneous Daily
listed)                              Maximum
Oil and Grease - at non-food service
establishment (FSE) or food          100
manufacturing sites
Oil and Grease - at FSE              200
 
   B.   Toxic Pollutants. No user shall discharge any wastewater containing
concentrations greater than the daily maximum local limits as set forth below
into any sewers that connect either directly or indirectly to the POTW.
POLLUTANT (total unless otherwise listed) CONCENTRATION (mg/l)
POLLUTANT (total unless otherwise listed) CONCENTRATION (mg/l)
Daily Maximum                             Instantaneous
Arsenic                                   2.0
Cadmium                                   0.64
Chromium                                  18.0
Chromium (hexavalent)                     0.85
Copper                                    1.8
Cyanide                                   0.13
Lead                                      3.0
Mercury (see Section 9-3-5-4)             0.0005
Nickel                                    1.5
Phenols                                   1.5
Silver                                    0.7
Zinc                                      1.0
 
   C.   FSE Twenty-five Percent (25%) Requirement. The Village reserves the
right to apply a Twenty-five Percent (25%) Requirement at the discharge side of
the external grease interceptor prior to mixing with any other wastewater from
the contributing FSE's property in lieu of the limits listed in Section
9-3-5-5.A above. The last section of an external GI at an FSE shall be measured
to determine that the total volume of the GI being used for any food-derived
solids to settle or accumulate plus the floatable grease-derived materials that
rise and accumulate, identified as a solids blanket and grease cap
respectively, is less than twenty-five percent (25%) of the total design
hydraulic depth as measured from the effluent discharge pipe to the bottom
("Twenty-five Percent (25%) Requirement"). The Village may also apply the
twenty-five percent (25%) Requirement for external GI that are used in non-FSE
locations such as an automobile service, repair and dispensing properties.
   D.   The Village will apply the local limits found in Sections
9-3-5-5.A and B above normally at the end-of-pipe point where the non-
residential waste is discharged to the municipal sewer system.
   E.   The Village reserves the right to establish requirements, by ordinance
or in a Wastewater Discharge Permit or general permit, to require control over
the quantities and rates of discharge from any user.
   F.   The Village reserves the right to establish, by ordinance or in a
Wastewater Discharge Permit, mass limitations rather than concentration
limitations on discharges particularly if users are using dilution to meet
applicable Pretreatment Standards or Requirements, or in other cases when the
imposition of mass limitations is appropriate.
   G.   The Village reserves the right to set specific limits for those
pollutants not identified in Sections
9-3-5-5.A or B on a case by case basis for impacts caused to the POTW including
but not limited to interference, potential problem, pass through and prevention
of beneficial biosolids re-use. Those limits shall be set forth in a Wastewater
Discharge Permit per Section
9-3-8.
      1.   Local limits for additional pollutants not identified in Sections
505.A or B will be noticed to the permit holder a minimum of 30 days prior to
the effective date of the Wastewater Discharge Permit. In the event that the
Village receives written comment on said limit during the comment period, the
limit will take effect within sixty (60) days of the public notice date to
allow review and comment by the Village.
   H.   The Village may develop Best Management Practices (BMPs), by ordinance
or in individual Wastewater Discharge Permits or general permits, to implement
local limits and the requirements of Section
9-3-5-2.
   I.   Any user whose discharge may be pretreated and/or treated more
effectively by the Village, and discharges to the Village's POTW that cause the
Village to alter its method of wastewater treatment or biosolids disposal to a
more costly method shall be assessed the differential cost between the more
costly method of treatment and the less costly method of treatment. Such costs
shall only be assessed upon approval of the Village Board. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-
2023)
9-3-5-6: RIGHT OF REVISION:
   A.   The Village reserves the right to establish, by ordinance or in
Wastewater Discharge Permits or general permits, more stringent limitations or
requirements on discharges to the POTW consistent with the purpose of this
chapter. The specific limitations on discharge listed in Section
9-3-5-5 are derived from the Maximum Allowable Industrial Loading (MAIL)
calculation. The MAILs are allocated only to those IUs, at the Village's
discretion, that contribute the regulated pollutant and all remaining IUs are
held to either the background concentration or slightly higher than background
but lower than the specific discharge limit. In no case shall the total of all
allocations exceed the MAIL.
   B.   The Village will maintain a reserve of the maximum allowable headworks
pollutant loading for each pollutant for new industries or increase with
existing industries. The Village will recalculate the maximum concentrations
from time to time using site specific data taking into consideration revisions
to State and Federal regulations that may impact the calculations. (Ord. 2023-
34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-5-7: MONITORING FACILITIES:
   A.   Sampling Manhole Applicability.
      1.   All Non-Residential Users are required to install a sampling manhole
for each separate discharge in the building sewer in accordance with the plans
and specifications approved by the Village and Section
9-3-3-6.
         a.   When required by the Village, a SIU or NSRU, that does not have a
unique sampling chamber at end-of-pipe, shall install a monitoring manhole or
sampling chamber for use as the regulation location of local limits in the
building sewer in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the
Village.
         b.   When required by the Village, a Categorical Industrial User shall
install a monitoring manhole or sampling chamber for use as the regulation
location of the categorically regulated discharge in the building sewer in
accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Village. This sampling
chamber may be required to be installed within the building and may be in
addition to an end-of-pipe manhole.
      2.   The Village reserves the right to apply said local limits in Section
9-3-5-5.A and B at an end-of process discharge location that connects to the
POTW sewer system in the event that:
         a.   A unique sampling manhole at end-of-pipe is not available;
         b.   A more representative sample can be taken of a process batch
discharge even though an end-of-pipe manhole exists;
         c.   A more representative sample can be taken at the end-of-process
location than the end-of-pipe location as a result of impacts from dilute
wastestreams;
         d.   An end-of process location is used because the user is unable to
provide adequate flow documentation to use a combined waste stream formula.
      3.   In the event that a suitable sampling manhole does not exist as per
Section
9-3-5-7 and no end-of-process discharge sampling location exists, the "sampling
facility" shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the
public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected.
   B.   Wastewater Monitoring and/or Flow Measurement Facility Operation and
Maintenance
      1.   Such facilities will be installed and maintained at all times at the
user's expense. The failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good
working order shall not be grounds for the user to claim that the sample
results are unrepresentative of its discharge. Installation will be consistent
with the requirements of Section
9-3-3-6.
      2.   The manhole or chamber located on a building sewer discharge located
in dedicated easements shall be easily accessible to representatives of the
Village twenty-four (24) hours per day, seven (7) days per week.
      3.   The manhole or chamber at a discharge location within the building
shall be accessible to representatives of the Village during normal user
operating hours.
      4.   Metered water supply may be used to determine wastewater flow if it
is substantiated to the Village that the metered water supply and wastewater
quantities are approximately the same, or where an adjustment agreed to by the
Village is made in the metered water supply to determine wastewater flow which
is documented through the use of sub-meters and/or production records. In the
event that the wastewater flow cannot be substantiated at any regulated
location, the user will be required to install flow monitoring consistent with
Section
9-3-3-6.
      5.   The sampling chamber, flow metering device, sampling equipment and
documentation of the frequency of sampling, sampling methods and analysis of
samples shall be subject, at any reasonable time, to inspection by the Village.
(Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-5-8: MONITORING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Applicability. At minimum, all Significant Industrial Users (SIU)
including Categorical Industrial Users (CIU) as well as Non-Significant
Regulated Users (NSRU) are required to sample based on the Village monitoring
frequency as stated in the wastewater discharge permit. Other users are
required to sample upon the request of the Village. The users shall pay the
costs of sampling of its discharge and the costs of analyses of its samples,
whether or not the sampling and analyses are done by the user or by the POTW.
   B.   Frequency
      1.   All Significant Industrial Users (SIU) including Categorical
Industrial Users (CIU) with wastewater discharge permits must sample their
effluent consistent with the permit requirements and report the results to the
POTW at least once per year. The Village may specify more frequent reporting,
semi-annual, quarterly or monthly, dependent of the frequency for those
parameters specified in the user's permit and the Village monitoring frequency
defined in the Village's Enforcement Response Plan. The SIU may have the
Village conduct routine monitoring using an independent laboratory. Sampling
visits of this type will normally be unannounced.
      2.   Any Non-Significant Regulated Users (NSRU) with an individual or
general wastewater discharge permit shall sample their effluent and report the
results to the POTW consistent with the requirements of the wastewater
discharge permit and the Village monitoring frequency.
      3.   Hauled Waste or batch discharges that have been approved by the DPW
will have sampling and analysis defined in an individual Wastewater Discharge
permit.
      4.   The Village shall have the right to perform its own sampling at any
time at any location.
      5.   The Village may resample a FSE within thirty (30) calendar days when
a violation of the twenty-five percent (25%) requirement as defined in Section
9-3-5-5.D is identified.
      6.   The Village may initiate sampling and analyses at a greater
frequency as a result of a violation of any discharge permit limit, including
cases where hot spot maintenance issues or blockage to the sanitary sewer
system has occurred.
   C.   Sample Collection:
      1.   Samples collected to satisfy reporting requirements must be based on
data obtained through appropriate sampling and analysis performed during the
period covered by the report, based on data that is representative of
conditions occurring during the entire sampling and reporting period as defined
in the wastewater discharge permit.
      2.   Except as indicated in Subsections C.3 and C.5 below, the user must
collect wastewater samples using flow proportional composite collection
techniques.
      3.   In the event flow proportional sampling is infeasible, the
Pretreatment Coordinator may authorize the use of time proportional sampling at
minimum collecting samples every fifteen (15) minutes during a twenty-four
(24)-hour workday; or a minimum of four (4) grab samples where the user
demonstrates that this will provide a representative sample of the effluent
being discharged. A proportional number of samples shall be collected for
wastewater discharges less than twenty-four (24) hours.
      4.   Single grab samples may be required in the event of an infrequent
batch discharge or to show compliance with instantaneous discharge limits.
      5.   Samples for fats, oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide,
hexavalent chromium, phenols, sulfides, and volatile organic compounds must be
obtained using the number of grab samples necessary to assess and assure
compliance with applicable Pretreatment Standards and Requirements. Multiple
grab samples that are individually preserved as specified in 40 CFR 136 and
appropriate USEPA guidance that are collected during a 24-hour period may be
composited prior to the analysis, as follows:
         a.   For, cyanide, hexavalent chromium, phenols, and sulfides:
multiple grab samples may be composited in the laboratory or in the field;
         b.   For volatile organics and oil and grease: multiple grab samples
may only be composited in the laboratory.
      6.   Composite samples for other parameters unaffected by the compositing
procedures as documented in approved EPA methodologies may be authorized by the
Village, as appropriate.
   D.   Cost: The cost of Village sampling and analyses for any monitoring will
be invoiced to the applicable User. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-5-9: ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS:
All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, to be submitted as part
of a wastewater discharge permit application or report shall be performed in
accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 CFR Part 136, unless otherwise
specified in an applicable Categorical Pretreatment Standard. If 40 CFR Part
136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the pollutant in
question, or where the USEPA determines that the Part 136 sampling and
analytical techniques are inappropriate for the pollutant in question, sampling
and analyses shall be performed using validated analytical methods or any other
applicable sampling and analytical procedures, including procedures suggested
by the Pretreatment Coordinator or other parties approved by USEPA. (Ord. 2023-
34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-5-10: PROTECTION OF VILLAGE SAMPLING AND FLOW METERING EQUIPMENT FROM
DAMAGE:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which
is owned or contracted by the Village. Any person violating this provision
shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct. (Ord.
2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-6:  GENERAL DISCHARGE COMPLIANCE:
9-3-6-1: APPLICABILITY:
Each non-residential user that discharges non-residential source waste shall
provide wastewater treatment and Best Management Practices as necessary to
comply with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all Categorical
Pretreatment Standards, local limits, and the prohibitions set out in Section
9-3-5 within the time limitations specified by USEPA, the State, or the
Pretreatment Coordinator, whichever is more stringent. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-
2023)
9-3-6-2: PRETREATMENT FACILITIES:
Any pretreatment facilities necessary for compliance shall be provided,
operated, and maintained at the user's expense. Detailed plans describing such
facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the Pretreatment
Coordinator for review, and shall be acceptable to the Pretreatment Coordinator
before such facilities are constructed. The review of such plans and operating
procedures shall in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of
modifying such facilities as necessary to produce a discharge acceptable to the
Village under the provisions of this chapter.
All non-residential users are required to comply with IEPA permitting
requirements. Non-residential users shall obtain all necessary construction-
operating permits from the IEPA prior to the Village connection and/or
discharge permit(s) being issued. IEPA will make the determination of actual
permitting requirements based on changes in the wastewater volume or
characteristics generated at the user site. The Village will track and parallel
this IEPA permitting process. No sources of non-residential wastewater will be
allowed to discharge to Village POTW until all permitting requirements have
been satisfied. Such pretreatment facilities shall be under the control and
direction of an IEPA-certified wastewater operator.
Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation
shall be reported to the Village and IEPA prior to the non-residential user's
initiation of the changes. Non-residential users shall obtain all additional
construction-operating permits from IEPA and the Village for the changes prior
to discharge. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-6-3: ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT MEASURES:
At minimum, the Village may require the additional pretreatment measures
defined below. The Village reserves the right to make unannounced inspections
of any additional pretreatment measures during normal business hours whether
the non-residential user has been issued an individual or general wastewater
discharge permit or not.
   A.   Whenever deemed necessary, the Pretreatment Coordinator may require
non-residential users to restrict their discharge during peak flow periods,
designate that certain wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers,
relocate and/or consolidate points of discharge, separate sewage waste streams
from industrial waste streams, and such other conditions as may be necessary to
protect the POTW and determine the non-residential user's compliance with the
requirements of this chapter.
   B.   The Pretreatment Coordinator may require any person or non-residential
user discharging into the POTW to install and maintain, on their property and
at their expense, a suitable storage and flow-control facility to ensure
equalization of flow. The Village may issue an individual or general wastewater
discharge permit solely for flow equalization.
   C.   Non-residential users with the potential to discharge flammable
substances may be required to install and maintain an approved combustible gas
detection meter.
   D.   Grease Interceptor (GI) maintenance. A GI located inside an FSE will be
inspected and cleaned weekly. A GI located outside an FSE on its property shall
be inspected and the grease cap and solids blanket minimally cleaned every
three months; the entire contents of the trap cleaned annually; and the GI
repaired regularly, as needed, by the Owner at his expense. Logs of inspection
and cleaning are to be posted in a readily accessible location of the facility.
It shall be the responsibility of the FSE to inspect its GI during the pumping
procedure to ensure the trap is properly cleaned out and that all fittings and
fixtures inside the trap are in working condition and functioning properly. In
the event that actual operations of the GI fail to produce results that
consistently prevent prohibitive discharges, as defined in Section
9-3-5-2, or fail to meet local limits, as defined in Section
9-3-5-5, the Owner of the FSE will be required by the DPW to have the GI
cleaned at a more frequent rate or install or modify pretreatment as necessary.
   E.   GI Cleaning Cycle Waiver. The GI Owner or operator may petition the
Pretreatment Coordinator to reduce the cleaning and servicing of the GI from
every three (3) months to a maximum of every six (6) months upon demonstration
that the amount removed every three months is significantly less than the
twenty-five percent (25%) requirement for the basin capacity, as defined in
Section
9-3-5-5.D, and that the discharge does not exceed the Oil and Grease Action
Level at a downstream sampling location. The GI Owner or operator will be
required to submit data sufficient to document to the Pretreatment Coordinator
that the Twenty-five percent (25%) requirement can be maintained using a longer
cleaning cycle. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-6-4: BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP) PLAN:
   A.   FSE's are required to develop, implement and maintain Best Management
Practices (BMP) plans that include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Proper storage of unused cooking oil;
      2.   Segregation, collection, and proper storage of waste cooking oil;
      3.   Disposal of food waste into the trash or garbage disposal;
      4.   Installation of drain screens;
      5.   Wipe-up grease spills before using water;
      6.   Employee training within ninety (90) days of initiation and twice
each calendar year thereafter;
      7.   Grease Interceptor maintenance;
      8.   Kitchen exhaust filter maintenance;
      9.   Record keeping requirements;
      10.   Notifications required for spills or slug loads changes; and
      11.   Notices and signage advising employees in the language used in the
kitchen.
   All FSE's that meet the criteria defined in Section
9-3-6-1 are required to develop and implement a BMP Plan regardless whether
such FSE are regulated by a wastewater discharge permit or not.
   B.   Each FSE meeting the criteria in Section
9-3-6-1 is to provide ready documentation as follows that the provisions of the
BMP Plan are being implemented:
      1.   Specifics of documentation:
         a.   Site diagram showing location of all containers holding unused or
spent yellow grease;
         b.   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental
discharge to storm or sanitary sewers. Such procedures include, but are not
limited to, inspection and maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer
of materials, loading and unloading operations, control of plant site runoff,
worker training and building of containment structures or equipment;
         c.   Location of Notice/Signs posted in conspicuous places advising
employees in English and the language of common use whom to call in the event
of a spill, accidental discharge of prohibited materials, slug discharge or a
bypass of any part of a pretreatment system; and
         d.   Off-site emergency (twenty-four (24)-hour) telephone number, and
backup telephone number.
      2.   Notification Procedure. The BMP Plan shall contain procedures for
immediately notifying the Pretreatment Coordinator of any accidental or slug
discharge of any raw materials or recycled oil to either the sanitary or storm
sewer consistent with the requirements in Section
9-3-9-7.
   C.   The City may require the submittal of BMP Plans and documentation of
procedures required in this Section. Review of such plans and documentation of
procedures by the Village shall not relieve the user from the responsibility to
modify the user's facility or BMP Plan and procedures as necessary to meet all
requirements of this Section. Review by the Village does not constitute an
approval of a BMP Plan and procedures, and the Village and its designee(s) are
not to be construed as responsible for the actions of the user and any impacts
the user may cause as a result of a spill or slug discharge. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-
24-2023)
9-3-6-5: ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE AND SLUG CONTROL PLAN:
   A.   A non-residential user who is determined to have the potential for
accidental discharge of toxic materials or other prohibited discharges shall,
within sixty (60) days of written notification by the DPW; develop, implement
and maintain Best Management Practices in the form of an Accidental Discharge
and Slug Control Plan hereafter referred to as Spill Plan, should that user
have:
      1.   Chemicals (raw materials, chemical intermediates, wastes to be
recycled, final products, or utility chemicals) that total or exceed two
hundred and fifty (250) gallons at or on its site;
      2.   Prohibited Discharge Materials as defined in Section
9-3-5-2 at or on its site; or
      3.   Hazardous Waste as defined in Section
9-3-9-9 at or on its site; or
      4.   Been defined by the Pretreatment Coordinator to have a need to
control slug discharges.
   All Non-Residential Users that meet the above criteria are required to
develop and implement a Spill Plan regardless whether that user is regulated by
a discharge permit or not.
   B.   The Spill Plan which is required to be submitted to the Village for
review if the non-residential user's discharge is regulated shall address, at a
minimum, the following:
      1.   Specifics of Spill Plan:
         a.   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
         b.   Description of stored chemicals, including quantity of chemicals
and type and number of storage containers;
         c.   Site diagram showing location of all tanks holding greater than
or equal to two hundred and fifty (250) gallons or areas containing eight (8)
drums or more of raw materials, prohibited wastes, wastes to be recycled,
hazardous wastes or final product. Identification and location of all liquid
materials is mandatory;
         d.   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response. Building containment structures or production equipment changes are
considered procedures to prevent adverse spills. If containment structures are
connected to the sanitary sewer, a valve normally left in a closed position is
required;
         e.   Location of Notice/Signs posted in conspicuous places advising
employees in English and the language of common use whom to call in the event
of a spill, accidental discharge of prohibited materials, slug discharge or a
bypass of any part of a pretreatment system; and
         f.   Emergency telephone number (24-hour) off-site and backup
telephone number. If the Spill Plan has been submitted, any change in the
telephone numbers should be submitted within five working days when revised.
      2.   Notification Procedure. The Spill Plan shall contain procedures for
immediately notifying the Pretreatment Coordinator of any accidental or slug
discharge, as required by Section
9-3-9-7;
      3.   Documentation. The Spill Plan shall contain a sample of the
documentation maintained at the site that:
         a.   Ensures that all employees who are in a position to cause,
discover, or observe such discharge are advised of the emergency notification
procedures; and
         b.   Such logs to verify inspection and maintenance procedures to
prevent adverse impacts and confirm that said procedures are being performed on
a regular basis. At minimum, logs are required to verify valves in containment
structures, if present, are closed.
   C.   Review of such Spill Plans and operating procedures by the Village
shall not relieve the user from the responsibility to modify the user's
facility or Spill Plan as necessary to meet all requirements of this chapter.
Review by the Village does not constitute an approval of a spill plan and the
Village and its designee(s) are not to be construed as responsible for the
actions of the user and any impacts the user may cause as a result of a spill
or slug load.
   D.   At least once every two (2) years the Pretreatment Coordinator shall
evaluate whether each Significant Industrial User needs a revision to its Spill
Plan. The Pretreatment Coordinator may require any non-residential user to
submit at a frequency less than two (2) years such Spill Plan or require
modification of an existing Spill Plan based on changes that have occurred at
the site or in response to an incident that had the potential to impact the
POTW.
   In alternate years, the Pretreatment Coordinator shall evaluate whether each
Non-Significant Regulated User is required to file a revision to its Spill Plan
based on changes that have occurred at the site or in response to an incident
that had the potential to impact the POTW. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-6-6: CLOSURE PLAN:
   A.   Any Non-Residential User meeting the requirements of Section
9-3-6-5.A including but not limited to those with wastewater discharge permits
that determines it will cease operations permanently, or if some of the
processes that classify the non-residential user as significant are closed, the
user shall file a written closure plan with the Village. The closure plan shall
be submitted 10 working days prior to the initiation of the plan and shall
contain, at a minimum, the following:
      1.   A description of each wastewater generating process that will be
closed;
      2.   A description of how the facility will be closed and the extent of
operations during the closure period;
      3.   An inventory and estimate of the volume of all process wastewater,
chemicals, and hazardous waste on site. A description of the methods for
disposal, including procedures for removing, transporting, treating, storing,
or disposing of all waste and identifying all off-site waste management
facilities to be used;
      4.   A schedule of the closure activities indicating the time required to
complete each closure step; and
      5.   Additional monitoring scheduled that will identify compliance with
Pretreatment Standards during the closure operations. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-7: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND APPLICATION:
9-3-7-1: WASTEWATER INFORMATION AND ANALYSIS:
When requested by the Pretreatment Coordinator, a non-residential user must
submit information on the nature and characteristics of its wastewater within
thirty (30) calendar days of the request. The Pretreatment Coordinator is
authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may periodically require non-
residential users to update this information. The Pretreatment Coordinator may
also prepare specialized forms for various business types and functions.
Information that may be required will be consistent with that identified in
Section
9-3-4 and Section
9-3-7-5. Hauled waste is permitted under the provisions of Sections
9-3-7-2 and
9-3-7-8. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-7-2: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT AUTHORITY AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit issued to Significant Industrial
Users (SIUs) which includes Categorical Industrial Users (CIUs). No SIU,
including any CIU, shall discharge wastewater to the POTW without first
obtaining an individual Wastewater Discharge Permit from the Pretreatment
Coordinator except that a SIU, including any CIU, that has filed a timely
application pursuant to this chapter may continue to discharge for the time
period specified therein.
   B.   General Wastewater Discharge Permit issued to SIU and CIU. At the
discretion of the Pretreatment Coordinator, the Village may use general
Wastewater Discharge Permits to control SIU or CIU discharges to the POTW if
the following conditions are met:
      1.   Involve the same or substantially similar types of operations;
      2.   Discharge the same types of waste;
      3.   Require the same effluent limitations or Best Management Practices;
      4.   Require the same or similar monitoring and/or reporting
requirements; and
      5.   In the opinion of the Pretreatment Coordinator, are more
appropriately controlled under a general permit than under individual
Wastewater Discharge Permits.
   C.   Other Wastewater Discharge Permits. The Pretreatment Coordinator may
require other Non-Residential Users to obtain either individual or general
Wastewater Discharge Permits as necessary to carry out the purposes of this
chapter. The Wastewater Discharge Permit will define that holders of permits
issued under this section shall not be classified as SIUs. Non-Residential
Users with Wastewater Discharge Permits in this class may include but are not
limited to:
      1.   Any non-residential user that has been determined to be a Non-
Significant Categorical Industrial User as defined in Section
9-3-1-6;
      2.   Any non-residential user that has been determined not to be a SIU as
defined in Section
9-3-1-6 that the Pretreatment Coordinator requires to be regulated by
Wastewater Discharge Permit;
      3.   Any non-residential user subject to National Categorical
Pretreatment Standards that opts not to discharge pollutants shall obtain a
Zero Process Wastewater Discharge Permit;
      4.   Any non-residential user that is a non-Categorical Zero Process
Wastewater Discharger that the Pretreatment Coordinator determines shall be
permitted;
      5.   Non-Significant Regulated Users (NSRU) as defined below.
         a.   NSRU that discharge a process wastewater flow greater than or
equal to one half (0.5) percent of the POTW's design dry-weather hydraulic
capacity, or five thousand (5,000) gallons per day, whichever is smaller ;
         b.   NSRU that discharge more than or equal to one half (0.5) percent
of the design dry-weather organic treatment capacity of the POTW ;
         c.   NSRU that discharge one half (0.5) percent of the maximum
allowable headworks loading for any pollutant regulated by a local limit
developed in accordance with Section
9-3-5-5; or
         d.   NSRU that intermittently discharge any individual batch or
batches that would meet the criteria in 1, 2, or 3 above when discharged or
otherwise has the potential to discharge a slug load to the POTW;
      6.   Non-Residential Users that have devices installed to remove oils,
grease and sand;
      7.   Food Service Establishments (FSE);
      8.   Trucked waste and
      9.   Non-Residential Users required to eliminate or control specified
pollutants from their wastestream through the development and implementation of
a Best Management Practice (BMP) Plan.
   D.   Any violation of the terms and conditions of an individual or general
Wastewater Discharge Permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and
subject the wastewater discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in Sections
9-3-13 through
9-3-15. Obtaining an individual or general Wastewater Discharge Permit does not
relieve a permittee of its obligation to comply with all Federal and State
Pretreatment Standards or Requirements or with any other requirements of
Federal, State, and local law. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-7-3: INDIVIDUAL AND GENERAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING: EXISTING
CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Any SIU or CIU required to obtain an individual or general Wastewater
Discharge Permit who was discharging wastewater into the POTW prior to the
effective date of this chapter and who wishes to continue such discharges in
the future, shall, within ninety (90) calendar days after said date, apply to
the Pretreatment Coordinator for the appropriate wastewater discharge permit in
accordance with Section 9-3-7-5, and shall not cause or allow discharges to the
POTW to continue after one hundred and eighty (180) calendar days of the
effective date of this chapter except in accordance with a Wastewater Discharge
Permit issued by the Pretreatment Coordinator.
   B.   Any non-SIU or non-CIU that is required to obtain individual or general
Wastewater Discharge Permits shall file an application not less than ninety
(90) calendar days or within the time frame required in a notification sent by
the Pretreatment Coordinator.
   C.   General Permits for Food Service Establishments. No person shall
discharge, or cause to discharge any wastewater from FSE directly or indirectly
into the sewer system without first obtaining a FSE Wastewater Discharge
Permit. The Village will implement the FSE permit process by issuing a survey
provided by Section
9-3-4 specific to FSE. The survey will serve as the discharge application. Any
FSE that submits a survey in the timeframe required by the Village will be
deemed to have complied with the permit requirements during the implementation
of this program. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-7-4: INDIVIDUAL AND GENERAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITTING: NEW
CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Any CIU who proposes to begin or recommence discharging into the POTW
must obtain such permit prior to the beginning or recommencing of such
discharge. An application for this individual or general Wastewater Discharge
Permit, in accordance with Section
9-3-7-5, must be filed at least ninety (90) calendar days prior to the date
upon which any discharge will begin or recommence pending review by the
Pretreatment Coordinator.
   B.   Any non-CIU who proposes to begin or recommence discharging into the
POTW that is required to obtain an individual or general Wastewater Discharge
Permit must obtain such permit prior to the beginning or recommencing of such
discharge or operations in the case of a zero process discharger, in accordance
with Section
9-3-7-5. An application for this individual or general Wastewater Discharge
Permit must be filed at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to the date upon
which any discharge or operations will begin or recommence pending review by
the Pretreatment Coordinator.
   C.   An FSE that propose new connections are required to obtain a general
FSE Discharge Permit in accordance with Section 9-3-7-5. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-
2023)
9-3-7-5: INDIVIDUAL AND GENERAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPLICATION
CONTENTS:
   A.   Individual Application Requirement. All non-residential users required
to obtain an Individual Wastewater Discharge Permit or Zero Process Wastewater
Discharge Permit must submit a permit application. Incomplete or inaccurate
applications will not be processed and will be returned to the user for
revision.
   B.   Individual Application Contents. The Pretreatment Coordinator may
require all non-residential users to submit as part of an application all or
some of the following information:
      1.   All information required by Sections
9-3-4-1,
9-3-4-3 and
9-3-4-4;
      2.   Identifying and contact information for the site including name and
address of the facility, the name of the operator and owner as well as contact
information for the Authorized Representative and daily on-site contact.
      3.   Description of Operations.
         a.   A brief description of the nature of the activities, services,
production, and plant processes on the premises. Include each product produced
by type, amount, process or processes, and a general rate of production.
         b.   Number and type of employees, hours of operation, and proposed or
actual hours of operation;
         c.   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day) including a list of all raw materials and chemicals used or stored at
the facility which are, or could accidentally or intentionally be, discharged
to the POTW;
      4.   Time and duration of discharges with an estimate of the average
daily and maximum flow;
      5.   Waste Characteristics. Information showing the nature and
concentration of the discharge in relation to applicable pretreatment standards
and local limits;
      6.   Requests for a monitoring waiver for a pollutant regulated as a
Categorical Pretreatment neither present nor expected to be present in the
discharge based on 40 CFR 403.12(e)(2). Representative sampling and analysis
will be required to substantiate the request;
      7.   Plans and Diagrams
         a.   Site plans/floor plans that show the footprint of the building
with an outline of major equipment similar to an emergency exit plan;
         b.   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans, and
details to show all sewers, floor drains, and appurtenances by size, location
and elevation, and all points of discharge;
         c.   A diagram showing the location for monitoring the discharge of
all wastes covered by the permit; and
      8.   Any other information as may be deemed necessary by the Pretreatment
Coordinator to evaluate the Wastewater Discharge Permit application.
   C.   General Application Requirement. The Pretreatment Coordinator may
require all non-residential users that are required to obtain a general
Wastewater Discharge Permit to submit an application on a form provided by the
Village which is specific to the category regulated by the general Wastewater
Discharge Permit. The form may require but is not limited to contact
information, production processes, the types of wastes generated, and the
location for monitoring all wastes if regulated by the general permit. Where
the standard will require compliance with a BMP or pollution prevention
alternative, the non-residential user shall submit documentation as required by
the Pretreatment Coordinator.
   D.   General Application Requirement for Food Service Establishments (FSE).
The Pretreatment Coordinator may require all FSE that are required to obtain a
general Wastewater Discharge Permit to submit an application on a form provided
by the Village which is specific to FSE. The form may require but is not
limited to contact information, general business information; facility
operation; kitchen fixtures; fats, oil and grease handling, kitchen clean-up
and water usage, grease interceptor or alternatives used, and sampling
locations. The Village requires FSE to comply with a BMP and the FSE shall
submit documentation as required by the Pretreatment Coordinator.
   E.   General Application for Waste Haulers - The Pretreatment Coordinator
may require waste haulers that are required to obtain a Wastewater Discharge
Permit to submit an application on a form provided by the Village. The form may
require but is not limited to contact information, truck identification, names
and addresses of sources of waste, volume and characteristics of the waste,
type of industry, known or suspected waste constituents, and whether any wastes
are RCRA hazardous wastes.
   F.   Categorical Monitoring Waivers
      1.   Authority. Pursuant to 40 CFR Part 403.12(e)(2)(v) and (vi), the
Village may authorize an Industrial User subject to a Categorical Pretreatment
Standard to forego sampling of a pollutant regulated by a Categorical
Pretreatment Standard if the non-residential user has demonstrated through
sampling and other technical factors that the pollutant is neither present nor
expected to be present in the discharge, or is present only at background
levels from intake water and without any increase in the pollutant due to
activities of the non-residential user. This waiver is not available to non-
residential users whose concentration standards are derived from mass standards
or production based standards. This authorization is subject to the following
conditions:
         a.   The waiver may be authorized where a pollutant is determined to
be present solely due to sanitary wastewater discharged from the facility
provided that the sanitary wastewater is not regulated by an applicable
Categorical Pretreatment Standard and otherwise includes no process wastewater.
         b.   The monitoring waiver is valid only for the duration of the
effective period of the individual Wastewater Discharge Permit, but in no case
longer than five (5) years. The non-residential user must submit a new request
for the waiver before the waiver can be granted for each subsequent individual
Wastewater Discharge Permit.
         c.   This provision does not supersede certification processes and
requirements established in Categorical Pretreatment Standards, except as
otherwise specified in the Categorical Pretreatment Standard.
      2.   Application Requirements
         a.   In making a demonstration that a pollutant is not present, the
non-residential user must provide data from at least one sampling of the
facility's process wastewater prior to any treatment present at the facility
that is representative of all wastewater from all processes.
         b.   The request for a monitoring waiver must be signed in accordance
with Section 9-3-7-6, and include the certification statement in Section
9-3-7-6.
         c.   Non-detectable sample results may be used only as a demonstration
that a pollutant is not present if the EPA approved method from 40 CFR Part 136
with the lowest minimum detection level for that pollutant was used in the
analysis.
      3.   Documentation and Record Retention for CIU Monitoring Waivers:
   Any grant of the monitoring waiver by the Pretreatment Coordinator must be
included as a condition in the non-residential user's permit. The reasons
supporting the waiver and any information submitted by the non-residential user
in its request for the waiver must be maintained by the Pretreatment
Coordinator for 3 years after expiration of the waiver.
   Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and will be
returned to the non-residential user for revision. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-7-6: INDIVIDUAL AND GENERAL APPLICATION SIGNATORIES AND CERTIFICATION:
   A.   All Wastewater Discharge Permit applications, non-residential user
reports and certification statements must be signed by an Authorized
Representative of the user and contain the following certification statement:
      “I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations.”
   B.   If the designation of an Authorized Representative is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new written authorization satisfying the
requirements of this Section must be submitted to the Pretreatment Coordinator
prior to or together with any reports to be signed by an Authorized
Representative. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-7-7: INDIVIDUAL AND GENERAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT DECISIONS:
The Pretreatment Coordinator will evaluate the data furnished by the non-
residential user and may require additional information. Within thirty (30)
calendar days of receipt of a complete Wastewater Discharge Permit application,
the Pretreatment Coordinator will determine whether or not to issue a
Wastewater Discharge Permit. The Pretreatment Coordinator may deny any
application for a Wastewater Discharge Permit. If the Pretreatment Coordinator
fails to act within ninety (90) calendar days, a request for permit application
shall be deemed to be denied. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-7-8: INTERMITTENT DISCHARGES AND CLEAN-UPS:
   A.   No person, firm or corporation shall discharge atypical waste,
contaminated waters from any non-domestic source or special waste or leachate
on an intermittent or one-time basis without first obtaining a connection
permit and Wastewater Discharge Permit as provided in Sections
9-3-3-3 and
9-3-7-2, respectively. The request to discharge and project description shall
be submitted on a form provided by the Village. In the event that such waste
will be hauled to a discharge point designated by the Village, the discharger
shall also comply with the provisions of Section
9-3-7-5.E.
   B.   An evaluation by the Village shall be made to determine provisions
necessary to prevent the introduction of pollutants to the wastewater treatment
system which could:
      1.   Cause injury, interference or otherwise be incompatible with the
system or the use or disposal of biosolids;
      2.   Constitute a hazard to humans, animals or the environment; and/or
      3.   Cause pass-through of pollutants into the receiving waters or the
atmosphere.
   Provisions may include site specific discharge rates, unique standards -
either concentration or mass based or both, special monitoring and/or
pretreatment requirements. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-8: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT ISSUANCE PROCESS:
9-3-8-1: INDIVIDUAL AND GENERAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT DURATION:
   A.   An individual Wastewater Discharge Permit shall be issued for a
specified time period, not to exceed five (5) years from the effective date of
the permit. An individual Wastewater Discharge Permit may be issued for a
period less than five (5) years, at the discretion of the Pretreatment
Coordinator. Each individual Wastewater Discharge Permit will indicate a
specific date upon which it will expire.
   B.   A general Wastewater Discharge Permit shall be issued for a specific
time period, not to exceed five (5) years from the effective date of the
permit. The Village will identify in the individual or general Wastewater
Discharge Permit whether or not the permittee is defined as a Significant
Industrial User.
   C.   A general FSE Discharge Permit (FSEP) may be issued for a specified
time period, not to exceed three (3) years from the effective date of the
permit. Each FSEP will indicate a specific date upon which it will expire.
   D.   The Pretreatment Coordinator may extend a permit issued under Section
9-3-8-1 A, B or C above with a duration of less than five (5) years to a
maximum of five (5) years upon written notification. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-8-2: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT CONTENTS:
A Wastewater Discharge Permit shall include such conditions as are deemed
reasonably necessary by the Pretreatment Coordinator to prevent pass through or
interference, protect the quality of the water body receiving the POTW's
effluent, protect worker health and safety, facilitate biosolids management and
disposal, and protect against damage to the POTW.
   A.   Individual and General Wastewater Discharge Permits must contain:
      1.   A statement that indicates Wastewater Discharge Permit issuance
date, expiration date and effective date;
      2.   A statement that the Wastewater Discharge Permit is nontransferable
without prior notification to the Village in accordance with Section 9-3-8-5,
and provisions for furnishing the new owner or operator with a copy of the
existing Wastewater Discharge Permit;
      3.   Effluent limits, including Best Management Practices, based on
applicable Pretreatment Standards;
      4.   Requirements to control accidental spills and slug discharges, if
determined by the Pretreatment Coordinator to be necessary;
      5.   Self-monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and record-
keeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification of
pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency, and sample
type based on Federal, State, and local law; and
      6.   A statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for violation
of Pretreatment Standards and Requirements, and any applicable compliance
schedule. Such schedule may not extend the time for compliance beyond that
required by applicable Federal, State, or local law.
   B.   An individual Wastewater Discharge Permit must contain the process for
seeking a waiver from monitoring for a pollutant neither present nor expected
to be present in the discharge in accordance with Section
9-3-7-5.F. Any grant of the monitoring waiver by the Pretreatment Coordinator
shall be included as a condition of the non-residential user's permit.
   C.   Individual and General Wastewater Discharge Permits may contain, but
need not be limited to, the following conditions:
      1.   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge, and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      2.   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control, or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to equalize, reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into
the POTW;
      3.   Requirements that allow the use of bypass of the pretreatment system
conditions consistent with 40 CFR 403.17 and Section
9-3-16-3;
      4.   Requirements for the development and implementation of Accidental
Discharge and Slug Control Plan or other special conditions including
management practices necessary to adequately prevent accidental, unanticipated,
or non-routine discharges;
      5.   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to reduce
the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
      6.   Development and implementation of Best Management Practices Plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW if the categorical
standards do not already require the implementation of a Best Management
Practices Plan;
      7.   The unit charge for the management of the wastewater discharged to
the POTW;
      8.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment;
      9.   Requirements for the zero discharge of process waste regulated by a
National Categorical Pretreatment Standard or local standard;
      10.   Documentation of any monitoring waiver approved by the Pretreatment
Coordinator for categorically regulated pollutants found to be not present and
requirements to re-institute monitoring in the event that a waived pollutant is
found to be present or is expected to be present because of changes that occur
in the non-residential user's operation;
      11.   A statement that compliance with the Wastewater Discharge Permit
does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all
applicable Federal and State Pretreatment Standards, including those which
become effective during the term of the Wastewater Discharge Permit; and
      12.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Pretreatment
Coordinator to ensure compliance with this chapter, and State and Federal laws,
rules, and regulations.
   D.   General Permits for Food Service Establishments. The general permit for
FSE will include grease interceptor requirements with operation and maintenance
requirements. All FSE shall implement a Best Management Practices (BMP) plan in
its operation to minimize the discharge of FOG to the sewer system. Detailed
requirements for BMP plans shall be specified in the permit. This may include
but is not limited to:
      1.   Installation of drain screens;
      2.   Segregation and collection of waste cooking oil;
      3.   Disposal of food waste into the trash or Garbage;
      4.   Employee training;
      5.   Record keeping requirements;
      6.   Notifications required, and
      7.   Kitchen signage.
   If the FSE has a waiver for some aspect of the program, that waiver will be
documented in an attachment to the permit. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-8-3: INDIVIDUAL AND GENERAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT APPEALS:
The Pretreatment Coordinator shall provide public notice of the issuance of an
individual or general Wastewater Discharge Permit. Any person, including the
non-residential user, may petition the Pretreatment Coordinator to reconsider
the terms of a Wastewater Discharge Permit within thirty (30) calendar days of
notice of its issuance. The following conditions apply to Wastewater Discharge
Permit appeals:
   A.   Failure to submit a timely petition for review shall be deemed to be a
waiver of the administrative appeal.
   B.   In its petition, the appealing party must indicate the Wastewater
Discharge Permit provisions objected to, the reasons for this objection, and
the alternative condition, if any, it seeks to place in the Wastewater
Discharge Permit.
   C.   The effectiveness of the Wastewater Discharge Permit shall not be
stayed pending the appeal.
   D.   If the Pretreatment Coordinator fails to act within thirty (30)
calendar days, a request for reconsideration shall be deemed to be denied.
Decisions not to reconsider a Wastewater Discharge Permit, not to issue a
Wastewater Discharge Permit, or not to modify a Wastewater Discharge Permit
shall be considered final administrative actions for purposes of judicial
review.
   E.   Aggrieved parties seeking judicial review of the final administrative
Wastewater Discharge Permit decision must do so by filing a complaint with the
Circuit Court for DuPage County within sixty (60) calendar days. (Ord. 2023-34,
7-24-2023)
9-3-8-4: INDIVIDUAL AND GENERAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT MODIFICATION:
   A.   The Pretreatment Coordinator may modify an individual Wastewater
Discharge Permit for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following
reasons:
      1.   To incorporate any new or revised Federal, State or local
Pretreatment Standards or Requirements;
      2.   To address substantial alterations or additions to the non-
residential user's operation, processes, or wastewater volume or character
since the time of Wastewater Discharge Permit issuance;
      3.   To address introduction of a pollutant for which a monitoring waiver
had been obtained;
      4.   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
      5.   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat
to the Village's POTW, Village personnel, or the receiving waters;
      6.   Violation of any terms or condition of the Wastewater Discharge
Permit;
      7.   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the Wastewater Discharge Permit application or in any required reporting;
      8.   Revision of or a grant of variance from Categorical Pretreatment
Standards pursuant to 40 CFR 403.13;
      9.   To correct typographical or other errors in the Wastewater Discharge
Permit;
      10.   To reflect a transfer of either the facility ownership or operation
to either a new owner or operator as provided by Section
9-3-8-5; or
      11.   To reflect the issuance of a monitoring waiver.
   B.   The Pretreatment Coordinator may modify a general Wastewater Discharge
Permit for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      1.   To incorporate any new or revised Federal, State or local
Pretreatment Standards or Requirements;
      2.   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
      3.   To correct typographical or other errors in the Wastewater Discharge
Permit; or
      4.   To reflect a transfer of either the facility ownership or operation
to either a new owner or operator as provided by Section
9-3-8-5. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-8-5: INDIVIDUAL AND GENERAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT TRANSFER:
Wastewater Discharge Permits shall not be transferred, assigned, or sold to a
new owner or new non-residential user in different premises or to a new or
different operation in the same or different premises without the expressed
written approval of the Village. If the premises sold or otherwise transferred
by the permittee to a new owner who will maintain the operation in the same
premises, whether or not the seller will continue to operate the equipment or
the equipment is leased to another entity for its operation at the site of the
original permittee, then the permit held by the seller and/or owner shall be
reissued by the Village to the new owner and/or operator as a temporary permit;
provided:
   A.   The new owner and/or operator notified the Village thirty (30) calendar
days in advance of the transaction, and
   B.   The new owner and/or operator confirmed to the Village, within 5
working days of the transaction, of completion of the date of sale or execution
of an operating contract, and
   C.   The new owner and/or operator shall apply for a new permit within
ninety (90) calendar days.
Failure to provide the sale/transfer notification defined in subsection A and B
above, renders the Wastewater Discharge Permit void as of said sale and/or
transfer date. It is further provided that the temporary permit shall only be
effective for one hundred eighty (180) calendar days after the date of sale or
transfer. The Village shall have the same remedies for violation of temporary
permits as it has for violation of other Wastewater Discharge Permits. (Ord.
2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-8-6: INDIVIDUAL AND GENERAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REVOCATION:
The Pretreatment Coordinator may revoke an individual or general Wastewater
Discharge Permit for good cause, including, but not limited to, the following
reasons:
   A.   Failure to notify the Pretreatment Coordinator of substantial changes
to the wastewater prior to the changed discharge;
   B.   Failure to provide prior notification to the Pretreatment Coordinator
of changed conditions pursuant to Sections
9-3-9-5 and
9-3-9-6;
   C.   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts in
the Wastewater Discharge Permit application;
   D.   Falsifying self-monitoring reports and certification statements;
   E.   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
   F.   Refusing to allow the Pretreatment Coordinator and designee(s) timely
access to the facility premises and records;
   G.   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
   H.   Failure to pay fines;
   I.   Failure to pay sewer charges;
   J.   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
   K.   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the Wastewater Discharge
Permit application;
   L.   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of business or
operation ownership of a permitted facility; or
   M.   Violation of any Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, or any terms of
the Wastewater Discharge Permit or this chapter.
Wastewater Discharge Permits shall be voidable upon cessation of operations or
transfer of business or operation ownership. All Wastewater Discharge Permits
issued to a particular non-residential user are void upon the issuance of a new
Wastewater Discharge Permit to that non-residential user. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-
2023)
9-3-8-7: INDIVIDUAL AND GENERAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT RE-ISSUANCE:
A non-residential user with an expiring Wastewater Discharge Permit shall apply
for Wastewater Discharge Permit re-issuance by submitting a complete Wastewater
Discharge Permit application, in accordance with Section
9-3-7-5, a minimum of ninety (90) calendar days prior to the expiration of the
non-residential user's existing Wastewater Discharge Permit. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-
24-2023)
9-3-8-8: REGULATION OF WASTE RECEIVED FROM OTHER JURISDICTIONS:
   A.   If another municipality, or non-residential user located within another
municipality, contributes wastewater to the POTW, the Village shall enter into
an intergovernmental agreement with the contributing municipality.
   B.   The Village shall request the following information from the
contributing municipality at a frequency determined by the Village:
      1.   A description of the quality and volume of wastewater discharge to
the POTW by the contributing municipality;
      2.   An inventory of all non-residential users located within the
contributing municipality that are discharging to the POTW; and
      3.   Such other information as the Pretreatment Coordinator may deem
necessary.
   C.   An intergovernmental agreement, as required by paragraph A, above,
shall contain the following conditions:
      1.   A requirement for the contributing municipality to adopt a sewer use
ordinance which is at least as stringent as this chapter and local limits which
are at least as stringent as those set out in Sections
9-3-5-2 and
9-3-5-5 for the area to be served by the Village. The requirement shall specify
that such ordinance and limits must be revised as necessary to reflect changes
made to the Village's ordinance or local limits.
      2.   A requirement for the contributing municipality to submit a revised
Non-Residential User inventory at a frequency determined by the Village but
likely on an annual basis;
      3.   A provision specifying that Pretreatment implementation activities,
including Wastewater Discharge Permit issuance, inspection and sampling, and
enforcement, will be conducted by the Pretreatment Coordinator;
      4.   A requirement for the contributing municipality to provide the
Pretreatment Coordinator with access to all information that the contributing
municipality obtains as part of its pretreatment activities;
      5.   Limits on the nature, quality, and volume of the contributing
municipality's wastewater at the point where it discharges to the POTW;
      6.   Requirements for monitoring the contributing municipality's
discharge;
      7.   A provision ensuring the Pretreatment Coordinator access to the
facilities of non-residential users located within the contributing
municipality's jurisdictional boundaries for the purpose of inspection,
sampling, and any other duties deemed necessary by the Pretreatment
Coordinator; and
      8.   A provision specifying remedies available for breach of the terms of
the inter-municipal agreement. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-9: REPORTING REQUIREMENTS:
Each non-residential user of the POTW and facilities of the Village shall
provide reports as necessary to comply with this chapter and any Wastewater
Discharge Permit. Reporting requirements may apply to non-residential users
that are not required to obtain a Wastewater Discharge Permit. (Ord. 2023-34,
7-24-2023)
9-3-9-1: PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR NON-RESIDENTIAL USERS:
Should the Village find that a non-residential user does not meet Pretreatment
Standards and Requirements applicable to its discharge, causes or contributes
to a POTW potential problem, or when analysis of waste or observation of the
effect of such wastes on the POTW indicate that said wastes cannot be treated
satisfactorily at such POTW, or that said wastes are injurious to the POTW, or
to the treatment processes, or pollute the natural waters within the Village,
its service areas or the Waters of the State of Illinois; additional
Pretreatment and/or O&M will be required by the Village to meet Pretreatment
Standards and Requirements. Such facilities as the Village may deem necessary
for Pretreatment of the wastes shall be furnished by and at the expense of the
non-residential user as a condition of the discharge of said wastes into the
POTW or to any natural water within the Village service area.
   A.   Pretreatment Review: The Pretreatment Coordinator will require the non-
residential user to initiate a Pretreatment review through a telephone call,
letter or certified letter to the Authorized Representative of the user.
   B.   Pretreatment Initiation Meeting. A Pretreatment Initiation Meeting will
be held between the Pretreatment Coordinator and the non-residential user to
discuss the problem and the solution to said problem. If it determined that
changes in operation and maintenance, plant modifications, and/or the
installation of pretreatment equipment shall occur to resolve noncompliance, a
schedule shall be established with events and completion deadlines agreeable to
both parties to resolve the noncompliance. If appropriate, a Compliance
Agreement defining the agreed upon schedule will be sent from the Village to
the non-residential user shortly after the meeting. If a schedule for
compliance acceptable to the Pretreatment Coordinator cannot be established,
the matter will be referred for further enforcement action consistent with the
provisions of
9-3-13 as appropriate.
   C.   Progress Reports. Progress Reports will be filed by the non-residential
user on a schedule agreed to by the Pretreatment Coordinator and the user
concerning the completion of major events leading to the construction and
operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable Pretreatment Standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation). The user shall identify whether or not it
complied with the increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if
appropriate, the steps being taken by the user to return to the established
schedule.
   D.   Final Report. A Final Report will be filed with the Pretreatment
Coordinator by the non-residential user normally required within ninety (90)
calendar days from the end of the schedule deadline to verify the success or
failure or the schedule objective chosen by the user. The Final Report will, if
appropriate, identify the steps being taken by the user to resolve
noncompliance. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-9-2: ADDITIONAL PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USERS:
In the event that either the Village, EPA or a user determines that the user is
regulated as a Categorical Industrial User (CIU) by Standards and requirements
promulgated by the USEPA in accordance with Section 307 (b) and (c) of the Act,
the following reports are required to be filed by the user with both the
Village and USEPA.
   A.   Baseline Monitoring Reports: Within either one hundred eighty (180)
calendar days after the effective date of a Categorical Pretreatment Standard,
or the final administrative decision on a category determination under 40 CFR
403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing CIUs currently discharging to or
scheduled to discharge to the POTW shall submit to the Pretreatment Coordinator
a report which contains the information listed below. At least ninety (90)
calendar days prior to commencement of their discharge, new sources, and
sources that become CIUs subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable
categorical standard, shall submit to the Pretreatment Coordinator a report
which contains the information listed below. A new source shall report the
method of pretreatment it intends to use to meet applicable categorical
standards. A new source also shall give estimates of its anticipated flow and
quantity of pollutants to be discharged.
   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below.
      1.   Identifying Information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner.
      2.   Environmental Permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility.
      3.   Description of Operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production, (including each product produced by type, amount,
processes, and rate of production), and standard industrial classifications of
the operation(s) carried out by such user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram, which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes.
      4.   Flow Measurement. Information showing the measured average daily and
maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula set out in 40 CFR 403.6(e).
      5.   Measurements of Pollutants.
         a.   The user shall identify the Categorical Pretreatment Standards
applicable to each regulated process and any new categorically regulated
processes for existing sources;
         b.   The user shall submit the results of sampling and analysis
identifying the nature and concentration, and/or mass, where required by the
standard or by the Pretreatment Coordinator, of regulated pollutants in the
discharge from each regulated process. Instantaneous daily maximum and long-
term average concentrations, (or mass, where required) shall be reported. The
sample shall be representative of daily operations. In cases where the standard
requires a Best Management Practice or pollution prevention alternative, the
user shall submit documentation as required by the Pretreatment Coordinator or
the applicable standards to determine compliance with the standard;
         c.   The non-residential user shall take a minimum of one
representative sample to compile that data necessary to comply with the
requirements of this paragraph. A minimum of four (4) grab samples are required
for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide, and volatile organic
compounds;
         d.   Samples should be taken immediately downstream from pretreatment
facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the regulated process
if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed with the regulated
wastewater prior to pretreatment the user should measure the flows and
concentrations necessary to allow the use of the combined waste stream formula
of 40 CFR Part 403.6(e) in order to evaluate compliance with pretreatment
standards. Where an alternate concentration or mass limit has been calculated
in accordance with 40 CFR Part 403.6(e) this adjusted limit along with
supporting data shall be submitted to the Control Authority;
         e.   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in Section
9-3-5-8 and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in Section
9-3-5-9;
         f.   The Pretreatment Coordinator may allow the submission of a
baseline report which utilizes only historical data so long as the data
provides information sufficient to determine the need for industrial
pretreatment measures; and
         g.   The baseline report shall indicate the time, date and place, of
sampling, and methods of analysis, and shall certify that such sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
discharges to the Village.
      6.   Compliance Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user's
Authorized Representative of the CIU (as defined in Section
9-3-1-6), and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required for the CIU to meet the pretreatment standards and
requirements.
      7.   Compliance Schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The completion date
in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for
the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to this
section must meet the requirements set out in Section
9-3-9-2.B.
      8.   Signature and Report Certification. All baseline monitoring reports
must be signed and certified in accordance with Section
9-3-7-6.
   B.   Compliance Schedule Progress Reports: The following conditions shall
apply to the compliance schedule required by Section
9-3-9-2.A.7:
      1.   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
      2.   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine (9) calendar
months;
      3.   The user shall submit a progress report to the Pretreatment
Coordinator no later than fourteen (14) calendar days following each date in
the schedule and the final date of compliance including, as a minimum, whether
or not it complied with the increment of progress, the reason for any delay,
and, if appropriate, the steps being taken by the user to return to the
established schedule;
      4.   In no event shall more than nine (9) calendar months elapse between
such progress reports to the Pretreatment Coordinator; and
      5.   All compliance schedule progress reports must be signed and
certified in accordance with Section
9-3-7-6.
   C.   Reports On Compliance With Categorical Pretreatment Standard Deadline:
Within ninety (90) calendar days following the date for final compliance with
applicable Categorical Pretreatment Standards, or in the case of a new source
following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any
user subject to such Pretreatment Standards and Requirements shall submit to
the Pretreatment Coordinator a report containing the information described in
Section
9-3-9-2.A. For users subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits
established in accordance with the procedures in 40 CFR 403.6(c) and Section
9-3-5-3, this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the user's long-term
production rate. For all other users subject to Categorical Pretreatment
Standards expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of
production (or other measure of operation), this report shall include the
user's actual production during the appropriate sampling period. All compliance
reports must be signed and certified in accordance with Section
9-3-7-6. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-9-3: PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS/SELF-MONITORING REPORTS:
   A.   Significant Non-Categorical Industrial Users:
      1.   Significant Non-Categorical Industrial Users shall, at a frequency
determined by the Pretreatment Coordinator but in no case less than twice per
year (on dates specified by the Village) submit a report to the Village with a
description of the nature, concentration of pollutants in the discharge which
are limited by Pretreatment Standards and the measured or estimated average and
maximum daily flows for the reporting period.
      2.   These reports shall be based on sampling and analysis performed in
the period covered by the report, and performed in accordance with the
techniques described in 40 CFR part 136 and amendments thereto. All wastewater
samples must be representative of the user's discharge and comply with the
requirements of Sections
9-3-5-8 and
9-3-5-9.
      3.   All sampling and analysis may be performed by the Village in lieu of
Significant Non-Categorical Industrial User. In such cases, the Village will
issue an Attachment to the Wastewater Discharge Permit that specifies the
Village will perform sampling and analysis semi-annually at minimum.
      4.   In cases where the pretreatment standard requires compliance with a
Best Management Practice (BMP) or pollution prevention alternative, the user
must submit documentation required by the Pretreatment Coordinator or the
Pretreatment Standard necessary to determine the compliance status of the user.
      5.   Where the Village itself collects all the information required for
the report, the Significant Non-Categorical Industrial User will not be
required to submit the report.
   B.   Categorical Industrial Users:
      1.   All Industrial Users subject to categorical pretreatment standard
(CIUs) shall, at a frequency determined by the Pretreatment Coordinator but in
no case less than twice per year on dates specified by the Village (normally in
July and January), submit a report indicating the nature and concentration of
pollutants in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment standards and the
measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period.
At the discretion of the Village and in consideration of such factors as local
high or low flow rates, holidays, budget cycles, etc., the Village may agree to
alter the months during which the above reports are to be submitted. All
periodic compliance reports must be signed and certified in accordance with
Section
9-3-7-6.
      2.   These reports shall be based on sampling and analysis performed in
the period covered by the report, and performed in accordance with the
techniques described in 40 CFR part 136 and amendments thereto. All wastewater
samples must be representative of the user's discharge and comply with the
requirements of Sections
9-3-5-8 and
9-3-5-9.
      3.   This sampling and analysis may be performed by the Village in lieu
of CIU. In such cases, the Village will issue an attachment to the Wastewater
Discharge Permit that specifies the Village will perform sampling and analysis
semi-annually at minimum.
      4.   If a non-residential user subject to the reporting requirement in
this section monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the
Pretreatment Coordinator, using the procedures prescribed in Sections
9-3-5-8 and
9-3-5-9, the results of this monitoring shall be included in the report.
      5.   Where the Village has imposed mass limitations on users as provided
for by 40 CFR Part 403.6(c), the report required by paragraph B.1 of this
section shall indicate the mass of pollutants regulated by the Pretreatment
Standards in the discharge from the Industrial User.
      6.   For users subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits
established by the Village in accordance with the procedures in in Section
9-3-5-3, the report required by paragraph B.1 shall contain a reasonable
measure of the user's long term production rate. For all other users subject to
Categorical Pretreatment Standards expressed only in terms of allowable
pollutant discharge per unit of production (or other measure of operation), the
report required by paragraph B.1 shall include the user's actual average
production rate for the reporting period.
      7.   In cases where the pretreatment standard requires compliance with a
BMP or pollution prevention alternative, the user must submit documentation
required by the Pretreatment Coordinator or the pretreatment standard necessary
to determine the compliance status of the user.
      8.   Upon approval of a monitoring waiver for pollutants found to be not
present and revision of the user's permit by the Pretreatment Coordinator, the
user must certify on each periodic report with the statement in Section
9-3-7-6, that there has been no increase in the pollutant in its wastestream
due to activities of the user with the following statement:
       "Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for
managing compliance with the Pretreatment Standard for 40 CFR       (specify
applicable National Categorical Pretreatment Standard part(s)), I certify that,
to the best of my knowledge and belief, there has been no increase in the level
of the (list the categorically regulated pollutant(s)) in the wastewaters due
to the activities at the facility since filing of the last periodic report."
      9.   In the event that a waived pollutant is found to be present or is
expected to be present because of changes that occur in the user's operations,
the user must immediately comply with the monitoring requirements of Section
9-3-9-3.B.1 or other more frequent monitoring requirements imposed by the
Pretreatment Coordinator, and notify the Pretreatment Coordinator.
   C.   Non-Significant Categorical Users:
      1.   Non-Significant Categorical Industrial Users as defined in Section
9-3-1-6 shall, at a frequency determined by the Pretreatment Coordinator but no
less frequently than annually (on dates specified by the Village) submit a
report which contains the certification statement contained in Section
9-3-9-3.C.2 below.
      2.   Certification Statement.
      “Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for
managing compliance with the Categorical Pretreatment Standards under 40 CFR
___, I certify that, to the best of my knowledge and belief that during the
period from _____________,________ to _____________,________ (months, days,
year):
         a.   The facility described as ______________  (facility name) met the
definition of a Non-Significant Categorical Industrial User as described by
Section 9-3-1-6;
         b.   The facility complied with all applicable Pretreatment Standards
and Requirements during this reporting period; and
         c.   The facility never discharged more than 100 gallons of total
categorical wastewater on any given day during this reporting period.
      This compliance certification is based on the following information:
                                                                                                        
                                                                                                        ”
   The report is required to be signed by an Authorized Representative of the
user.
   D.   Other Non-Significant Regulated Users:
      1.   Categorical Zero Process Dischargers, Non-Categorical Zero Process
Dischargers, Batch Dischargers, Food Service Establishments and any firms
regulated by individual or general permit requirements including but not
limited to BMPs shall, at a frequency determined by the Pretreatment
Coordinator, submit a periodic report at a frequency defined in their
Wastewater Discharge Permit.
      2.   The reports may require sampling and analyses or some other measure
to determine compliance with permit Pretreatment Standards and Requirements.
The user must submit documentation necessary to determine the compliance status
of user as defined by the Pretreatment Coordinator and identified in the
Wastewater Discharge Permit.
      3.   All FSE's with GT's and GI's must maintain cleaning logs. These logs
shall be immediately available at the time of an inspection and are required to
contain the following information:
         a.   Person and company that performed the cleaning;
         b.   Measurement of the depth of solids blanket and grease cap prior
to cleaning in each trap or interceptor;
         c.   Volume of material removed from each trap or interceptor; and
         d.   Location where waste will be disposed.
   A copy of the cleaning log may be required to be submitted to the Village by
a date specified in a request issued by the Pretreatment Coordinator. (Ord.
2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-9-4: REPORTS FROM NON-PERMITTED USERS:
All non-residential users not required to obtain a Wastewater Discharge Permit
shall provide appropriate reports to the Pretreatment Coordinator as required.
These reports include but are not limited to surveys of business activities,
water usage, wastes discharged, spill and slug loading potential, pretreatment
equipment, waste hauling and facility layout. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-9-5: AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE CHANGE NOTIFICATION:
Any Significant Industrial User (SIU) that changes the Authorized
Representative of its company as defined in Section
9-3-1-6 shall file a change notice with the Village within thirty (30) calendar
days. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-9-6: REPORTS OF CHANGED CONDITIONS:
Each non-residential user must notify the Pretreatment Coordinator of any
planned substantial changes to the user's operations or system which might
alter the nature, quality, or volume of its wastewater at least thirty (30)
calendar days before the change that for example results in an increase or
addition or planned shutdown or deletion of products. Immediate shutdowns or
deletions of products are required to be noticed within five (5) working days
of determination.
   A.   The Pretreatment Coordinator may require the non-residential user to
submit such information as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed
condition, including the submission of a Wastewater Discharge Permit
application under Section
9-3-7-5.
   B.   The Pretreatment Coordinator may issue or modify an existing individual
or general Wastewater Discharge Permit under Sections
9-3-8-2 and
9-3-8-4 in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
   C.   For purposes of this requirement, substantial changes include, but are
not limited to, flow increases of twenty percent (20 percent) or greater, the
addition or deletion of a shift, the discharge of any previously unreported
pollutants including changes to the listed or characteristic hazardous wastes
for which the non-residential user has submitted initial notification under
Section
9-3-9-9, introduction of a pollutant for which a monitoring waiver had been
obtained, the addition of a new process regardless of waste discharge or lack
of discharge, shutdown of a process, or addition or deletion of a product.
   D.   SIUs and CIUs are required to notify the Pretreatment Coordinator
immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the potential for a slug
discharge. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-9-7: REPORTS OF POTENTIAL PROBLEMS:
   A.   Initial Notification. In the case of any discharge, including, but not
limited to, accidental discharges, discharges of a non-routine, episodic
nature, a non-customary batch discharge, or a slug load, that may cause
potential problems for the POTW, any user shall immediately telephone, and
notify the Pretreatment Coordinator of the incident. If this notification
cannot be made to the POTW staff during routine business hours, the user shall
notify the Village Police Department. This notification shall include the name
of the caller, location of the discharge, physical state of discharge, chemical
composition, concentration and volume, if known, and date and time of discharge
as well as duration of the discharge, and corrective actions taken by the user.
The notification shall include what Federal, State and local entities have also
been notified by the user.
   B.   The user shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with all applicable regulations upon
reduction, loss or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
includes the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
   C.   Written Notification: Within fifteen (15) calendar days following such
discharge, the user shall, unless waived by the Pretreatment Coordinator,
submit a detailed written report describing the cause(s) of the discharge and
the measures to be taken by the user to prevent similar future occurrences.
   D.   Such notifications shall not relieve the user of any expense, loss,
damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of damage to the
POTW, natural resources, or any other damage to person or property; nor shall
such notification relieve the user of any fines, penalties, or other liability
which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   E.   A Notice/Sign shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board
or other prominent place advising employees in English and the language of
common use whom to call in the event of a discharge described in paragraph A
above. Employers shall ensure through documentation that all employees, who may
cause such a discharge to occur, are advised of the emergency notification
procedure. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-9-8: NOTICE OF VIOLATION/REPEAT SAMPLING AND REPORTING:
If sampling performed by a user indicates a violation, the user must notify the
Pretreatment Coordinator within twenty-four (24) hours of becoming aware of the
violation. The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the
results of the repeat analysis to the Pretreatment Coordinator within thirty
(30) calendar days after becoming aware of the violation. The user is not
required to resample if the Pretreatment Coordinator monitors at the user's
facility at least once a month, or if the Pretreatment Coordinator samples
between the user's initial sampling and when the user receives the results of
this sampling. If the Village performed the sampling and analysis in lieu of
the user, the Village will perform the repeat sampling and analysis unless it
notifies the user of the violation and requires the user to perform the repeat
sampling and analysis. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-9-9: NOTIFICATION OF THE DISCHARGE OF HAZARDOUS WASTE:
   A.   Pursuant to 40 CFR 403.12(p) any user who commences the discharge of
hazardous waste shall notify the POTW, the USEPA Regional Waste Management
Division Director, and State hazardous waste authorities, in writing, of any
discharge into the POTW of a substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would
be a hazardous waste under 40 CFR Part 261. Such notification must include the
name of the hazardous waste as set forth in 40 CFR Part 261, the EPA hazardous
waste number, and the type of discharge (continuous, batch, or other). If the
user discharges more than one hundred (100) kilograms of such waste per
calendar month to the POTW, the notification also shall contain the following
information to the extent such information is known and readily available to
the user: an identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the
wastes, an estimation of the mass and concentration of such constituents in the
waste stream discharged during that calendar month, and an estimation of the
mass of constituents in the waste stream expected to be discharged during the
following twelve (12) months. All notifications must take place no later than
one hundred and eighty (180) calendar days after the discharge commences. Any
notification under this paragraph need be submitted only once for each
hazardous waste discharged. However, notifications of changed conditions must
be submitted under Section
9-3-9-6. The notification requirement in this section does not apply to
pollutants already reported by users subject to Categorical Pretreatment
Standards under the self-monitoring requirements of Sections
9-3-9-2.A,
9-3-9-2.C, and
9-3-9-3.B.
   B.   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of paragraph A, above,
during a calendar month in which they discharge no more than fifteen (15)
kilograms of hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as
specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharge of more than fifteen
(15) kilograms of non-acute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any
quantity of acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33
(e), requires a one-time notification. Subsequent months during which the user
discharges more than such quantities of any hazardous waste do not require
additional notification.
   C.   In the case of any new regulations under Section 3001 of RCRA
identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any
additional substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the
Pretreatment Coordinator, the USEPA Regional Waste Management Waste Division
Director, and State hazardous waste authorities of the discharge of such
substance within ninety (90) calendar days of the effective date of such
regulations.
   D.   In the case of any notification made under this Section, the user shall
certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity of
hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be economically
practical.
   E.   This provision does not create a right to discharge any substance not
otherwise permitted to be discharged by this chapter, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable Federal or State law. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-9-10: REPORT SUBMITTAL DUE DATES:
Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date postmarked.
For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail facility
serviced by the United States Postal Service, the date of receipt of the report
shall govern. In order to meet deadlines, reports may be faxed or emailed on
the due date to the Village. The original of the Fax or email is required to be
mailed to the Village postmarked within one (1) working day of the
transmission. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-10: COMPLIANCE MONITORING:
9-3-10-1: RIGHT OF ENTRY: INSPECTION AND SAMPLING:
The Pretreatment Coordinator and his designee(s), Duly Authorized Agents of the
Village, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, and the United States
Environmental Protection Agency, hereafter referred to as above named entities,
shall have the right to enter the premises of any user to determine whether the
user is complying with all requirements of this chapter and any individual or
general Wastewater Discharge Permit or order issued hereunder, users shall
allow the above named entities ready access to all parts of the premises for
the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, analyses,
records examination and copying, and the performance of any additional duties.
   A.   Where a user has security measures in force, which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the above named entities will be permitted to enter
without delay for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities.
   B.   The Village shall have the right to set up on the user's property or
require installation of such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling and/
or metering of the user's operations.
   C.   The Pretreatment Coordinator may require the user to install monitoring
equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall
be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user
at its own expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality
shall be calibrated twice yearly (at six month intervals) to ensure their
accuracy. The user shall submit these calibration reports semi-annually to the
Village with the Periodic Compliance Reports required in Section
9-3-9-3.
   D.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the user
at the written or verbal request of the Pretreatment Coordinator and shall not
be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the user.
   E.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Pretreatment Coordinator and his
designee access to the user's premises shall be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-10-2: RECORD KEEPING:
   A.   Users. Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter
shall retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all records of
information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this
chapter and any additional records of information obtained pursuant to
monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements,
and documentation associated with Best Management Practices established under
Section
9-3-8-2. Records shall include the date, exact place, method, and time of
sampling, and the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses
were performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or
methods used; and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain
available for a period of at least three (3) years. This period shall be
automatically extended for the duration of any litigation concerning the user
or the Village, or where the user has been specifically notified of a longer
retention period by the Pretreatment Coordinator.
   B.   Village. The Village will maintain documentation of any monitoring
waiver issued per Section
9-3-7-5.D for a period of three (3) years after the expiration of the waiver.
The documentation will include the reasons supporting the waiver and any
information submitted by the user in its request for the waiver. (Ord. 2023-34,
7-24-2023)
9-3-10-3: SEARCH WARRANTS:
If the Pretreatment Coordinator has been refused access to a building,
structure, or property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate
probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or
that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection
and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any
permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health,
safety and welfare of the community, then the Pretreatment Coordinator may seek
issuance of a search warrant from the Circuit Court of DuPage County. (Ord.
2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-11: CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION:
Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys, Wastewater
Discharge Permit applications, individual or general Wastewater Discharge
Permits, and monitoring programs, and the Pretreatment Coordinator inspection
and sampling activities, shall be available to the public without restriction,
unless the user specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the Pretreatment Coordinator and Village Attorney, that the
release of such information would divulge information, processes, or methods of
production entitled to protection as trade secrets under applicable State law.
Any such request must be asserted at the time of submission of the information
or data. When requested and demonstrated by the user furnishing a report that
such information should be held confidential, the portions of a report which
might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made available
for inspection by the public, but shall be made available immediately upon
request to governmental agencies for uses related to the NPDES program or
pretreatment program, and in enforcement proceedings involving the person
furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics and other
"effluent data" as defined by 40 CFR 2.302 will not be recognized as
confidential information and will be available to the public without
restriction. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-12: PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE:
The Pretreatment Coordinator shall publish annually, in a newspaper of general
circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdiction
served by the POTW, a list of the users which, at any time during the previous
twelve (12) months, were in Significant Noncompliance with applicable
Pretreatment Standards and Requirements. The term Significant Noncompliance
shall be applicable to all Significant Industrial Users and Categorical
Industrial Users (or any other user that violates paragraphs (C), (D) or (H) of
this Section and shall mean:
   A.   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which sixty-six percent (66%) or more of all the measurements taken
for the same pollutant parameter during a six (6)-month period exceed (by any
magnitude) a numeric Pretreatment Standard or Requirement including
instantaneous limits as defined in Section
9-3-5;
   B.   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those in
which thirty-three percent (33%) or more of wastewater measurements taken for
each pollutant parameter during a six (6)-month period equals or exceeds the
product of the numeric Pretreatment Standard or Requirement including
Instantaneous Limits, as defined by Section
9-3-5 multiplied by the applicable criteria (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils and
grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
   C.   Any other violation of a Pretreatment Standard or Requirement as
defined by Section
9-3-5 (daily maximum, long-term average, instantaneous limit, or narrative
standard) that the Pretreatment Coordinator has determined caused, alone or in
combination with other discharges, interference or pass through, including
endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public;
   D.   Any discharge of pollutants that has caused imminent endangerment to
the public or to the environment, or has resulted in the Pretreatment
Coordinator exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a
discharge;
   E.   Failure to meet, within ninety (90) days of the scheduled date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in an individual or general Wastewater
Discharge Permit or enforcement order for starting construction, completing
construction, or attaining final compliance;
   F.   Failure to provide within forty-five (45) calendar days after the due
date, any required reports, including baseline monitoring reports, reports on
compliance with Categorical Pretreatment Standard deadlines, periodic self-
monitoring reports, and reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
   G.   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
   H.   Any other violation(s), which may include a violation of Best
Management Practices, that the Pretreatment Coordinator determines will
adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment
program. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-13: ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES:
9-3-13-1: NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION:
   A.   When the Pretreatment Coordinator finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, a Wastewater Discharge
Permit or order issued hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or
Requirement, the Pretreatment Coordinator may serve upon that user a written
Notice of Violation. Within ten (10) working days of the receipt of this notice
an explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and
prevention thereof, to include specific required actions, shall be submitted by
the user to the Pretreatment Coordinator. Submission of this plan in no way
relieves the user of liability for any violations occurring before or after
receipt of the Notice of Violation.
   B.   The Pretreatment Coordinator may initiate a Pretreatment Review meeting
for any Violation issued under Section
9-3-13-1.A but most likely for the first violation of any parameter. The
Village shall schedule a Pretreatment Review meeting, normally within thirty
calendar days of the determination that a meeting is required.
   As a result of a Pretreatment Review meeting, the Village may issue a
compliance directive stating that the user is in a "corrective action" status.
A plan for correction and compliance schedule illustrating milestones may be
issued by the Village to the user. This plan for correction and compliance
schedule may become part of the user's permit. The user is responsible for
meeting the permit limits at all times. The plan for correction, compliance
schedule and revised permit does not relieve the user of meeting the permit
limits and/or Ordinance requirements. The user shall take whatever actions are
necessary to meet the permit limits and permit conditions.
   C.   As a result of a violation, the Village may continue to sample the user
and inspect the user's progress towards meeting milestones as needed to
determine if the user is complying with the conditions of the plan of action,
compliance schedule and/or permit. In the event the Village detects and
documents any violation; a NOV will be issued to the user.
   D.   Each detected Violation of the plan of action, compliance schedule, and
permit, will result in an NOV being issued to the user. When NOV #3 (total of
three NOVs) is issued, a "citation" may be issued to the user by the Building
Commissioner. The citation is a legal notice requiring the user to appear in
court, either DuPage County Circuit Court or the Village Adjudication Court.
The Village may charge fines to the user as provided for in the ordinance
Section
1-4-1.
   E.   When the user has met the conditions of the plan of action, compliance
schedule, and permit, the Village will notify the user in writing that the
conditions have been satisfied and they are no longer under a "corrective
action" status if such a status was formally issued.
   F.   Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the Pretreatment
Coordinator to take any action, including emergency actions or any other
enforcement action, without first issuing a Notice of Violation. (Ord. 2023-34,
7-24-2023)
9-3-13-2: COMPLIANCE AGREEMENTS:
The Village Administrator with consultation with the Pretreatment Coordinator
may enter into Compliance Agreements, i.e. Consent Orders, assurances of
compliance, or other similar documents establishing an agreement with any user
responsible for noncompliance. Such documents will include specific action to
be taken by the user to correct the noncompliance within a time period
specified by the document. Such documents shall have the same force and effect
as the administrative orders issued pursuant to Sections
9-3-13-4 and
9-3-13-5 and shall be judicially enforceable. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-13-3: SHOW CAUSE ORDER:
The Pretreatment Coordinator may order a user which has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, a Wastewater Discharge Permit or
order issued hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, to
appear at a specified date and time to show cause why the proposed enforcement
action should not be taken. Notice shall be served on the user specifying the
time and place for the meeting, the proposed enforcement action, the reasons
for such action, and a request that the user show cause why the proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the meeting shall be
served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested)
at least ten (10) working days prior to the hearing. Such notice may be served
on any Authorized Representative of the user. A show cause hearing shall not be
a bar against, or prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
(Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-13-4: COMPLIANCE ORDERS:
When the Pretreatment Coordinator finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, a Wastewater Discharge Permit or
order issued hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, the
Pretreatment Coordinator may issue an order to the user responsible for the
discharge directing that the user come into compliance within a specified time.
If the user does not come into compliance within the time provided, sewer
service may be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or
other related appurtenances are installed and properly operated. Compliance
orders also may contain other requirements to address the noncompliance,
including additional self-monitoring and management practices designed to
minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the sewer. A compliance order
may not extend the deadline for compliance established for a Pretreatment
Standard or Requirement, nor does a compliance order relieve the user of
liability for any violation, including any continuing violation. Issuance of a
compliance order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against the user. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-13-5: CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS:
When the Pretreatment Coordinator finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, a Wastewater Discharge Permit or
order issued hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, or
that the user's past violations are likely to recur, the Pretreatment
Coordinator may issue an order to the user directing it to cease and desist all
such violations and directing the user to:
   A.   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
   B.   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be needed to
properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting
operations and/or terminating the discharge.
Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-
24-2023)
9-3-13-6: EMERGENCY SUSPENSIONS:
The Pretreatment Coordinator may immediately suspend a user's discharge, after
informal notice to the user, whenever such suspension is necessary to stop an
actual or threatened discharge which reasonably appears to present or cause an
imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons. The
Pretreatment Coordinator may also immediately suspend a user's discharge, after
notice and opportunity to respond, that threatens to interfere with the
operation of the POTW, or which presents, or may present, an endangerment to
the environment.
   A.   Any user notified of a suspension of its discharge shall immediately
stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user's failure to
immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the Pretreatment
Coordinator may take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate
severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW,
its receiving stream, or endangerment to any individuals. The Pretreatment
Coordinator may allow the user to recommence its discharge when the user has
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Pretreatment Coordinator that the
period of endangerment has passed, unless the termination proceedings in
Section
9-3-13-7 are initiated against the user.
   B.   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the Pretreatment Coordinator prior to the
date of any show cause or termination hearing under Sections
9-3-13-3 or
9-3-13-7.
Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as requiring a hearing prior to
any emergency suspension under this section. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-13-7: TERMINATION OF DISCHARGE:
In addition to the provisions in Section
9-3-8-6, any user who violates the following conditions is subject to discharge
termination:
   A.   Violation of Wastewater Discharge Permit conditions;
   B.   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
   C.   Failure to report substantial changes in operations or wastewater
volume, constituents, and characteristics prior to discharge;
   D.   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the purpose of
inspection, monitoring, or sampling; or
   E.   Violation of the Pretreatment Standards in Section
9-3-5.
Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its discharge and be
offered an opportunity to show cause under Section
9-3-13-3 why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option
by the Pretreatment Coordinator shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for,
taking any other action against the user. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-14: PENALTIES AND JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES:
9-3-14-1: RECOVERY OF COSTS INCURRED:
Any entity or user violating any of the provisions of this chapter, or who
causes damage to or impairs the Village's POTW shall be liable to the Village
for any expense, loss or damage caused by such violation or discharge. The
Village may invoice the costs, including but not limited to, sampling and
analyses associated with the investigation, costs of mitigating impact to the
POTW, costs of preparing the administrative enforcement actions such as notices
and orders; investigative and/or correction actions, and review of response(s)
from the user. In the event of damage, losses or impairments, the Village shall
bill the user for the costs incurred by the Village for any cleaning, repair,
replacement or other investigative and/or corrective action(s) as a response to
the violation or discharge. Refusal to pay the assessed costs shall constitute
a violation of this chapter enforceable under the provisions of Section
9-3-13.
Recovery of costs incurred also includes increased maintenance of the sewer
system as a result of a FSE's inability to adequately remove FOG from its
wastewater discharge. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-14-2: ADMINISTRATIVE FINES:
   A.   When the Pretreatment Coordinator finds that a user has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual or general
Wastewater Discharge Permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, the Pretreatment Coordinator may fine
such user in an amount not to exceed (insert maximum fine allowed under State
Law). Such fines shall be assessed on a per-violation, per-day basis. In the
case of monthly or other long-term average discharge limits, fines shall be
assessed for each day during the period of violation.
   B.   Users desiring reconsideration of such fines must file a written
request for the Pretreatment Coordinator to reconsider the fine along with full
payment of the fine amount within thirty (30) calendar days of being notified
of the fine. Where a request has merit, the Pretreatment Coordinator may
convene a hearing on the matter. In the event the user's appeal is successful,
the payment, together with any interest accruing thereto, shall be returned to
the user.
   C.   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-
24-2023)
9-3-14-3: INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
When the Pretreatment Coordinator finds that a user has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual or general Wastewater
Discharge Permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard
or Requirement, the Pretreatment Coordinator may petition the Circuit Court of
DuPage County through the Village Attorney for the issuance of a temporary or
permanent injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific
performance of the individual or general Wastewater Discharge Permit, order, or
other requirement imposed by this chapter on activities of the user. The
Pretreatment Coordinator may also seek such other action as is appropriate for
legal and/or equitable relief, including a requirement for the user to conduct
environmental remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar
against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user. (Ord.
2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-14-4: CIVIL PENALTIES:
When the Pretreatment Coordinator finds that a User has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, an individual or general Wastewater
Discharge Permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard
or Requirement, the Pretreatment Coordinator may petition the Circuit Court of
DuPage County through the Village Attorney for civil penalties as follows:
   A.   Any user shall be subject to the imposition of a civil penalty in at
least the amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) a day for each violation.
In the case of a monthly or other long-term average discharge limit, penalties
shall accrue for each day during the period of the violation.
   B.   The Pretreatment Coordinator may recover costs, including but not
limited to, filing fees, witness fees, attorneys' fees, court costs, and other
expenses associated with enforcement activities, including sampling and
monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred by the
Village.
   C.   In determining the amount of civil liability, the Court shall take into
account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the extent
of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of the violation,
any economic benefit gained through the user's violation, corrective actions by
the user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor as justice
requires.
   D.   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-
2023)
9-3-14-5: REMEDIES NONEXCLUSIVE:
The remedies provided for in this chapter are not exclusive. The Pretreatment
Coordinator may take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a
noncompliant user. Enforcement of Pretreatment violations will generally be in
accordance with the Village's enforcement response plan. However, the
Pretreatment Coordinator may take other action against any user when the
circumstances warrant. Further, the Pretreatment Coordinator is empowered to
take more than one enforcement action against any noncompliant user. (Ord.
2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-15: SUPPLEMENTAL ENFORCEMENT ACTION:
9-3-15-1: FAILURE TO REPORT OR NOTIFY:
   A.   Sewer Extension and Connection Permits: Any entity who fails to file
for and obtain a sewer extension or connection permit prior to commencing
construction of said extension or connection required by this chapter may be
subject to the following late filing fees in addition to extension, connection
or annexation fees:
      1.   First Notice   Issuance of Warning/Citation
      2.   Second Notice   $250.00
      3.   Cost per day per Population Equivalent (PE) for each additional day
past second notice deadline   $100.00.
   B.   Village Reports or Notifications: Any entity who fails to file any
report or notification so required by this chapter may be subject to the
following late filing fees:
      1.   First Offense - less than 30 calendar days past due   Issuance of
Warning
      2.   Recurring reporting violations or thirty (30) or more calendar days
past due    $100.00
         NOV response noncompliance   $250.00
         Cost per additional day past final request deadline   $50.00
      3.   Substantial Change Notification: No written notification of
substantial changes whether discharged or not:
         At start-up or shutdown   $500.00
         Per each additional 15 days in excess of 30 calendar days   $100.00
   C.   Reports or Notifications required by Significant or Categorical
Industrial Users: Any entity who fails to file any Periodic Pretreatment Report
(Semi-Annual), Baseline Monitoring Report, or 90-day Final Compliance Report so
required by this chapter may be subject to the following late filing fees:
      1.   First Offense - less than 30 calendar days past due   Issuance of
Warning
      2.   Recurring reporting violations or 30 or more calendar days past
due   $250.00
         NOV response noncompliance   $500.00
         Cost per additional day past final request deadline   $100.00
      3.   Substantial changes
         No written notification of substantial changes whether discharged or
not:
         At start-up or shutdown   $1000.00
         Per each additional 15 days in excess of 30 calendar days   $200.00
   D.   Ownership Notification Specific to Entities With Wastewater Discharge
Permits:
      1.   No written notification of change in ownership and/or operation of
facility, or any portion thereof with an individual permit   $1000.00
      2.   No written notification of change in ownership and/or operation of
facility, or any portion thereof with a general permit   $500.00
(Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-15-2: CASH BONDS:
The Pretreatment Coordinator may decline to issue or reissue an individual or
general Wastewater Discharge Permit to any user who has failed to comply with
any provision of this chapter, a previous individual or general Wastewater
Discharge Permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard
or Requirement, unless such user first files a satisfactory cash bond, payable
to the Village, in a sum not to exceed a value determined by the Pretreatment
Coordinator to be necessary to achieve consistent compliance. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-
24-2023)
9-3-15-3: LIABILITY INSURANCE:
The Pretreatment Coordinator may decline to issue or reissue an individual or
general Wastewater Discharge Permit to any user who has failed to comply with
any provision of this chapter, a previous individual or general Wastewater
Discharge Permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other Pretreatment Standard
or Requirement, unless the user first submits proof that it has obtained
financial assurances sufficient to restore or repair damage to the POTW caused
by its discharge. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-15-4: PAYMENT FOR OUTSTANDING FEES AND PENALTIES:
The Pretreatment Coordinator may decline to issue or reissue an individual or
general Wastewater Discharge Permit to any user who has failed to pay any
outstanding fees, fines or penalties incurred as a result of any provision of
this chapter, a previous individual or general Wastewater Discharge Permit or
order issued hereunder. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-15-5: WATER SUPPLY SEVERANCE:
Whenever a user has violated or continues to violate any provision of this
chapter, an individual or general Wastewater Discharge Permit, or order issued
hereunder, or any Pretreatment Standard or Requirement, water service to the
user may be severed. Service will recommence, at the user's expense, only after
the user has satisfactorily demonstrated its ability to comply and paid
outstanding costs, fees, and penalties as provided by Village Code. (Ord. 2023-
34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-15-6: PUBLIC NUISANCES:
A violation of any provision of this chapter, an individual or general
Wastewater Discharge Permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
Pretreatment Standard or Requirement is hereby declared a public nuisance and
shall be corrected or abated as directed by the Pretreatment Coordinator. Any
person(s) creating a public nuisance shall be subject to the provisions
governing such nuisances, including reimbursing the Village for any costs
incurred in removing, abating, or remedying said nuisance. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-
2023)
9-3-15-7: CONTRACTOR LISTING:
Users which have not achieved compliance with applicable Pretreatment Standards
and Requirements are hereby declared to be non-responsible users and therefore
are not eligible to receive a contractual award for the sale of goods or
services to the Village. Existing contracts for the sale of goods or services
to the Village held by a user found to be in significant noncompliance with
Pretreatment Standards or Requirements may be terminated at the discretion of
the Pretreatment Coordinator. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-16: AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS:
9-3-16-1: UPSET:
   A.   For the purposes of this section, "upset" means an exceptional incident
in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with Categorical
Pretreatment Standards because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the
user. An upset does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or improper
operation.
   B.   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with Categorical Pretreatment Standards if the requirements
of paragraph C, below, are met.
   C.   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other
relevant evidence that:
      1.   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      2.   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      3.   The user has submitted the following information to the Pretreatment
Coordinator within twenty-four (24) hours of becoming aware of the upset (if
this information is provided orally, a written report must be provided within
five (5) working days):
         a.   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
         b.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         c.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   D.   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   E.   Users will have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
Categorical Pretreatment Standards.
   F.   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with Categorical Pretreatment Standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-16-2: PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS:
A user shall have an affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought
against it for noncompliance with the general prohibitions in Sections
9-3-5-2.A and B or the specific prohibitions in Sections
9-3-5-2 C1-26 (excluding paragraphs C2, C10 and C17) if it can prove that it
did not know, or have reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in
conjunction with discharges from other sources, would cause pass through or
interference or that either:
   A.   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was in
compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass through or
interference; or
   B.   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the user's prior discharge when the Village was
regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and in the case of interference,
was in compliance with applicable biosolids use or disposal requirements. (Ord.
2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-16-3: BYPASS:
   A.   For the purposes of this section,
 
BYPASS:                 The intentional diversion of waste streams from any
                        portion of a user's treatment or pretreatment facility.
                        Substantial physical damage to property, damage to the
                        treatment facilities which causes them to become
                        inoperable, or substantial and permanent loss of
SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE: natural resources which can reasonably be expected to
                        occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property
                        damage does not mean economic loss caused by delays in
                        production.
 
   B.   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause Pretreatment
Standards or Requirements to be violated, but only if it also is for essential
maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not subject to
the provision of Subsections C and D of this section.
   C.   Bypass Notifications:
      1.   Anticipated: If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it
shall submit prior notice to the Pretreatment Coordinator, at least ten (10)
working days before the date of the bypass, if possible.
      2.   Unanticipated: A user shall submit oral notice to the Pretreatment
Coordinator of an unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment
standards within twenty-four (24) hours from the time it becomes aware of the
bypass. A written submission shall also be provided within five (5) working
days of the time the user becomes aware of the bypass. The written submission
shall contain a description of the bypass and its cause; the duration of the
bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if the bypass has not been
corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue; and steps taken or
planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent reoccurrence of the bypass. The
Pretreatment Coordinator may waive the written report on a case-by-case basis
if the oral report has been received within twenty-four (24) hours.
   D.   POTW Actions:
      1.   Bypass is prohibited, and the Pretreatment Coordinator may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         a.   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury,
or severe property damage;
         b.   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         c.   The user submitted notices as required under paragraph C of this
section.
      2.   The Pretreatment Coordinator may approve an anticipated bypass,
after considering its adverse effects, if the Pretreatment Coordinator
determines that it will meet the three conditions listed in paragraph D.1 of
this section. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-17: MISCELLANEOUS FEES:
9-3-17-1: PRETREATMENT PROGRAM FUNDING:
It is the intent of the Village to pass all general costs of the pretreatment
program to Industrial Users. The fees shall apply to those users subject to the
pretreatment program are based on water usage.
The following charges shall apply to those users subject to the Pretreatment
program with Discharge Permits which are based on water usage of the user:
 
Monthly Water Usage (gallons) Monthly Charge
0 - 1,000                     Reserved
1,000 - Infinity              Reserved
 
Billing shall be based on the billing cycle for water and sewer and shall be
added on to the water and sewer bill. The rates or charges for Pretreatment
service shall be payable bimonthly. The owner of the premises, the occupant
thereof, and the user of the service shall be jointly and severally liable to
pay for the service to such premises and the service is furnished to the
premises by the Village only upon the condition that the owner of the premises,
occupant and user of the service are jointly and severally liable therefore to
the Village.
If the charge for such services is not paid within twenty (20) calendar days
after billing date, the account will be charged a ten percent (10 percent)
penalty. If a partial payment is made, the penalty is also to the unpaid
delinquent balance. If the account remains delinquent after an additional
thirty (30) days which includes the final notice period, such services shall be
discontinued and shall not be reinstated until all unpaid charges and a turn-on
fee, as defined in Section
10-1-2, have been paid in full, either in U.S. currency or by a certified
negotiable instrument. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-17-2: PRETREATMENT CHARGES AND FEES:
The Village may adopt reasonable fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up
and operating the Village's Pretreatment Program unique to a specific user
found in Section
10-1-2 which may include:
   A.   Categorical pretreatment standard determination, establishment and
documentation for wastewater discharge permit;
   B.   Fees for preparing and issuing a wastewater discharge permit;
   C.   Fees for monitoring, inspection, and surveillance procedures including
the cost of collection and analyzing a user's discharge, and reviewing
monitoring reports submitted by users;
   D.   Fees for reviewing plans or construction relating to Spill Prevention
Containment and Countermeasures / Slug Load Plans as defined in Section
9-3-6-5;
   E.   Fees for reviewing FSE waivers per Section
9-3-3-8.C;
   F.   Fees for responding to Report of Potential Problems as defined in
Section
9-3-9-7;
   G.   Fees for filing appeals;
   H.   Fees to recover administrative and legal costs (not included in Section
9-3-15-1) associated with the enforcement activity taken by the Pretreatment
Coordinator to address user noncompliance; and
   I.   Other fees as the Village may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein. These fees relate solely to the matters covered
by this chapter and are separate from all other fees, fines, and penalties
chargeable by the Village. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-17-3: ADDITIONAL REMEDIES:
   A.   In addition to remedies available to the Village set forth elsewhere in
this chapter, if the POTW is fined by the state or USEPA for violation of the
POTW NPDES permit or violation of Water Quality Standards as the result of
discharge of pollutants by a user or group of users, then the fine, including
all legal, sampling, analytical testing costs and any other related costs
incurred by the Village shall be charged to the responsible user or group of
users. Such charges shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other
remedies the Village may have under this chapter, statutes, regulations, at law
or in equity.
   B.   If the discharge from any non-residential user causes a deposit,
obstruction or damage to any portion of the POTW, the POTW shall cause the
deposit or obstruction to be promptly removed or cause the damage to be
promptly repaired. The cost for such work, including materials, labor and
supervision, shall be borne by the person or non-residential user causing such
deposit, obstruction, or damage. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-18: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
9-3-18-1: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter is invalidated by any court of competent
jurisdiction, the remaining provisions shall not be effected and shall continue
in full force and effect. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-18-2: CONFLICT:
All other ordinances and parts of other ordinances inconsistent or conflicting
with any part of this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of such
inconsistency or conflict. (Ord. 2023-34, 7-24-2023)
9-3-18-3: OFFENSES UNDER PREVIOUS ORDINANCES:
This chapter shall not be construed or held to repeal a former Ordinance,
whether such former Ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former Ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former Ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect such offense or
act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new Ordinance takes
effect, save only that proceedings thereafter shall conform to the Ordinance in
force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. Nothing contained
in this chapter shall be construed as abating any action now pending. (Ord.
2023-34, 7-24-2023)
TITLE 10
BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING PERMITS, FEES AND BONDS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Classifications Of Fees For Plan Reviews, Permits, Inspections And
Engineering Provisions
10-1-1-1: Permit Regulations, Special Conditions And Additional Fees
10-1-1-2: Bonds
10-1-1-3: Engineering Provisions
10-1-1-4: Document Sales And Reproduction Costs
10-1-2: Fee Schedules
10-1-2-1: Building Department Plan Review And Inspection Permit Schedule Of
Fees
10-1-2-2: Engineering Department Plan Review And Inspection Permit Schedule Of
Fees
10-1-2-3: Miscellaneous Application And Permit Schedule Of Fees
10-1-3: Compliance Required
10-1-4: Penalties
10-1-1: CLASSIFICATIONS OF FEES FOR PLAN REVIEWS, PERMITS, INSPECTIONS AND
ENGINEERING PROVISIONS:
   A.   Plan Review Fees:
      1.   A fee for the review of all plans shall be charged as indicated in
section
10-1-2-1 of this chapter. Said plan review fees shall be paid at the time of
submission of plans for review. Said fees shall be nonrefundable and are
separate from permit, inspection and engineering provision fees.
      2.   The plan review fees for residential construction, new or remodel,
for assembly, business, mercantile, educational, institutional, storage,
industrial, miscellaneous and mixed use occupancy construction shall be charged
as indicated in section
10-1-2-1 of this chapter. The plan review fee for all construction, in addition
to other applicable fees, shall be based on the estimated cost of construction
for the proposed project. The estimated cost of construction shall, at a
minimum, be based on the estimated cost per square foot for the type of
construction and the use contemplated. The latest edition of "RS Means Cost
Data Guide" and/or actual project cost contracts provided by the applicant
shall be used by the Building Commissioner in determining the estimated project
cost of construction.
      3.   There shall be charged for an expedited permit plan review, if
requested by the permit applicant, one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the
costs of such services as indicated in section
10-1-2-1 of this chapter. Plan review fees shall be paid at the time of
submission of plans for review, and said fees shall be nonrefundable and are
separate from permit, inspection and engineering provision fees.
   B.   Building Permit Fees:
      1.   The building permit fee shall be charged as indicated in section
10-1-2-1 of this chapter. The building permit fee shall be paid at the time of
permit issuance.
      2.   The building permit fee shall be based on the estimated cost of
construction of the proposed structure or improvement. The estimated cost of
construction shall, at a minimum, be based on the estimated cost per square
foot for the type of construction and the use contemplated. The latest edition
of "RS Means Cost Data Guide" and/or actual project cost contracts provided by
the applicant shall be used by the Building Commissioner in determining the
estimated project cost of construction.
   C.   Electrical Permit Fee: The electrical permit fee shall be charged as
indicated in section
10-1-2-1 of this chapter. The electrical permit fee shall be paid at the time
of permit issuance.
   D.   Plumbing Permit Fee: The plumbing permit fee shall be charged as
indicated in section
10-1-2-1 of this chapter. The plumbing permit fee shall be paid at the time of
permit issuance.
   E.   Mechanical Permit Fee: The mechanical permit fee shall be charged as
indicated in section
10-1-2-1 of this chapter. The mechanical permit fee shall be paid at the time
of permit issuance.
   F.   Fire Protection System Permit Fee: The fire protection system permit
fee shall be charged as indicated in section
10-1-2-1 of this chapter. The fire protection system permit fee shall be paid
at the time of permit issuance.
   G.   Final Inspection/Occupancy Inspection Fee:
      1.   The permit fee for a final inspection, occupancy inspection,
business license occupancy inspection, and temporary occupancy inspection
(additional occupancy inspection fee paid at the time of temporary occupancy
inspection request) shall be charged as indicated in section
10-1-2-1 of this chapter. Any final inspection/occupancy inspection fee shall
be paid at the time of inspection permit issuance prior to the scheduling of
the inspection.
      2.   If occupancy is requested without all requirements of the permit and
applicable village codes and ordinances being complete, a letter of credit or
cash performance bond in the amount of one hundred ten percent (110%) of the
cost of the incomplete permit and/or village code and ordinance requirements
shall be posted. This type of occupancy request may result in the issuance of a
temporary certificate of occupancy with an expiration date. Only incomplete
permit, code and/or ordinance requirements exterior to the building
construction are eligible for this temporary certificate of occupancy
consideration at the discretion of the building commissioner.
   H.   Elevator, Escalator, Dumbwaiter, Man Lift, Wheelchair Lift, Moving Walk
Permit And Semiannual/Annual Inspection Fees:
      1.   The permit fee for an elevator, escalator, dumbwaiter, man lift,
wheelchair lift and moving walk installation shall be charged as indicated in
section
10-1-2-1 of this chapter and shall be paid at the time of permit issuance.
      2.   The semiannual fee for inspection of elevators, escalators, man
lifts and moving walks shall be charged as indicated in section
10-1-2-1 of this chapter. The semiannual fee for inspection shall be paid upon
receipt of an invoice for said services.
      3.   The annual fee for inspection of wheelchair lifts shall be charged
as indicated in section
10-1-2-1 of this chapter. The annual fee for inspection shall be paid upon
receipt of an invoice for said services.
   I.   Flammable Liquids Storage Tanks And Flammable Liquids Dispensing Device
Permit Fees:
      1.   The flammable liquids storage tank permit fee shall be charged as
indicated in section
10-1-2-1 of this chapter. The flammable liquids storage tank permit fee
(installation or removal) shall be paid at the time of permit issuance.
      2.   The flammable liquids dispensing device permit fee shall be charged
as indicated in section
10-1-2-1 of this chapter. The flammable liquids dispensing device permit fee
shall be paid at the time of permit issuance.
   J.   Miscellaneous Permit Fees: Miscellaneous permit fees shall be charged
as indicated in section
10-1-2-1 of this chapter. Miscellaneous permit fees shall be paid at the time
of permit issuance. (Ord. 2009-42, 10-26-2009)
10-1-1-1: PERMIT REGULATIONS, SPECIAL CONDITIONS AND ADDITIONAL FEES:
   A.   Expiration Of Permit And Extensions: If, after a permit required by
this chapter has been granted and the operations called for by such permit have
not begun within six (6) months after issuance, such permit shall be void, and
no operations shall begin until an extended permit, executed by the owner or
the owner's agent, is issued by the village. A fee of twenty five percent (25%)
of the original cost of the permit shall be charged for a permit extension. An
extended permit shall be valid for six (6) months following the date of
expiration of the original permit and must be applied for within ten (10) days
after the expiration of the original permit. Only two (2) extensions shall be
granted. If work has not begun within eighteen (18) months after the date of
issuance of the original permit, all rights under the permit shall terminate by
limitation.
   B.   Completion Of Permitted Work: If, after a permit required by this
chapter has been granted and the operations called for by such permit have not
been completed within twelve (12) months after issuance, such permit shall be
void, and no operations shall continue until an extended permit, executed by
the owner or the owner's agent, is issued by the village. A fee of one hundred
percent (100%) of the original cost of the permit shall be charged for this
permit extension. All rights under the initial permit shall terminate by
limitation. At the discretion of the building commissioner, updated village
codes and ordinances, if more stringent than those existing at the time of
initial permit issuance, may be applied to the extended permit request.
   C.   Transfer Of Permit: Transfer of a permit issued to someone other than
the original applicant shall require fifteen percent (15%) of the original
permit fee to be paid at the time of the transfer permit issuance.
   D.   Work Commenced Without Required Permit: A penalty of one hundred
percent (100%) of the normal permit fee shall be payable by the permit
applicant where work for which a permit is required has commenced before the
permit is issued.
   E.   Not Ready Fee And Reinspection Callback Fee:
      1.   If an inspection is scheduled and the work to be inspected is not
ready for inspection or the inspector is unable to access the premises for
inspection, a fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be required to be paid
prior to any further inspections.
      2.   Where more than two (2) inspections of the same work for the same
Code violation(s) is required, a fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) will be
required to be paid prior to the third or each subsequent inspection(s).
   F.   Reimbursement For Use Of Professional Or Technical Consultant Services:
If the purchase and/or use of professional or technical services is required by
the Village to perform, complete or resolve permit processing, inspections or
plan review activity, the permit applicant shall reimburse the Village for one
hundred ten percent (110%) of the costs of such services. The Village will
notify the permit applicant, in writing, prior to engaging professional or
technical assistance. Payment shall be due upon invoice issuance by the
Village. (Ord. 2009-42, 10-26-2009)
10-1-1-2: BONDS:
   A.   Applications for building permits shall be accompanied by a bond in the
amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), executed by a surety company
authorized to transact business in the State of Illinois as surety on the bond,
with the applicant as principal on the bond and the Village as beneficiary, and
that of consumers dealing with the applicant, conditioned that the applicant
shall faithfully perform the duties and in all things comply with this Code
pertaining to the applied for building permit without causing damage to
surrounding private or public properties. The bond shall remain in effect until
the issuance of final inspection approval and/or final certificate of
occupancy. (Ord. 2012-32, 7-23-2012)
   B.   Prior to the issuance of a permit, additional refundable bonds, if
required, shall be deposited with the Village to assure compliance with
applicable Village codes and ordinances. (Ord. 2009-42, 10-26-2009)
10-1-1-3: ENGINEERING PROVISIONS:
   A.   Site Plan Review:
      1.   Residential: The plan review fee for new residential construction
shall be charged as indicated in section
10-1-2-2 of this chapter. No fee is required for remodeling or expansion. The
residential site plan review fee shall be paid at the time of permit issuance.
      2.   Commercial: The plan review fee for commercial construction,
including remodeling or expansion, shall be charged as indicated in section
10-1-2-2 of this chapter. The commercial site plan review fee shall be paid at
the time of permit issuance. (Ord. 2009-42, 10-26-2009)
   B.   Stormwater Management Certification Fee: The stormwater management
certification fee shall be charged as provided in section
10-1-2-2 of this chapter. The stormwater management certification fee shall be
paid at the time of permit issuance. (Ord. 2012-32, 7-23-2012)
   C.   Underground Utility Service Permit Fee: The underground utility service
permit fee shall be charged as indicated in section
10-1-2-2 of this chapter. The underground utility service permit fee shall be
paid at the time of permit issuance. (Ord. 2009-42, 10-26-2009)
   D.   Plan And Specifications Review Fee: The plan and specifications review
fee shall be charged as indicated in section
10-1-2-2 of this chapter. The plan and specifications review fee shall be paid
at the time of execution of the subdivision plat by the Village President or
upon approval of the plan by the Village Engineer, whichever comes first. (Ord.
2009-42, 10-26-2009; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
   E.   Public And Quasi-Public Improvement Inspection Fee:
      1.   The public and quasi-public improvement (see definitions in
subsection E2 of this section) inspection fee shall be charged as provided in
section
10-1-2-2 of this chapter. The public and quasi-public improvement inspection
fee shall be paid at one of the following times, at the discretion of the
Village:
         a.   Upon the execution of the subdivision plat by the Village
President and Village Clerk; (Ord. 2012-32, 7-23-2012)
         b.   Upon approval of a site development plan or permit by the Village
Engineer;
         c.   Upon approval of a building permit by the Building Commissioner,
with the concurrence of the Village Engineer. (Ord. 2012-32, 7-23-2012; amd.
Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
      2.   For the purpose of this subsection, the following terms shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection E2:
    PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: Any sanitary sewer, storm sewer, drainage ditch, water
main, roadway, parkway, sidewalk, pedestrianway, street lighting, planting
strip, off street parking area or other facility for which the Village may
ultimately assume the responsibility for maintenance and operation.
   QUASI-PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: Any sanitary sewer, storm sewer, drainage ditch,
water drain, roadway, parkway, sidewalk, pedestrianway, nonstandard street
lighting, planting strip, landscaping, off street parking area or other
facility for which a private entity such as, but not limited to, a homeowners'
association, may ultimately assume responsibility for maintenance and
operation. (Ord. 2012-32, 7-23-2012)
10-1-1-4: DOCUMENT SALES AND REPRODUCTION COSTS:
Document sales and reproduction costs shall be charged in an amount comparable
to the Village's actual cost of reproduction, as established by the Village
from time to time. (Ord. 2009-42, 10-26-2009; amd. 2012 Code)
10-1-2: FEE SCHEDULES:
The schedule of fees to be charged in connection with the administration and
enforcement of the Village building ordinances, subdivision codes and other
related development ordinances and standards is as established in sections
10-1-2-1,
10-1-2-2 and
10-1-2-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-42, 10-26-2009; amd. 2012 Code)
10-1-2-1: BUILDING DEPARTMENT PLAN REVIEW AND INSPECTION PERMIT SCHEDULE OF
FEES:
Permit/Fee Classification Fee
Permit/Fee Classification              Fee
Plan review:
 Residential                          $50.00 base fee
                                     Plus $0.10 per sq. ft.
                                      
 Multi-family residential             $50.00 base fee, first unit of each
                                       building
                                     $50.00 each additional unit of each
                                       building
                                     Plus $0.10 per square foot per building
                                      
 Commercial                           $150.00 base fee
                                     Plus $0.004 x construction cost from
                                       $1.00 to $1,000,000.00
                                     Plus $0.0005 x construction cost from
                                       $1,000,000.00 and over
                                      
 Expedited plan review fees           150% of cost of plan review per this
                                       fee schedule
                                      
Building:
 Residential/commercial               $50.00 base fee, first $1,000.00 of
                                       construction cost or fraction thereof
                                       Plus $8.00 for every $1,000.00 or
                                     fraction thereof after the first
                                       $1,000.00 for the first 100,000 sq. ft.
                                       of construction
                                     Thereafter, $4.00 per $1,000.00 or
                                       fraction thereof
                                     Includes all miscellaneous residential
                                       work
                                      
Electrical:
 Electrical                           $50.00 - 100 ampere service, single-
                                       phase
                                     $10.00 each additional 100 amperes in
                                       size
                                      
                                     $50.00 - 100 ampere service, 3-phase
                                     $15.00 for each additional 100 amperes
                                       in size
                                      
                                     $50.00 for alteration of existing
                                       service
                                      
 Circuit fees                         $3.00, 1-pole 15A./20A. circuit
                                     $4.00, 2-pole circuit
                                     $5.00, 3-pole circuit
                                      
 Motor fees                           $1.00 per horsepower
 Transformer fees                     $1.00 per KVA
 Outdoor lighting standard fee        $10.00 per fixture
                                      
 All work not covered in this fee     $50.00 per required inspection
  schedule
                                      
Mechanical/HVAC:
 Residential/commercial               $50.00 base fee
                                     Plus $10.00 per 1,000 sq. ft. of floor
                                       area or portion thereof
                                      
Fire protection system:
 Residential/commercial               $50.00 base fee
                                     Plus $2.00 per 1,000 sq. ft. of floor
                                       area or portion thereof
                                      
Plumbing:
 Plan review:                          
     Residential                   $50.00 base fee
                                     Plus $10.00 for each fixture or rough
                                       opening
                                      
     Commercial                    $75.00 base fee
                                     Plus $10.00 for each fixture or rough
                                       opening
                                      
 Inspection:                           
     Residential                   $50.00 base fee
                                     Plus $10.00 for each fixture or rough
                                       opening
                                      
     Commercial                    $75.00 base fee
                                     Plus $10.00 for each fixture or rough
                                       opening
                                      
  All work not covered in this fee
 schedule, reinspections or extra      
  inspections shall be charged $50.00
  per required inspection
                                      
 Residential water heater inspections $50.00
Final inspection/certificate of occupancy:
 Residential                          $75.00, final inspection/occupancy
                                     $75.00, new construction/remodeling
                                      
 Commercial                           $75.00, final inspection/occupancy
                                      
 Residential/commercial               $75.00, temporary occupancy - all uses
                                      
Elevator, escalator, dumbwaiter, man lift/persons with disabilities lift/
moving walk, semiannual/annual inspections:
 Residential/commercial               $200.00 per unit
                                      
 Semiannual inspection fee            $75.00 per unit for elevators,
                                       escalators, man lifts and moving walks
                                      
 Annual inspection fee                $75.00 per unit for persons with
                                       disabilities lifts
                                      
Flammable liquids storage tanks and flammable liquids dispensing devices:
 Storage tanks                        $50.00 base fee
                                     Plus $10.00 for each 2,000 gallons or
                                       portion thereof storage capacity
                                      
 Dispensing devices                   $50.00 base fee
                                     Plus $5.00 for each hose
                                      
Miscellaneous:
 Demolition                           $100.00 base fee
                                     Plus $5.00 per 1,000 sq. ft.
                                      
 Construction trailer                 $50.00 base fee
 
(Ord. 2009-42, 10-26-2009; amd. 2012 Code)
10-1-2-2: ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT PLAN REVIEW AND INSPECTION PERMIT SCHEDULE OF
FEES:
Permit/Fee Classification Fee
Permit/Fee Classification               Fee
                                         
Application fees:
 Stormwater certification              $75.00
                                       
 General certification                 $50.00
                                       
 Letter of permission                  $25.00
                                       
Ditch fill permits:
 Plan review fee                       $25.00 per site
                                       
 Inspection fee                        $25.00 per site
Engineering plan review:
 Single-family                         $350.00 per acre with a $350.00 minimum
                                       
 Multi-family                          $200.00 per unit with a $400.00 minimum
                                       
 Commercial                            $350.00 per acre with a $250.00 minimum
                                       
Stormwater management (section
10-12-1 of this title):
 Site runoff conveyance, storage       $650.00 per acre-foot, with a $250.00
                                        minimum
                                       
                                        $500.00 per acre ($500.00 minimum, plus
 Floodplain, wetland or buffers        direct costs of consultants, and a
                                        Village administrative fee)
                                       
Underground utility service inspection fees:
 Water service                         $50.00 per inspection
                                       
 Sewer service                         $50.00 per inspection
                                       
Soil erosion control and Best Management Practices for water quality:
 SESC                                  $50.00 per site
    If part of a general certificati$25.00 per site
                                       
 BMPs                                  $250.00 per site
    If part of a general certificati$25.00 per site
                                       
Landscape inspection fee                $100.00
                                      Plus 1.5% of approved estimate of
                                        construction
                                       
Connection to storm sewer:
 Permit fee                            $10.00 per connection
                                       
 Inspection fee                        $40.00 per connection; includes sump
                                        pumps and downspouts
                                       
Plan and specification review           $100.00
                                      Plus 1% of approved engineer's estimate
                                        of construction
                                       
Public and quasi-public improvement     $150.00
inspection                              Plus 1.5% of approved engineer's
                                        estimate of construction
                                       
Sewer/water (connection fees/water      See title 9, chapter 1 of this Code
meters)
 
(Ord. 2012-32, 7-23-2012)
10-1-2-3: MISCELLANEOUS APPLICATION AND PERMIT SCHEDULE OF FEES:
Permit/Fee Classification Fee
                           
Permit/Fee Classification                                        Fee
                                                                  
Property amendment, variation, special use, exception applications:
 Single- to two-family                                          $ 50.00
  
 General residence to multiple dwelling residence               75.00
  
 Business district                                              100.00
  
 Commercial, industrial, manufacturing and business park        150.00
  
 PUD of 250 acres or more                                       500.00
  
Tree preservation/removal permit fee (as required by this code)  100.00
  
Sign permit fees:   
 Sign installation (illuminated or nonilluminated)              100.00
  
 Temporary sign/banner (per 15 day period - maximum 4 per year) 50.00
  
 Commercial real estate sign installation                       100.00
  
Recreational ramp fee                                            100.00
  
Not ready fee and reinspection callback fee                      100.00
Temporary land use fee (per day)                                 25.00
 
(Ord. 2009-42, 10-26-2009; amd. 2012 Code)
10-1-3: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to erect, construct, reconstruct, alter, occupy, maintain,
or conduct business in any building or structure in the village in violation of
the terms and provisions of this chapter or without payment of the fees set
forth herein. (Ord. 2009-42, 10-26-2009)
10-1-4: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms and provisions of this
chapter shall be subject to a penalty in the amount of one hundred percent
(100%) of any unpaid fee required by this chapter and, in addition, the penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each day of violation. (Ord. 2009-42, 10-26-2009; amd.
2012 Code)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
10-2-1: Village Building Code
10-2-2: Amendments To Code
10-2-3: Compliance Required; Application Of Provisions
10-2-4: Penalties
10-2-1: VILLAGE BUILDING CODE:
The building code of the village (hereinafter referred to as the "building
code") shall hereafter be identical with the provisions of that publication
entitled "International Building Code, 2021 Edition", except as amended in
section
10-2-2 of this chapter. Three (3) copies of the building code are on file in
the office of the village clerk and are available for public inspection at all
times during regular business hours as provided by law. (Ord. 2016-13, 3-14-
2016; amd. Ord. 2020-04, 2-10-2020; Ord. 2023-02, 2-13-2023)
10-2-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
Additions, insertions, changes and deletions to sections of the building code
are hereby revised as follows:
Subsection [A] 101.1 Title (page 1-1, Name of Jurisdiction, insert in second
line)
   Insert: village of Bloomingdale.
Subsection [A] 101.2 Scope, Exception (page 1-1, add to sixth line in
exception)
   Add: . . . as amended and adopted by the village of Bloomingdale.
Subsection [A] 101.4.1 Gas (page 1-1, referenced codes, delete subsection and
insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: All installations of gas piping from the point of delivery, gas
appliances and related accessories shall conform to the current provisions of
the village of Bloomingdale fuel gas code.
Subsection [A] 101.4.2 Mechanical (page 1-1, referenced codes, delete
subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: All installations, alterations, repairs and replacement of
mechanical systems, including equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and/or
appurtenances, including ventilating, heating, cooling, air-conditioning and
refrigeration systems and other energy-related systems shall be in accordance
with the current provisions of the village of Bloomingdale mechanical code.
Subsection [A] 101.4.3 Plumbing (page 1-1, referenced codes, delete subsection
and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: The design, installation, alteration, repair and replacement of
plumbing systems, including equipment, appliances, fixtures, fittings and
appurtenances, and where connected to a water or sewage system and all aspects
of a medical gas system, shall conform to the current provisions of the village
of Bloomingdale plumbing code.
Subsection [A] 101.4.4 Property Maintenance (page 1-1, referenced codes, delete
subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: The maintenance of existing structures and premises; equipment and
facilities; light, ventilation, space heating, sanitation, life and fire safety
hazards; responsibilities of owners, operators and occupants; and occupancy of
existing premises and structures shall conform to the current provisions of the
village of Bloomingdale property maintenance code.
Subsection [A] 101.4.5 Fire Prevention (page 1-1, referenced codes, add to end
of subsection)
   Add: The current provisions of the village of Bloomingdale fire prevention
code.
Subsection [A] 101.4.6 Energy (page 1-1, referenced codes, delete subsection
and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: The design and construction of buildings for energy efficiency shall
conform to the current provisions of the village of Bloomingdale energy
conservation code.
Subsection [A] 101.4.7 Existing buildings (Page 1-2, referenced codes, delete
subsection and insert - formerly Section 3412)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: Repair, alteration, change of occupancy, addition to and relocation
of existing buildings shall conform to the sections of the building code and
any other applicable village of Bloomingdale code and ordinance requirements
for new construction.
Subsection [A] 101.4.8 Zoning (page 1-2, add new subsection)
   Add: Zoning - The restrictions of the zoning regulations and all amendments
thereto, shall not be deemed to be modified by any provision of this code; and
such restrictions shall be controlling except insofar as this code imposes
greater restrictions by reason of the type of construction used, in which case
the provisions of this code shall control.
Subsection [A] 101.4.9 Legislative (page 1-2, add new subsection)
   Add: Legislative - If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of
this ordinance is, or shall be for any reason held to be invalid, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance. The
village board hereby declares that it would have passed this ordinance, and
each section, subsection, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact
that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses and phrases be
declared invalid.
Section [A] 103 Department of Building Safety (page 1-2, delete section and
insert)
   Delete: Entire section.
   Insert: The building and zoning department shall be charged with the
enforcement of the building code, and the building commissioner shall be known
as the building official.
Subsection [A] 105.2 Work Exempt from Permits (pages 1-4 and 1-5, permits
section - Work Exempt from Permits, delete exemptions)
   Delete: All building permit exemptions, except where approved by the
building commissioner.
   Delete: All electrical permit exemptions, except where approved by the
building commissioner.
   Delete: All gas permit exemptions, except where approved by the building
commissioner.
   Delete: All mechanical permit exemptions, except where approved by the
building commissioner.
   Delete: All plumbing permit exemptions, except where approved by the
building commissioner.
Subsection [A] 105.5 Permit Expiration (page 1-5, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: Permit expiration shall be governed by title 10, chapter 1 of the
village code.
Subsection [A] 107.1 Submittal Documents (page 1-6, Submittal Documents, add to
ninth line)
   Add: Unless otherwise specified by the building commissioner, each
application shall be accompanied by a minimum of six (6) sets of drawings and
specifications signed and sealed by an architect licensed to practice
architecture as provided by the Illinois architectural act, or by a structural
engineer licensed to practice structural engineering as provided by the
Illinois architectural act, or by the owner of said proposed building when it
is determined to be sufficient by the building commissioner. To obtain a
permit, the owner or his representative shall file an application on a form
furnished by the village for that purpose, and shall include a signed statement
indicating the proposed occupancy or use of all parts of the building and the
estimated construction cost thereof.
Subsection [A] 110.3.12 Final Occupancy Inspection (page 1-9, Final Occupancy
Inspection, add to third line)
   Add: No building or part thereof, hereafter erected, or the structure of
which shall hereafter be altered or repaired and for which erection, alteration
or repair a permit shall be required as provided in sections [A] 105 and [A]
106 of this building code, and no existing building in which the character of
the occupancy is to be changed, shall be occupied or used in whole or in part
until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued by the building
commissioner. Such certificate shall carry the certification of the building
commissioner that said building or part thereof conforms to the requirements of
this and any other applicable village ordinance, and that said building,
construction, alteration, or repair has been substantially completed in
accordance with the plans and specifications upon which the building permit
required by this ordinance was issued.
Subsection [A] 111.1.1 Change in Use (page 1-9, Occupancy Certificate
Requirements, add to subsection 111.1)
   Add: No building upon which a certificate of occupancy shall have been
issued shall be used for a different classification or group occupancy until a
certificate of occupancy for such different use shall have been issued by the
building commissioner; provided, however, that no certificate of occupancy
shall be issued in any event unless the occupancy or use of the building
complies with the zoning law. "Change of occupancy" is not intended to mean
change of tenant or proprietor, provided the new tenant is to occupy the
building for a purpose, which would not involve its reclassification into a
different occupancy group.
Subsection [A] 111.2 Certificate Issued (page 1-9, delete occupancy certificate
requirements)
   Delete: Requirements numbered 7, 9, 10, and 11.
Subsection [A] 111.3 Temporary Occupancy (page 1-9, Occupancy Certificate
Requirements, add to subsection)
   Add: A cash performance bond, or other method of surety acceptable to the
building commissioner, shall be posted in the amount of one hundred and ten
percent (110%) of the cost of the remaining work necessary for a certificate of
occupancy to be issued. Completion of the incomplete work and the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy shall be secured prior to the expiration date of the
temporary occupancy. Failure to comply with this occupancy requirement shall
constitute a violation of this ordinance which shall be punishable as provided
in section
1-4-1 of the village code.
Section [A] 113 Board of Appeals (page 1-9, Board of Appeals, delete section
and insert)
   Delete: Entire section.
   Insert: That any person, firm or corporation shall have the right to appeal
a decision of the building commissioner to the zoning board of appeals. Means
of appeal shall follow requirements set forth in title 11, chapter 3, section 7
of the village code.
Subsection [A] 116.1 Unsafe Conditions (page 1-11, add to subsection)
   Add: If any building or other structure has become dangerous to life, limb
or property or to the public because of structural defects, deterioration, or
fire damage, or has become so unsanitary or out of repair as to render the same
unsafe and unfit for occupancy or human habitation, it shall be deemed a
nuisance, and the building commissioner, if and when he shall find any such
conditions exist, shall declare such building or other structure a nuisance and
shall condemn the same, and no person, firm or corporation shall occupy, rent,
lease or use such building or other structure with or without compensation. The
violations of the provisions of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor,
and any person, firm or corporation found guilty of a violation thereof shall
be subject to a fine in the manner and amount as provided by section
1-4-1 of the village code.
Subsection [A] R116.1.1 Reconstruction or Removal (page 1-11, add to
subsection)
   Add: Rebuilding, restoration or removal must begin within five (5) days of
condemnation notice. Any building or other structure condemned and declared to
be a nuisance by the building commissioner under the provisions of subsection
[A] 116.1 hereof shall be put in a safe or sanitary condition or be demolished
and removed. Within five (5) days after the service of notice in the manner and
form provided in subsections [A] 116.3 and [A] 116.4 hereof, to make such
building or other structure safe or sanitary or to remove and demolish the
same, the owner or owners or the party or parties interested therein shall
proceed to begin the work of making said building or other structure safe or
sanitary or the work of removing and demolishing the same and shall prosecute
said work continuously without unnecessary delay to a completion thereof;
provided, however, that should the owner or person in possession of said
building or structure deem himself aggrieved by any direction to repair or
remove such building or other structure alleged by the building commissioner to
be a nuisance, he shall, within a period of five (5) days after the giving of
the notice as required by subsection [A] 116.3 and subsection [A] 116.4 hereof,
have the right to appeal in writing, from the judgment of the building
commissioner to the zoning board of appeals, which board shall make the
investigation and report its findings to the village board. If in the judgment
of the village board upon consideration of the report of the zoning board of
appeals, said building or other structure is unsafe or unsanitary and should be
declared a nuisance, it shall order the owner or other person in possession
thereof to forthwith begin the work of making safe or sanitary or of
demolishing and removing said building or other structure. After demolition of
a structure, the premises shall be maintained free from all unsafe and
hazardous conditions. Removal of all underground and in-ground structures is
required. Restoration of established grades is required to insure proper lot
drainage in compliance with village engineering regulations.
Subsection [A] R116.3.1 Notice - Noncompliance with Notice of Unsafe Buildings
(page 1-11, add to subsection)
   Add: Upon the failure of the owners of said building or other structure, or
the party or parties interested therein, within five (5) days after the service
of the notice provided in subsection [A] 116.3 hereof or upon the failure to
comply with an order of the village board as provided in subsection [A] 116.1
hereof to begin the work of making safe or sanitary or of removing and
demolishing said building or other structure, or upon the failure of the owner
or owners or the party or parties interested therein after beginning such work
to proceed continuously without unnecessary delay to completion thereof, the
village may take any action at law or in equity to restrain the use of such
structure, or may proceed against the owner or any person in possession of the
same in a penal action before administrative hearing and adjudication or the
18th circuit court for the violation of the provisions of this ordinance. The
village may also, in its discretion, cause the said structure to be secured to
prevent access, cleaned of unsanitary conditions detrimental to the public or
removed in its entirety, after the failure, within the time hereinabove
provided for, to restore the same to a safe condition.
Subsection [A] 116.4 Method of Service (pages 1-11, add to subsection)
   Add: Whenever the building commissioner shall under the provision of
subsection 116.1 hereof, condemn and declare any building or other structure to
be a nuisance because of dangerous or unsanitary condition thereof, he shall
cause a notice in writing to be served upon the owner or owners, upon the
tenant and occupant thereof, if any, and upon the holder or holders of any
encumbrances or general tax lien thereof, if any, ordering and directing said
building or other structure to be put in a safe or sanitary condition or be
demolished and removed. Service of said notice may be effected by personal
delivery thereof, or by mailing a copy thereof by registered mail directed to
the person involved, at his last address known to the building commissioner or
available to him upon examination of the records of the county treasurer and
county clerk of DuPage County, Illinois, and by posting a copy thereof upon the
premises subject to such condemnation.
Subsection [A] 116.5 Restoration (page 1-11, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: Reconstruction to Conform to Requirements for New Structures If Cost
Exceeds 50% Of Value. A structure declared unsafe by duly constituted authority
may be restored to safe condition as provided in section 116.1 hereof; provided
that if the damage or cost of reconstruction or restoration is in excess of 50%
of the value of the structure if reconstructed or restored, it shall be made to
conform, with respect to materials and type of construction, to the
requirements for new structures as provided for in this ordinance.
Section [A] 117 Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria (page 1-11 - new
section insert)
   Insert: Ground Snow Load - 30 pounds per square foot.
   Wind Speed - See IBC code section1609.
   Seismic Design Category - See IBC code section 1613
   Damage From Weathering - Severe.
   Frost Line Depth - Forty-two (42) inches.
   Damage From Termites - Moderate to Heavy.
   Damage From Decay - Slight to Moderate.
   Winter Design Temperature - -4 degrees F.
   Ice Shield Underlayment Required - Yes.
   Flood Hazards - See current FIRM and FBFM maps.
   Air Freezing Index - 1700 cumulative degree days below 32 degrees F.
Section 202 Definitions (page 2-2, [BG] Area, Building, change first sentence)
   Change: "The area included within the surrounding exterior walls…" to "The
gross area including surrounding exterior walls…" in the first sentence.
Subsection 306.3 Factory Industrial F-2 Low-Hazard Occupancy (page 3-4, add to
end of subsection)
   Add: All factory industrial uses and occupancy classified as group F-2 shall
be classified as group F-1. Requirements of this ordinance and code for factory
industrial group F-1 shall apply to all factory industrial use and occupancy.
Subsection 311.3 Low-Hazard Storage, Group S-2 (page 3-11, add to end of
subsection)
   Add: All storage uses and occupancy classified as group S-2 shall be
classified as group S-1. Requirements of this ordinance and code for storage
group S-1 shall apply to all storage use and occupancy.
Subsection 403.1 High-Rise Buildings, Applicability (page 4-5, delete
applicability paragraph and insert new paragraph)
   Delete: Entire paragraph.
   Insert: The provisions of this section shall apply to buildings having
occupied floors located more than 55 feet (16,764 mm) or four or more stories
above the lowest level of fire department vehicle access.
Subsection [F] 403.3 High-Rise Buildings, Automatic Sprinkler System (page 4-6,
delete exception)
   Delete: Exception.
Subsection [F] 403.3.1 Number of Sprinkler Risers and System Design (page 4-6,
add to end of subsection)
   Add: All sprinkler systems shall be on a two (2) source water supply as
approved by the building official and the local fire protection district having
jurisdiction. Shut-off valves and water flow indicating devices shall be
provided for each floor in compliance with fire protection district
specifications.
Subsection 403.5.4 Smoke proof Enclosures (page 4-8, change height
requirements)
   Change: Floor surface height change from 75 feet (22,860 mm) above the
lowest level of fire department vehicle access to 55 feet (16,764 mm) shall be
a smoke proof enclosure pressurized stairway in accordance with section
909.20.4.
Subsection [F] 404.3 Atriums - Automatic Sprinkler Protection, Exceptions (page
4-8, delete exceptions)
   Delete: Exception nos. 1 and 2.
Subsection 405.7.2 Smoke proof Enclosure (page 4-10, change height
requirements)
   Change: serving floor levels from more than 30 feet (9,144 mm) below the
level of exit discharge to any exit below the level of exit discharge serving
such floor levels shall be a smoke proof enclosure and pressurized stairway in
accordance with section 909.20.4.
Subsection 406.3.1 Motor-Vehicle-Related Occupancies, Classification (page 4-
11, add to end of subsection)
   Add: All motor vehicle related occupancies are to be equipped with an
approved automatic sprinkler system and fire alarm system.
Subsection 406.3.2.1 Dwelling Unit Separation (page 4-12, delete subsection and
insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: Private attached garages shall be separated from all occupancies by
a U.L. listed two (2) hour rated fire-resistive ceiling assembly and wall
assembly. Any openings or penetrations through a rated assembly shall be made
in compliance with chapter 7.
Subsection 406.3.3 Carports (page 4-12, add to end of subsection)
   Add: Garage and carport floor surfaces shall be improved with Portland
cement concrete, 3,500 psi, not less than four (4) inches (102 mm) in thickness
over compacted crushed aggregate base not less than four (4) inches (102 mm) in
thickness. Vapor barrier minimum 6 mil in thickness shall be installed where
living area exists above garage space. Slab reinforcement is required. Garage
floor surfaces attached to habitable areas shall be provided with a six (6)
inch (153 mm) concrete gas curb, above the floor surface, adjacent to the
habitable area portion of the building. If building foundation extends the
minimum six (6) inches above floor surface, it can serve as the gas curb.
Subsection [F] 502.1 Address identification (page 5-1, change character height
line 8, add to end of subsection emergency identification system numbering)
   Change: 4 inches (102 mm) to 6 inches (153mm)
   Add: All new buildings and structures, and all buildings or structures which
are remodeled, shall have all egress doors marked with an emergency
identification system in accordance with the Fire Protection District having
jurisdiction.
Section 504/Tables 504.3 and 504.4 Building Height and Number of Stories (pages
5-2, 5-3, 5-4 and 5-5 delete construction types)
   Delete: Type of Construction - Type III, Type IV and Type V Construction.
These types of construction are not permitted. Any reference to these
construction types elsewhere in the building code are hereby deleted and not
permitted.
Section 506/Table 506.2 Building Area (pages 5-7 and 5-8 delete construction
types)
   Delete: Type of Construction - Type III, Type IV and Type V Construction.
These types of construction are not permitted. Any reference to these
construction types elsewhere in the building code are hereby deleted and not
permitted.
Subsection 507.3 Non-Sprinklered, One Story Buildings (page 5-10, delete
subsection)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
Subsection 507.4 Sprinklered, One Story Buildings (page 5-10, delete
exceptions)
   Delete: Exception nos. 1 and 2.
Subsection 508.5 Live/Work Units (pages 5-13 and 5-14, delete subsection)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
Section 601/Table 601 Fire-Resistance Rating Requirements for Building Elements
(page 6-1 delete construction types)
   Delete: Type of Construction - Type III, Type IV and Type V Construction.
These types of construction are not permitted. Any reference to these
construction types elsewhere in the building code are hereby deleted and not
permitted.
Subsection 602.3 Construction Classification Type III (page 6-1, delete
subsection)
   Delete: Delete entire subsection. Type III construction is not permitted.
Any reference to construction type III elsewhere in the building code is hereby
deleted and not permitted.
Subsection 602.4 Construction Classification Type IV (pages 6-2, 6-3 and 6-4,
delete subsection)
   Delete: Delete entire subsection. Type IV construction is not permitted. Any
reference to construction type IV elsewhere in the building code is hereby
deleted and not permitted.
Subsection 602.5 Construction Classification Type V (page 6-5, delete
subsection)
   Delete: Entire subsection. Type V construction is not permitted. Any
reference to construction type V elsewhere in the building code is hereby
deleted and not permitted.
Subsection 603.1 Allowable Materials (pages 6-5 and 6-6, delete or change
listed material applications)
   Change: Applications 1.1 and 1.2 - Fire-retardant-treated wood shall not be
permitted in any non-bearing partitions or non-bearing exterior walls.
   Change: Exception 14 - Blocking such as for handrails, millwork, cabinets,
and window and door frames shall be fire-retardant-treated lumber or plywood.
Subsection 708.1 General (pages 7-14, Fire Partitions, add to end of
subsection)
   Add: 6. Walls separating tenant spaces in the same building in all
occupancies.
Subsection 708.3 Fire-Resistance Rating (page 7-14, change hour rating, delete
exceptions)
   Change: "Fire partitions shall have a fire-resistance rating of not less
than 2 hours. If an entire building is fully protected by a fire sprinkler
system, fire partitions shall have a fire-resistance rating of not less than 1
hour."
   Delete: Exception nos. 1 and 2.
Subsection 710.3 Smoke Partitions - Fire-Resistance Rating (page 7-16, change
rating requirement)
   Change: All smoke partitions shall have a minimum fire-resistance rating of
one (1) hour.
Subsection 711.2.4.3 Horizontal Assemblies - Fire-Resistance Rating, Dwelling
units and sleeping units (page 7-17, delete exception)
   Delete: Entire exception.
Subsection 718.1 Concealed Spaces (page 7-37, void areas, add to end of
subsection)
   Add: Where additional ceilings are added during construction or remodeling
there shall not be more than one void space created without the approval of the
building commissioner and fire protection district having jurisdiction.
Subsection 718.2.1 Fire-Blocking Materials (page 7-37, delete subsection and
insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: Fire-blocking shall consist of 2-inch (51 mm) nominal lumber or two
thicknesses of 1-inch (25 mm) nominal lumber with broken lap joints, one
thickness of .625 (5/8) inch (15.8 mm) fire code gypsum board, or batts or
blankets of mineral wool, mineral fiber or other approved materials installed
in such a manner as to be securely retained in place.
Subsection 718.2.1.2 Fire-Blocking - Un-Faced Fiberglass (page 7-37, delete
subsection)
   Delete: Entire subsection (not permitted).
Subsection 718.3.1 Draft-Stopping Materials (page 7-38, delete subsection and
insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: Draft-stopping materials shall not be less than one thickness of
.625 (5/8) inch (15.8 mm) fire code gypsum board or other approved materials
adequately supported. The integrity of draft-stops shall be maintained.
Subsection [F] 903.2.1.1 Group A-1 (page 9-2, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all group
A-1 occupancies in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection [F] 903.2.1.2 Group A-2 (page 9-2, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all group
A-2 occupancies in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection [F] 903.2.1.3 Group A-3 (page 9-3, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all group
A-3 occupancies in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection [F] 903.2.1.4 Group A-4 (pages 9-3, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all group
A-4 occupancies in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection [F] 903.2.1.5 Group A-5 (page 9-3, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all group
A-5 occupancies in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection [F] 903.2.2 Ambulatory care facilities (page 9-3, delete subsection
and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all
ambulatory care facility occupancies in compliance with the latest edition of
NFPA 13.
Subsection [F] 903.2.3 Group E (page 9-3, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all group E
occupancies in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection [F] 903.2.4 Group F-1 (page 9-3, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all group
F-1 occupancies in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection [F] 903.2.6 Group I (page 9-4, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all group I
occupancies in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection [F] 903.2.7 Group M (page 9-4, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all group M
occupancies in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection [F] 903.2.9 Group S-1 (page 9-4, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all group
S-1 occupancies in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection [F] 903.2.9.1 Repair Garages (page 9-5, delete subsection and
insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic sprinkler system shall be provided throughout all
buildings used as repair garages in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA
13.
Subsection [F] 903.2.9.2 Bulk Storage of Tires (page 9-5, delete subsection and
insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: Buildings and structures utilized for the storage of tires shall be
equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in accordance with
section 903.3.1.1 in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection [F] 903.2.10 Group S-2 Parking Garages (pages 9-5, delete entire
subsection)
   Delete: Entire subsection (all S-2 uses to comply with S-1).
Subsection [F] 903.2.10.1 Commercial Parking Garages (page 9-5, add to
subsection and delete fourth line)
   Add: Automatic sprinkler systems shall be installed in compliance with the
latest edition of NFPA 13.
   Delete: Entire fourth line ... "where the fire area exceeds 5,000 square
feet (464 square meters)."
Subsection [F] 903.2.11 Specific Building Areas and Hazards (pages 9-5 and 9-6,
delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: In all occupancies an automatic fire sprinkler system shall be
installed for specific building design or hazards in all locations in
compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection [F] 903.2.13 Group B (page 9-6, add new subsection)
   Add: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all group B
occupancies in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection 903.3.1 Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Installation requirements -
Standards (page 9-6, add to subsection)
   Add: Performance based computer code analysis not allowed for system design.
Automatic sprinkler systems shall be installed in compliance with the latest
edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection 903.3.1.1 NFPA 13 sprinkler systems (page 9-6 add to subsection)
   Add: Thin wall piping is not allowed. Only schedule 10 or 40 black iron or
galvanized piping shall be installed.
Subsection 903.3.1.2.1 Balconies and decks (page 9-7, delete conditions 1. and
2., add to subsection)
   Delete: conditions 1. and 2.
   Add: Sprinkler protection shall be provided for all balconies and decks.
Automatic sprinkler systems shall be installed in compliance with the latest
edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection 903.3.8 Limited area sprinkler systems (page 9-8, add to subsection)
   Add: Limited area sprinkler systems shall only be allowed when approved by
the fire code official. Automatic sprinkler systems shall be installed in
compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection [F] 903.3.5.1 Domestic Services (page 9-8, add to end of subsection,
line 4)
   Add: Domestic water services and associated shut-off valves shall be
separate from the water supply for the automatic sprinkler system and shall be
separated on the outside of the building or structure being served with
separate identified exterior shut-off valves, unless otherwise approved by the
building official.
Subsection [F] 903.3.6 Hose Threads (page 9-8, add to end of subsection, line
3)
   Add: The size of all fire department connections shall be two and one-half
inches (21/2") in diameter and shall be national standard thread.
Subsection [F] 903.4 Sprinkler System Supervision and Alarms (pages 9-8 and 9-
9, delete exceptions 2 and 3)
   Delete: Entire exception nos. 2 and 3.
Subsection [F] 903.4.1 Monitoring (page 9-9, delete first paragraph of
subsection and insert new paragraph)
   Delete: First paragraph of subsection, exceptions to remain.
   Insert: Alarm, supervisory and trouble signals shall be distinctly different
and automatically transmitted to Central Stations or Remote Supervisory
Stations by a one- way private radio alarm system complying with Chapter 26 of
the 2010 Edition of NFPA 72, which manually or automatically retransmit
trouble, supervisory and full fire alarm signals to DuPage Public Safety
Communications (Du-Comm).
Subsection [F] 903.4.2 Alarms (page 9-9, add to the end of subsection)
   Add: Provide an outside UL Listed weather tight visual device over the fire
department sprinkler bell and connection. This device shall be equipped with a
blue lens. The strobe shall activate and stop with water flow.
Subsection [F] 903.4.2.1 Alarm Indicating Appliances (page 9-9, add new
subsection)
   Add: Audio visual devices shall be provided so that they are heard in all
areas of every building. All sprinkled buildings shall be provided with audio
visual devices. Existing buildings shall be required to bring any deficient
areas up to code upon any building additions or alterations excluding cosmetic
only alterations, subject to Building Commissioner and Fire Code Official
approval.
Subsection [F] 903.4.2.2 Alarms Indicating Appliances (page 9-9, add new
subsection)
   Add: Fire sprinkler system inspector's valves shall be located most remote
from the riser and shall be accessible at all times and located no more than 6
feet above the finished floor and remotely located. On multiple riser systems
test valves shall be marked as to which riser and area it tests.
Subsection [F] 903.4.2.3 Valve Monitoring (page 9-9, add new subsection)
   Add: Installation in multiple story buildings; floor control valves with
water flow switches shall be provided for each floor.
Subsection [F] 903.4.4 Automatic Sprinklers (page 9-9, add new subsection)
   Add: Where automatic sprinklers provide protection to an area with an
approved flow switch interconnected to the fire alarm system protected by the
zoned sprinkler system, the fire district having authority may require
additional smoke detectors for a more rapid means to identify the location of
smoke or fire.
Subsection [F] 903.6 Speculative Buildings (page 9-9, Automatic Sprinkler
Systems, insert new subsection)
   Insert: [F] 903.6 Speculative Buildings. Automatic sprinklers in speculative
buildings shall be hydraulically designed for the storage of class IV
commodities, as defined by NFPA 231, to the maximum available storage height in
the building. The maximum available storage height in a building is the clear
height dimension between the finished floor and the median point between the
bottom of the high and low points of the structural members supporting the roof
assembly. Automatic sprinkler systems shall be installed in compliance with the
latest edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection [F] 903.7 Hydraulic Calculations (page 9-9, add new subsection)
   Add: A minimum of 10% or 5 psi (whichever is greater) minimum safety factor
shall be provided in the fire protection system hydraulic calculations. The
system demand shall be 5 psi minimum below the seasonal low water flow test
supply.
   Each hydraulically calculated area, on each drawing, shall be provided with
a copy of the hydraulic nameplate.
Subsection [F] 903.3.9 Fire Pump Test Ports (Page 9-9, add new subsection)
   Add: An OS&Y control valve shall be located on all fire pump test headers.
All fire pumps installations shall provide an outside test header.
Subsection [F] 903.3.10 Fire Pump & Sprinkler Control Rooms (page 9-9, add new
subsection)
   Add: Provide an outside access door to the sprinkler riser valve room and
fire pump room. This room shall also be equipped with an interior access door
that swings in the direction of egress. Egress door(s) shall be equipped with
panic hardware.
Subsection [F] 903.3.11 Fire Pump Room Rating (page 9-9, add section to read as
follows)
   Add: All fire pump rooms shall be a minimum 2-hour U.L. rated enclosure. All
fire pump rooms shall be provided with an approved doorway from the outside and
a door from the room to the interior of the structure.
Subsection [F] 903.3.11.1 Fire Sprinkler Room Identification (Page 9-9, add new
subsection)
   Add: Fire sprinkler rooms located in new or existing multi-tenant buildings
shall be labeled in minimum six (6) inch (153mm) numbers stating "Fire
Sprinkler Control Room" and shall state the address range the system protects.
Subsection [F] 904.3.5 Monitoring (page 9-9, add to end of subsection)
   Add: Kitchen hood suppression systems shall be monitored by the building
fire alarm system and indicated as a separate zone.
Subsection [F] 905.3 Standpipe Systems - Required Installations (page 9-12,
Required Installations, add to end of subsection, line 5)
   Add: The size of all standpipe fire department connections shall be two and
one-half inches (21/2") in diameter and shall be national standard thread. Fire
communication jacks shall be provided at all fire department standpipe
connection locations and shall be tied into the building communication system.
Siamese connections for standpipe and sprinkler systems shall be located no
further than ten feet (10') apart and shall be readily accessible. Public water
supplies, when used for the hydraulic design of sprinkler and standpipe
systems, shall be adjusted to ninety percent (90%) of the actual recorded test
results. At stairwells, hose connections are required at both sides of
stairwell doors, one connection inside the stairwell and one connection outside
the stairwell.
Subsection [F] 905.3.1 Standpipe Systems - Height (page 9-12, Height, change
building height regulations on lines 3 and 5, and delete all exceptions)
   Change: "30 feet (9144 mm) above" to "15 feet (4572 mm) above" and change
"30 feet (9144 mm) below" to "15 feet (4572 mm) below".
   Delete: All exceptions.
Subsection [F] 905.7 Cabinets (page 9-13, Standpipe Systems, add to end of
paragraph)
   Add: Cabinets as required shall be mounted on the floor side of stairwell
doors.
Subsection [F] 906.1 Portable Fire Extinguishers - Where required (Page 9-14,
delete all exceptions)
   Delete: All exceptions.
Subsection [F] 907.1.3 Equipment (Page 9-16, add to end of subsection)
   Add: All fire alarm systems shall be of the addressable type and shall be
installed per NFPA 72 unless otherwise approved by the fire code official
having jurisdiction. Fire alarm and detection systems shall be installed in
compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 72.
Subsection [F] 907.1.3.1 Equipment - Fire Alarm Panel Requirements (Page 9-16,
insert new subsection)
   Insert: All fire alarm panels shall provide a minimum of 60 hours of battery
backup service in the case of A/C power failure. All fire alarm one-way radio
systems shall be equipped with 60 hours of battery backup. Code access type
fire alarm panels are not permitted.
Subsection [F] 907.1.3.2 Equipment - Inoperable (page 9-16, insert new
subsection)
   Insert: Any time a fire alarm panel or connected equipment thereof becomes
inoperable due to age or other reasons and is required to be replaced, the fire
code official having jurisdiction may require the fire alarm system for the
entire building to be brought up to current code requirements. Fire alarm and
detection systems shall be installed in compliance with the latest edition of
NFPA 72.
Subsection [F] 907.2 Where required - new buildings and structures (Page 9-16,
add to end of second paragraph)
   Add: All fire alarm control panels shall be installed near the fire
department sprinkler risers with a fully functioning remote annunciator panel
located within 10 feet of the main entrance at a location approved by the fire
code official having jurisdiction. The remote annunciator panel shall be
capable of alarm silence and reset. Code access type fire alarm panels are not
permitted.
   Exception: Manual fire alarm boxes are not required in Use Group M where the
building is equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system and the
alarm notification appliances will activate upon sprinkler water flow.
   Alarm, supervisory and trouble signals shall be distinctly different and
automatically transmitted to Central Stations or Remote Supervisory Stations by
a one-way private radio alarm system complying with Chapter 26 of the 2010
Edition of NFPA 72, which manually or automatically retransmit trouble,
supervisory, and full fire alarm signals to DuPage Public Safety Communications
(Du-Comm). Fire alarm and detection systems shall be installed in compliance
with the latest edition of NFPA 72.
   Exceptions:
   1.   Underground gate valves with roadway boxes.
Subsection [F] 907.2.1 Group A (pages 9-16 and 9-17, delete subsection and
insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: A fire alarm system in group A occupancies shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 as regulated by the fire protection
district having jurisdiction. Fire alarm and detection systems shall be
installed in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 72.
Subsection [F] 907.2.2 Group B (page 9-17, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: A fire alarm system in group B occupancies shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 as regulated by the fire protection
district having jurisdiction. Fire alarm and detection systems shall be
installed in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 72.
Subsection [F] 907.2.3 Group E (page 9-17, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: A fire alarm system in group E occupancies shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 as regulated by the fire protection
district having jurisdiction. Fire alarm and detection systems shall be
installed in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 72.
Subsection [F] 907.2.4 Group F (pages 9-17 and 9-18, delete subsection and
insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: A fire alarm system in group F occupancies shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 as regulated by the fire protection
district having jurisdiction. Fire alarm and detection systems shall be
installed in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 72.
Subsection [F] 907.2.5 Group H (page 9-18, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: A fire alarm system in group H occupancies shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 as regulated by the fire protection
district having jurisdiction. Fire alarm and detection systems shall be
installed in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 72.
Subsection [F] 907.2.6 Group I (pages 9-18 and 9-19, delete subsection and
insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: A fire alarm system in group I occupancies shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 as regulated by the fire protection
district having jurisdiction. Fire alarm and detection systems shall be
installed in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 72.
Subsection [F] 907.2.7 Group M (page 9-19, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: A fire alarm system in group M occupancies shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 as regulated by the fire protection
district having jurisdiction. Fire alarm and detection systems shall be
installed in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 72.
Subsection [F] 907.2.8 Group R-1 (page 9-19, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: A fire alarm system in Group R-1 occupancies shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 as regulated by the fire protection
district having jurisdiction. Fire alarm and detection systems shall be
installed in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 72.
Subsection [F] 907.2.9 Group R-2 (pages 9-19 and 9-20, delete subsection and
insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: A fire alarm system in group R-2 occupancies shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 as regulated by the fire protection
district having jurisdiction. Fire alarm and detection systems shall be
installed in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 72.
Subsection [F] 907.2.11.2 Group R-2, R-3, R-4 and I-1 (page 9-20, delete
subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: A fire alarm system in group R-2, R-3, R-4 and I-1 occupancies shall
be installed and maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 as regulated by the fire
protection district having jurisdiction. Fire alarm and detection systems shall
be installed in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 72.
Subsection [F] 907.2.13.4 Emergency voice/alarm communication system (page 9-
22, insert new subsection)
   Add: An emergency voice/alarm communication system shall be required in all
buildings five stories or more than 55 feet in height and shall be audible
throughout the entire building in accordance section 907.5.2.2.
Subsection [F] 907.2.24 Group S (page 9-23, insert new subsection)
   Insert: A fire alarm system in group S occupancies shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 as regulated by the fire protection
district having jurisdiction. Fire alarm and detection systems shall be
installed in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 72.
Subsection [F] 907.6.4.1.1 Multi-Zone, (page 9-27, insert new subsection)   
   Insert:   Multi-tenant buildings will be "ring by tenant" and shall include
weather tight clear outside strobe lights over the entrance to each tenant
space as directed by the Fire Code Official. All outside strobes shall provide
a minimum of 75 candelas.
Subsection [F] 907.6.4.3 Zones (page 9-27, insert new subsection)
   Insert: Subsection [F]907.6.3.3 Zone Disconnects. All fire alarm systems
shall be capable of zoned disconnects at the control panel. Disconnection of a
zone shall cause the fire alarm system to transmit a trouble signal.
Subsection [F] 907.6.6 Monitoring (page 9-27, delete part of subsection and
insert)
   Delete: First paragraph of subsection, exceptions to remain.
   Insert: Alarm, supervisory and trouble signals shall be distinctly different
and automatically transmitted to Central Stations or remote Supervisory
Stations by a one- way private radio alarm system complying with Chapter 26 of
the 2010 Edition of NFPA 72, which manually or automatically retransmit
trouble, supervisory and full fire alarm signals to DuPage Public Safety
Communications (Du-Comm). Fire alarm and detection systems shall be installed
in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 72.
Subsection [F] 907.9 Fire Alarm and Sprinkler Rooms (page 9-27, insert new
subsection)
   Insert: Multi-tenant fire alarm and sprinkler system room doors shall be
labeled in minimum six (6) inch (153mm) numbers stating "Fire Sprinkler / Fire
Control Room" and shall state the address range the system protects.
Subsection [F] 907.10 Private Wireless Radio Alarm Systems (page 9-27, insert
new subsection)
   Insert: Alarm, supervisory and trouble signals shall be distinctly different
and automatically transmitted to Central Stations or Remote Supervisory
Stations by a one- way private radio alarm system complying with Chapter 26 of
the 2010 Edition of NFPA 72, which manually or automatically retransmit
trouble, supervisory, and full fire alarm signals to DuPage Public Safety
Communications (Du-Comm). Fire alarm and detection systems shall be installed
in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 72.
Subsection [F] 910.2 Smoke and Heat Vents - Where required (page 9-36, add to
end of subsection paragraph, and delete exception)
   Add: Buildings or portions thereof shall be provided with a mechanical smoke
exhaust system in all occupancies of groups A, B, E, F, H, I, M and S having
more than 30,000 square feet (2787 square meters) in floor area. Such systems
shall provide three to four air exchanges per hour. All key switches shall be
Knox Box style keyed to the fire protection district having jurisdiction.
   Delete: All exceptions at discretion of the code official.
Subsection [F] 910.2.1 Smoke and heat Vents - Where required - Groups F-1 And
S-1 (page 9-36, delete entire subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: Groups F and S. Buildings and portions thereof used as a group F, H
or S occupancy having less than 30,000 square feet (2787 square meters) in
floor area. Such systems shall provide three to four air exchanges per hour.
All key switches shall be "Knox Box" style keyed to the fire protection
district having jurisdiction.
Subsection 1006.2.1 Egress based on occupant load and Common Path of Egress
Travel Distance (page 10-5, add requirements)
   Add: 3. The length of common path of egress travel in occupancies in group
B, F and S shall not be more than 100 feet (30 480 mm) for common truck docks
which are provided and separated from other occupancies by 1-hour fire-
resistance rated assemblies, and that are entirely protected throughout with an
approved automatic sprinkler system in accordance with section 903.3.1.1.
   Add: 4. Where shared truck dock facilities are provided in Group B, S and F
occupancies in multiple tenant buildings, two exits or exit access doorways
from the space shall be provided.
Subsection 1009.1 Accessible Means of Egress Required (page 10-10, add to end
of subsection and delete exception no. 1)
   Add: Accessible means of egress shall comply with the current version of the
Illinois accessibility code.
   Delete: Exception no. 1.
Subsection 1010.1.2.1 Direction of Swing (page 10-13, change occupant load in
line 4)
   Change: "occupant load of 50 or more" to "occupant load of more than 10 for
exterior doors only. All exterior doors, doors accessing an exit enclosure, and
all doors serving group H occupancy shall swing in the direction of egress
travel and be provided with an approved automatic door closer. "
Subsection 1010.2.4 Locks and Latches (page 10-15, delete numbers 3, 3.1, 3.2
and 3.3)
   Delete: Numbers 3, 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3.
   Subsection 1013.3 Illumination. (Page 10-27, delete and insert)
   Delete:   First sentence
   Insert: Exit signs shall be internally illuminated.
Subsection 1015.4 Guards - Opening Limitations (page 10-30, add to end of
subsection)
   Add: Required guards shall not be constructed with horizontal rails or other
ornamental pattern that results in a ladder effect.
   Table 1020.2 Corridor Fire-Resistance Rating (page 10-34, change hour
ratings in table)
   Change: All occupancies without sprinkler systems are "not permitted" in the
third column in coordination with section [F] 903.2, which as amended by this
ordinance requires all buildings to be equipped throughout with an automatic
sprinkler system in accordance with section [F] 903.1.1 or [F] 903.3.1.2 where
allowed.
   Change: All occupancies with sprinkler systems are to have 1-hour corridor
fire-resistance rating in the fourth column, with no reductions in fire-
resistance allowed. Exit corridors serving fire-resistance rated stairwells
shall have the same fire-resistance rating as the stairwell.
Subsection 1023.12 Smoke-Proof Enclosures (page 10-37, add "and pressurized
stairway" in line 3)
   Add: "and pressurized stairway" in line 3 after smokeproof enclosures.
Subsection 1101.2 Design (page 11-1, add to subsection)
   Add: Compliance with the current edition of the Illinois Accessibility Code
is required.
Subsection 1301.1.1 Energy Efficiency - Criteria (page 13-1, delete subsection
and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: Buildings shall be designed and constructed in accordance with title
10 chapter 8 (Energy Conservation Code).
Subsection 1807.1.3 Rubble Stone Foundation Walls (page 18-7, delete
subsection)
   Delete: Entire subsection. Rubble stone foundation walls are not permitted.
Any other reference to rubble stone foundation walls in the building code is
hereby deleted.
Subsection 1807.1.4 Permanent Wood Foundation Systems (page 18-7, delete
subsection)
   Delete: Entire subsection. Permanent wood foundation systems are not
permitted. Any other reference to permanent wood foundation systems in the
building code is hereby deleted.
Subsection 1807.1.5 Concrete and Masonry Foundation Walls (page 18-7, delete
reference to masonry foundations)
   Delete: Reference to masonry foundations. Masonry foundation walls are not
permitted. Any other reference to masonry foundation walls in the building code
is hereby deleted.
Subsection 1809.9 Masonry-Unit Footings (page 18-16, delete subsection)
   Delete: Entire subsection. Masonry-unit footings are not permitted. Any
other reference to masonry-unit footings in the building code is hereby
deleted.
Subsection 1809.12 Timber Footings (page 18-17, delete subsection)
   Delete: Entire subsection. Timber footings are not permitted. Any other
reference to timber footings in the building code is hereby deleted.
Subsection 1907.2 Minimum Slab Provisions Under-Floor Space (page 19-5, insert
new subsection)
   Insert: Crawl space or under-floor surface shall be finished with an
approved vapor barrier minimum 6-mil thick (0.15 mm) under a slurry coat of
concrete, minimum two (2) inches (51 mm) in thickness.
Chapter 27 Electrical subsection 2701.1 Scope (page 27-1, add to subsection)
   Add: The design and installation of electrical systems shall conform to
title 10 chapter 4 (Electrical Code).
Chapter 28 Mechanical Systems subsection 2801.1 Scope (page 28-1, add to
subsection)
   Add: The design and installation of mechanical systems shall conform to
title 10 chapter 6 (Mechanical Code).
Chapter 29 Plumbing Systems (pages 29-1 through 29-6, delete chapter and
insert)
   Delete: Entire chapter.
   Insert: The design and installation of plumbing systems shall conform to
title 10 chapter 5 (Plumbing Code)
Subsection 3001.3 Reference Standards (page 30-1, add to end of paragraph)
   Add: Elevator and conveying systems shall be in conformance with state of
Illinois section 140 of the elevator safety and regulation act (225 ILCS 312/
140), and the administrative rules (41 Ill. adm. code 1000). Elevator and
conveying systems shall comply with following standards and guidelines or most
recent updates:
   1.   Safety code for elevators and escalators (ASME A17.1-2010/CSA B44-10)
and performance-based safety code for elevators and escalators (ASME A17.7-
2007/CSA B44.7-07).
   2.   Guide for inspection of elevators, escalators, and moving walks (ASME
A17.2-2010).
   3.   Safety code for existing elevators and escalators (ASME A17.3-2005)
upgrades required by section 35(h) of the elevator safety act shall be
completed in the time frame specified therein.
   4.   Safety standard for platform lifts and stairway chairlifts (ASME A18.1-
2008).
   5.   Standard for the qualification of elevator inspectors (ASME QEI-1-
2010).
   6.   Automated people mover standard (ASCE 21-05), part 1, 2005/2006.
   7.   Automated people mover standards (ANSI/ASCE/T&DI 21.2-08), parts 2, 3
and 4, 2008.
Subsection 3002.4 Elevator Car to Accommodate Ambulance Stretcher (page 30-2,
add to end of subsection)
   Add: In all buildings and structures serviced by an elevator, at least one
elevator shall be provided for fire department emergency access to all floors.
The minimum size of an elevator car shall be 54-inch by 82-inch (1371 mm by
2082 mm) and shall be equipped with a side-opening door, versus a center-
opening door, to accommodate the maneuvering of a 24-inch by 84-inch (610 mm by
2134 mm) ambulance stretcher in the horizontal open position.
Subsection [F] 3003.4 Emergency Signal Devices and Lighting (page 30-2, insert
new subsection)
   Insert: 3003.4 Emergency Signal Devices and Lighting. New and existing
passenger elevator cars and freight elevator cars which are located in
buildings shall provide in the car the following emergency signal devices
operable from within the car in accordance with sections 211 and 204.7 of the
most current edition of ANSI A17.1:
   1.   An electric signal bell not less than six (6) inches in diameter
located inside the building and audible outside the elevator hoist-way. Only
one bell is required for a group or bank of elevators if operable from all cars
in the group or bank, with battery back-up power.
   2.   An emergency call button in each elevator car shall be connected to the
central telephone emergency exchange system of the fire protection district
having jurisdiction. Call buttons (red in color) are to be installed no more
than forty-eight (48) inches in height as measured to the highest operable part
that is essential to the basic operation of the call button.
   3.   All emergency lighting in elevator cars, hoist-ways and related
equipment rooms shall be equipped with a battery back-up system in compliance
with current village electrical code regulations.
Subsection [F] 3003.5 Smoke Detectors (page 30-2, Elevators and Conveying
Systems, insert new subsection)
   Insert: 3003.5 Smoke Detectors. Smoke detectors shall be installed in each
elevator lobby at each floor, machine room and shaft/hoist-way in accordance
with NFPA 72E chapter 4. The activation of a smoke detector in any elevator
lobby, machine room or shaft/hoist-way other than at the designated level shall
cause all cars in all groups that serve that lobby to return non-stop to the
designated level.
Subsection 3102.1 Membrane Structures - General (page 31-1, add to subsection)
   Add: The installation of a membrane structure requires village building
permit.
Subsection 3103.1 Temporary Structures - General (page 31-2, delete subsection
and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: The provisions of this section shall apply to structures erected for
a period of less than 180 days. Structures to be in place for more than 180
days shall be considered permanent structures. Tents and other membrane
structures shall comply with all applicable requirements of this code and any
other applicable codes and ordinances of the village of Bloomingdale and the
Bloomingdale fire protection district. A village permit is required for any
installation.
Subsection 3105.1 Awnings and Canopies - General (page 31-4, add to subsection)
   Add: The installation of awnings and canopies shall also conform to title 11
chapter 14 (Sign Code).
Section 3106 Marquees (page 31-4, delete section)
   Delete: Entire section. Marquees are not permitted.
Section 3107 Signs (page 31-5, add to section)
   Add: The installation of signs shall conform to title 11 chapter 14 (Sign
Code).
Section 3109.1 Swimming Pools, Spas and Hot Tubs - General (page 31-5, add to
section)
   Add: The installation of private and public swimming pools, swimming pool
enclosures and safety devices shall also conform to title 10 chapter 11 (Pool
Code).
Chapter 32 Encroachments into the Public Right-Of-Way (page 32-1, delete
section)
   Delete: Entire section. Encroachments into the public right-of-way are not
permitted.
Chapter 35 Referenced Standards (pages 35-23 through 35-25, insert NFPA
standards)
   Insert: All referenced NFPA standards shall refer to the most current
standards available.
Chapter 36 Driveways and Off-Street Parking Areas (new chapter)
   Subsection 3601: Driveway/Off-Street Parking Area Permit. No person shall
hereafter alter, construct, build or establish any driveway or off-street
parking area without first obtaining a village permit.
   Subsection 3602: Application for Permit. Application for a permit for a
driveway and/or off-street parking area installation or improvement shall be
filed with the building commissioner and shall contain the name and address of
the person making the application and the name and address of the owner of the
property to be served by such driveway and/or off-street parking installation
or improvement, together with the proposed location and plans and
specifications for such work.
   Subsection 3603: Approval by Building Commissioner. No permit shall be
issued for any work to be done in any way about the construction of any
driveway or off-street parking area installation or improvement until the plans
and specifications therefor have been submitted to and approved by the building
commissioner. (Ord. 2016-13, 3-14-2016; amd. Ord. 2020-04, 2-10-2020; Ord.
2023-02, 2-13-2023)
10-2-3: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Compliance Required: It shall be unlawful to design, construct, alter,
move, enlarge, replace, repair, demolish, remove, use or maintain property,
buildings or structures in the village in violation of the terms and provisions
of this chapter.
   B.   Application to Existing Permits: This chapter shall not be construed to
extend to or affect any construction activity for which a permit was issued or
application for permit filed prior to the effective date hereof, except for
fees not yet due or payable, unless the building commissioner determines that
any provision of this chapter or the regulations incorporated herein by
reference should be applied for reasons of public health and safety. (Ord.
2016-13, 3-14-2016; amd. Ord. 2020-04, 2-10-2020; Ord. 2023-02, 2-13-2023)
10-2-4: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms and provisions of this
chapter shall be liable for a penalty in the amount of one hundred percent
(100%) of any unpaid fee and, in addition, shall be punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2016-13, 3-14-2016; amd. Ord. 2020-04, 2-10-2020;
Ord. 2023-02, 2-13-2023)
CHAPTER 3
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
10-3-1: Village Residential Building Code
10-3-2: Amendments To Code
10-3-3: Compliance Required
10-3-4: Penalties
10-3-1: VILLAGE RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE:
The one- and two-family and multiple-family (townhouse) dwelling code of the
village (hereinafter referred to as the "residential building code") shall
hereafter be identical with the provisions of that publication entitled
"International Residential Code, 2021 Edition" and which is incorporated herein
by reference as if fully set forth, except as amended in section
10-3-2 of this chapter. Three (3) copies of the international residential code
are on file in the office of the village clerk and are available for public
inspection at all times during regular business hours as provided by law. (Ord.
2016-13, 3-14-2016; amd. Ord. 2020-04, 2-10-2020; Ord. 2023-02, 2-13-2023)
10-3-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
Additions, insertions, changes and deletions to sections of the residential
building code are hereby revised as follows:
Subsection R101.1 Title (Page 1-1, Name of Jurisdiction, insert second line)
   Insert: village of Bloomingdale.
Subsection R101.2 Scope (Page 1-1, addition to eighth line)
   Add: Attached dwelling units shall be vertically separated by a U.L. listed
three (3) hour rated fire resistive masonry wall assembly in compliance with
Subsections R302.2 and R302.3 as amended, with an STC rating of not less than
50 with a separate means of egress.
Subsection R101.4 Zoning (Page 1-1, new subsection)
   Add: Zoning - The restrictions of the Village Code zoning regulations and
all amendments thereto, shall not be deemed to be modified by any provision of
this code; and such restrictions shall be controlling except insofar as this
code imposes greater restrictions by reason of the type of construction used,
in which case the provisions of this code shall control.
Subsection R101.5 Legislative (Page 1-1, new subsection)
   Add: Legislative - If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of
this ordinance is, or shall be for any reason held to be invalid, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance. The
village board hereby declares that it would have passed this ordinance, and
each section, subsection, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact
that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses and phrases be
declared invalid.
Subsection R103.1 Department of Building Safety (Page 1-2, Creation of
Enforcement Agency)
   Change: The building and zoning department shall be charged with the
enforcement of the residential building code, and the building commissioner
shall be known as the building official.
Subsection R105.2 Work Exempt from Permits (Pages 1-3 and 1-4, building
section)
   Delete: Building permit exemptions 1 through 10.
Subsection R105.5 Permit Expiration (Page 1-5)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: Permit expiration shall be governed by title 10, chapter 1 of the
village code.
Subsection R106.1 Construction Documents (Page 1-6, Submittal Documents, add to
ninth line)
   Insert: Unless otherwise specified by the building commissioner, each
application shall be accompanied by a minimum of four sets of drawings and
specifications signed and sealed by an architect licensed to practice
architecture as provided by the Illinois architectural act, or by a structural
engineer licensed to practice structural engineering as provided by the
Illinois architectural act, or by the owner of said proposed building when it
is determined to be sufficient by the building commissioner. To obtain a
permit, the owner or his representative shall file an application on a form
furnished by the village for that purpose, and shall include a signed statement
indicating the proposed occupancy or use of all parts of the building and the
estimated construction cost thereof.
Subsection R110.1.1 Final Occupancy Inspection (Page 1-8, Final Occupancy
Inspection, new subsection)
   Insert: Unlawful to Occupy Building Before Final Inspection. No building or
part thereof, hereafter erected, or the structure of which shall hereafter be
altered or repaired and for which erection, alteration or repair a permit shall
be required as provided in sections R105 and R106 of this chapter, and no
existing building in which the character of the occupancy is to be changed,
shall be occupied or used in whole or in part until a certificate of occupancy
shall have been issued by the building commissioner. Such certificate shall
carry the certification of the building commissioner that said building or part
thereof conforms to the requirements of this code and any other applicable
village ordinance; and that said building, construction, alteration, or repair
has been substantially completed in accordance with the plans and
specifications upon which the building permit required by this chapter was
issued.
Subsection R110.2 Change in Use (Page 1-8, Occupancy Certificate Requirements,
replace entire subsection)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: Certificate of Occupancy Required for Change in Use or Occupancy. No
building upon which a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued shall be
used for a different classification or group occupancy until a certificate of
occupancy for such different use shall have been issued by the building
commissioner; provided, however, that no certificate of occupancy shall be
issued in any event unless the occupancy or use of the building complies with
title 11 (Zoning Regulations) of the village code. "Change of occupancy" is not
intended to mean change of tenant or proprietor, provided the new tenant is to
occupy the building for a purpose, which would not involve its reclassification
into a different occupancy group.
Subsection R110.4 Temporary Occupancy (Page 1-8, Occupancy Certificate
Requirements, addition to subsection)
   Insert: A cash performance bond, or other method of surety acceptable to the
building commissioner, shall be posted in the amount of one hundred and ten
percent (110%) of the cost of the remaining work necessary for a certificate of
occupancy to be issued. Completion of the incomplete work and the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy shall be secured prior to the expiration date of the
temporary occupancy. Failure to comply with this occupancy requirement shall
constitute a violation of this chapter and shall punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of the village code.
Section R112 Appeals (Page 1-9, Board of Appeals)
   Delete: Entire section.
   Insert: That any person, firm or corporation shall have the right to appeal
a decision of the building commissioner to the zoning board of appeals. Means
of appeal shall follow requirements set forth in section 11-3-7 (Appeals) of
the village code.
Section R115 Building Condemnation (Page 1-9, Condemnation Order, new
subsection)
   Insert: R115.1 Existing Buildings Contrary to Code. If the building
commissioner finds that any building or other structure has become dangerous to
life, limb or property or to the public because of structural defects,
deterioration, or fire damage, or has become so unsanitary or out of repair as
to render the same unsafe and unfit for occupancy or human habitation, it shall
be deemed a nuisance, and the building commissioner shall declare such building
or other structure a nuisance and shall condemn the same, and no person, firm
or corporation shall occupy, rent, lease or use such building or other
structure. The violations of the provisions of this section shall constitute a
misdemeanor, and any person, firm or corporation found guilty of a violation
thereof shall be subject to a fine in the manner and amount as provided by
section
1-4-1 of the village code.
Subsection R115.2 Rebuilding or Removal After Notice of Condemnation (Page 1-9,
Rebuilding or Removal, new subsection)
   Insert: R115.2 Rebuilding or removal must begin within five (5) days of
condemnation notice. Any building or other structure condemned and declared to
be a nuisance by the building commissioner under the provisions of subsection
R115.1 of this chapter shall be put in a safe or sanitary condition or be
demolished and removed. Within five (5) days after the service of notice in the
manner and form provided in subsection R115.3 and R115.4 of this chapter, to
make such building or other structure safe or sanitary or to remove and
demolish the same, the owner or owners or the party or parties interested
therein shall proceed to begin the work of making said building or other
structure safe or sanitary or the work of removing and demolishing the same and
shall prosecute said work continuously without unnecessary delay to completion;
provided, however, that should the owner or person in possession of said
building or structure deem himself aggrieved by any direction to repair or
remove such building or other structure alleged by the building commissioner to
be a nuisance, he shall, within a period of five (5) days after the giving of
the notice as required by subsection R115.3 and subsection R115.4 in this
chapter, have the right to appeal in writing, from the judgement of the
building commissioner to the planning and zoning commission, which shall make
the investigation and report its findings to the village board. If in the
judgement of the village board upon consideration of the report of the planning
and zoning commission, said building or other structure is unsafe or unsanitary
and should be declared a nuisance, it shall order the owner or other person in
possession of the building or other structure to begin the work of making safe
or sanitary or of demolishing and removing said building or other structure.
Subsection R115.3 Notification of Unsafe Buildings (Page 1-9, Notice of Unsafe
Buildings, new subsection)
   Insert: R115.3 Building Commissioner to Give Notice in Writing on Unsafe
Buildings - Method of Service. Whenever the building commissioner shall under
the provision of subsection R115.1 in this chapter, condemn and declare any
building or other structure to be a nuisance because of dangerous or unsanitary
condition, he shall cause a notice in writing to be served upon the owner or
owners, upon the tenant and occupant, if any, and upon the holder or holders of
any encumbrances or general tax lien, if any, ordering and directing said
building or other structure to be put in a safe or sanitary condition or be
demolished and removed. Service of said notice may be effected by personal
delivery, or by mailing a copy by registered mail directed to the person
involved, at his last address known to the building commissioner or available
to him upon examination of the property tax records of DuPage County, Illinois,
and by posting a copy upon the premises subject to such condemnation.
Subsection R115.4 Noncompliance with Notification of Unsafe Buildings (Page 1-
9, Noncompliance Procedures, new subsection)
   Insert: R115.4 Procedures Upon Failure to Comply After Notice. Upon the
failure of the owners of said building or other structure, or the party or
parties interested therein, within five (5) days after the service of the
notice provided in subsection R115.3 of this chapter or upon the failure to
comply with an order of the village board as provided in subsection R115.2 of
this chapter to begin the work of making safe or sanitary or of removing and
demolishing said building or other structure, or upon the failure of the owner
or owners or the party or parties of interest after beginning such work to
proceed continuously without unnecessary delay to completion, the village may
take any action at law or in equity to restrain the use of such structure, or
may proceed against the owner or any person in possession of the same in a
penal action before the circuit court for violation of the provisions of this
chapter. The village may also, in its discretion, cause said structure to be
secured to prevent access, cleaned of unsanitary conditions detrimental to the
public or removed in its entirety, after the failure, within the time provided
for, to restore the same to a safe condition.
Subsection R115.5 Reconstruction (Page 1-9, Reconstruction Requirements, new
subsection)
   Insert: R115.5 Reconstruction to Conform to Requirements for New Structures
If Cost Exceeds 50% Of Value. A structure declared unsafe by the building
commissioner may be restored to safe condition as provided in section R115.2 of
this chapter; provided that if the damage or cost of reconstruction or
restoration is in excess of 50% of the value of the structure if reconstructed
or restored, it shall be made to conform, with respect to materials and type of
construction, to the requirements for new structures as provided for in this
chapter.
Section R202 Definitions (Pages 2-16, [RB] Townhouse Unit, add to third line)
   Addition: Adjoining townhouse units shall be constructed in compliance with
section R302.2 as amended with an STC rating of not less than 50. Two-family
dwellings (duplex) are considered the same as a townhouse.
Table R301.2 (1) Climatic and Geographic Design Criteria (Page 3-3,
Information, insert)
   Ground Snow Load - 30 pounds per square foot.
   Wind Speed - 115 miles per hour.
   Topographic Effects - No
   Seismic Design Category - A.
   Damage From Weathering - Severe.
   Frost Line Depth - Forty-two (42) inches.
   Damage From Termites - Moderate to Heavy.
   Damage From Decay - Slight to Moderate.
   Winter Design Temperature - -4 degrees F.
   Ice Barrier Underlayment Required - Yes.
   Flood Hazards - See current FIRM and FBFM maps.
   Air Freezing Index - 1700 cumulative degree days below 32 degrees F.
   Mean Annual Temperature - 49.4 degrees F.
Subsection R302.1 Exterior Walls (Page 3-33, line 6)
   Add: All one (1) hour wall and projection ratings listed in table R302.1(1)
shall be changed to not less than three (3) hour fire-resistive rated with
exposure ratings from both sides, unless adjacent buildings are equipped
throughout with an automatic sprinkler system in compliance with NFPA 13D.
Three (3) hour walls are to be masonry construction only.
Subsection R302.2.2 Townhouses (Page 3-34, change wall assembly within Items 1
and 2)
   Change: Item 1, line 3, 2-hour fire-resistance-rated
   Change: Item 2, line 3, 3-hour fire-resistance-rated masonry
Subsection R302.3 Two-Family Dwellings (Page 3-35, delete entire subsection and
insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: Two-family dwelling units shall be separated and constructed to meet
the same requirements as a townhouse.
Subsection R302.6 Dwelling- Garage Separation (Page 3-37, Table R302.6)
   Change: ... 5/8 -inch (15.9 mm) type "X" fire code gypsum board material
shall be required for all separations (Changed from 1/2 -inch (12.7 mm) gypsum
board).
Subsection R309.1 Floor Surface (Page 3-46, change first sentence)
   Change: Garage floor surfaces shall be improved with portland cement
concrete, 3,500 psi, not less than four (4) inches (102 mm) in thickness over
compacted crushed aggregate base not less than four (4) inches (102 mm) in
thickness. Vapor barrier minimum 6 mil in thickness shall be installed where
living area exists above garage space. Garage floor surfaces attached to living
area shall be provided with a six (6) inch (153 mm) concrete gas curb, above
the floor surface, adjacent to the living area portion of the building. If
building foundation extends the minimum six (6) inches above floor surface, it
can serve as the gas curb.
Subsection R309.2 Carports (Page 3-46, add after second sentence)
   Add: Carport floor and gas curb requirements and area requirements shall be
the same as amended requirements for garages in subsection R309.1.
Subsection R310.4.4 Bars, Grills, Covers and Screens (Page 3-47, addition to
end of subsection)
   Add: Window well covers are to be able to support a minimum 250-pound weight
load.
Subsection R312.1.3 Guard Opening Limitations (Page 3-51, add after first
sentence, fourth line)
   Add: Required guards shall not be constructed with horizontal rails or other
ornamental pattern that results in a ladder effect.
Subsection R313.1 Townhouse automatic fire sprinkler systems (page 3-52, add to
subsection)
   Add: Provide an outside UL Listed weatherproof audio/visual device on the
front elevation of the dwelling unit visible from the public right-of-way in a
location approved by the fire code official. The visual device shall be
equipped with a blue lens. The warning device on the interior of the dwelling
is required to be heard in all sleeping rooms.
Subsection R313.2 One- and two-family dwellings automatic fire sprinkler
systems (page 3-52, add to subsection)
   Add: Provide an outside UL Listed weatherproof audio/visual device on the
front elevation of the dwelling unit visible from the public right-of-way in a
location approved by the fire code official. The visual device shall be
equipped with a blue lens. The warning device on the interior of the dwelling
is required to be heard in all sleeping rooms.
Subsection R319.1 Site Address - Premises Identification (Page 3-58, add to end
of subsection)
   Add: Addresses are not permitted on garage doors. Address numbers on
mailboxes shall be installed on both sides of the mailbox.
Subsection R402.1 Wood Foundations (Pages 4-1 and 4-2, delete entire
subsection)
   Delete: Entire subsection. Wood foundations not permitted.
Subsection R403.2 Footings for Wood Foundations (Page 4-12, delete entire
subsection)
   Delete: Entire subsection. Wood foundations not permitted.
Subsection R404.2 Wood Foundation Walls (Page 4-40, delete entire subsection)
   Delete: Entire subsection. Wood foundations not permitted.
Subsection R405.1 Foundation Drainage - Concrete or Masonry Foundations (Page
4-42, delete masonry, second line of subsection)
   Delete: "masonry" in second line of subsection.
Subsection R405.2 Wood Foundations (Page 4-43, delete entire subsection)
   Delete: Entire subsection. Wood foundations not permitted.
Subsection R405.3 Drainage System Discharge (Page 4-43, add new subsection)
   Add: The drainage system sump shall discharge to grade a minimum of three
(3) feet (914 mm) from the exterior wall of the building. Sump pump discharge
shall not be connected to the sanitary sewer. Splash blocks shall be required
at all sump pump discharge lines. Splash blocks shall be constructed of
concrete or other material acceptable to the building commissioner and be
designed to carry water at least three (3) feet (914 mm) but not more than five
(5) feet from the exterior wall of the building. It shall be mandatory to carry
the water flow away from the direction of the adjacent side lot so that the
water will not empty onto such property as it flows from the sump pump
discharge. If an underground drainage system is used to carry sump discharge
water away from the building instead of using splash blocks, there shall be an
"air-gap" between the discharge pipe at the house prior to entering the sump
extension. Sump pump discharge shall be dispersed so as not to saturate the
ground or run off into adjacent properties. Sump pump discharge water shall not
accumulate on to public walkways.
Subsection R406.3 Damp Proofing for Wood Foundations (Page 4-43, delete entire
subsection)
   Delete: Entire subsection. Wood foundations not permitted.
Subsection R408.6 Under-Floor Space, Finished Grade (Page 4-45, line 8)
   Addition: Crawl space or under-floor surface shall be finished with an
approved vapor barrier minimum 6 mil thick (0.15 mm) under a slurry coat of
concrete, minimum two (2) inches (51 mm) in thickness.
Subsection R504 Pressure Preservative Treated-Wood Floors, On Ground (Page 5-
12, delete entire subsection)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
Table R702.3.5 Minimum Thickness and Application of Gypsum Board (Page 7-4,
deletion)
   Delete: Use of any referenced single layer 3/8 -inch (9 mm) drywall
installations - not permitted.
Subsection R801.3 Roof Drainage (Page 8-1, delete entire subsection and insert
new subsection)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: Gutters shall be installed on all roofs with back edge not less than
one (1) inch (25.4 mm) higher than the front (outside) edge. All gutters and
downspouts shall be securely fastened to the building. Downspouts shall not be
connected to the sanitary or storm sewer. Splash blocks are required at the
bottom of downspouts and shall be construction of concrete or other material
acceptable to the building commissioner and shall be designed to carry water at
least three (3) feet (914 mm) but not more than five (5) feet (1523 mm) from
the exterior wall of the building. It shall be mandatory to carry the water
flow away from the direction of the adjacent side lot so that the water will
not empty onto such property as it flows from the downspout channel. If an
underground drainage system is used to carry downspout discharge water away
from the building instead of using splash blocks, there shall be an "air-gap"
between the downspout discharge at the house prior to entering the downspout
extension. Downspout discharge shall be dispersed so as not to saturate the
ground or run off into adjacent properties. Downspout discharge water shall not
accumulate on to public walkways.
Chapter 11 Energy Efficiency (Pages 11-1 through 11-64, delete entire chapter -
insert)
   Delete: Entire chapter.
   Insert: The design and construction of buildings and associated systems and
equipment shall conform to the current provisions of the village of
Bloomingdale energy code title 10, chapter 8.
Chapter 22 Special Piping and Storage Systems (Pages 22-1 and 22-2, delete
entire chapter - Fuel Oil Installations)
   Delete: Entire chapter. Installations not permitted.
Chapter 25 Plumbing Administration (Pages 25-1 and 25-2, delete entire chapter
- insert)
   Delete: Entire chapter.
   Insert: The design and installation of plumbing systems shall conform to the
current provisions of the village of Bloomingdale plumbing code title 10,
chapter 5.
Chapter 26 General Plumbing Requirements (Pages 26-1 through 26-4, delete
entire chapter - insert)
   Delete: Entire chapter.
   Insert: The design and installation of plumbing systems shall conform to the
current provisions of the village of Bloomingdale plumbing code title 10,
chapter 5.
Chapter 27 Plumbing Fixtures (Pages 27-1 through 27-2, delete entire chapter -
insert)
   Delete: Entire chapter.
   Insert: The design and installation of plumbing systems shall conform to the
current provisions of the village of Bloomingdale plumbing code title 10,
chapter 5.
Chapter 28 Water Heaters (Pages 28-1 and 28-2, delete entire chapter - insert)
   Delete: Entire chapter.
   Insert: The design and installation of plumbing systems shall conform to the
current provisions of the village of Bloomingdale plumbing code title 10,
chapter 5.
Chapter 29 Water Supply and Distribution (Pages through 29-1 through 29-32,
delete entire chapter - insert)
   Delete: Entire chapter.
   Insert: The design and installation of plumbing systems shall conform to the
current provisions of the village of Bloomingdale plumbing code title 10,
chapter 5.
Chapter 30 Sanitary Drainage (Pages 30-1 through 30-14, delete entire chapter -
insert)
   Delete: Entire chapter.
   Insert: The design and installation of plumbing systems shall conform to the
current provisions of the village of Bloomingdale plumbing code title 10,
chapter 5.
Chapter 31 Vents (Pages 31-1 through 31-6, delete entire chapter - insert)
   Delete: Entire chapter.
   Insert: The design and installation of plumbing systems shall conform to the
current provisions of the village of Bloomingdale plumbing code title 10,
chapter 5.
Chapter 32 Traps (Pages 32-1 and 32-2, delete entire chapter - insert)
   Delete: Entire chapter.
   Insert: The design and installation of plumbing systems shall conform to the
current provisions of the village of Bloomingdale plumbing code title 10,
chapter 5.
Chapter 34 General Requirements - Electrical (Pages 34-1 through 34-8, delete
entire chapter - insert)
   Delete: Entire chapter.
   Insert: All electrical equipment and installations shall conform to the
current provisions of the village of Bloomingdale electrical code title 10,
chapter 4.
Chapter 35 Electrical Definitions (Pages 35-1 through 35-5, delete entire
chapter - insert)
   Delete: Entire chapter.
   Insert: All electrical equipment and installations shall conform to the
current provisions of the village of Bloomingdale electrical code title 10,
chapter 4.
Chapter 36 Services (Pages 36-1 through 36-12, delete entire chapter - insert)
   Delete: Entire chapter.
   Insert: All electrical equipment and installations shall conform to the
current provisions of the village of Bloomingdale electrical code chapter 10,
title 4.
Chapter 37 Branch Circuit and Feeder Requirements (Pages 37-1 through 37-8,
delete entire chapter - insert)
   Delete: Entire chapter.
   Insert: All electrical equipment and installations shall conform to the
current provisions of the village of Bloomingdale electrical code chapter 10,
title 4.
Chapter 38 Wiring Methods (Pages 38-1 through 38-5, delete entire chapter -
insert)
   Delete: Entire chapter.
   Insert: All electrical equipment and installations shall conform to the
current provisions of the village of Bloomingdale electrical code chapter 10,
title 4.
Chapter 39 Power and Lighting Distribution (Pages 39-1 through 39-29, delete
entire chapter - insert)
   Delete: Entire chapter.
   Insert: All electrical equipment and installations shall conform to the
current provisions of the village of Bloomingdale electrical code chapter 10,
title 4.
Chapter 40 Devices and Luminaires (Pages 40-1 through 40-7, delete entire
chapter - insert)
   Delete: Entire chapter.
   Insert: All electrical equipment and installations shall conform to the
current provisions of the village of Bloomingdale electrical code chapter 10,
title 4.
Chapter 41 Appliance Installation (Pages 41-1 through 41-3, delete entire
chapter - insert)
   Delete: Entire chapter.
   Insert: All electrical equipment and installations shall conform to the
current provisions of the village of Bloomingdale electrical code chapter 10,
title 4.
Chapter 42 Swimming Pools (Pages 42-1 through 42-13, delete entire chapter -
insert)
   Delete: Entire chapter.
   Insert: All electrical equipment and installations shall conform to the
current provisions of the village of Bloomingdale electrical code chapter 10,
title 4.
Chapter 43 Class 2 Remote Control, Signaling, And Power- Limited Circuits
(Pages 43-1 and 43-3, delete entire chapter - insert)
   Delete: Entire chapter.
   Insert: All electrical equipment and installations shall conform to the
current provisions of the village of Bloomingdale electrical code chapter 10,
title 4.
Chapter 45 Driveways (new chapter)
   Section R4501: Driveway Permit and Construction Requirements. No person
shall hereafter alter, construct, build or establish any driveway without first
obtaining a village permit. Driveway sub-grade to be minimum 6 inch (152 mm)
thick crushed and compacted CA-6 aggregate, with concrete surface to be minimum
6 inch (152 mm) thick.
   Section R4502: Application for Permit. Application for a permit for a
driveway, shall be filed with the building commissioner and shall contain the
name and address of the person making the application and the name and address
of the owner of the property to be served by such driveway, together with the
proposed location and plans and specifications for such driveway.
   Section 4503: Approval by Building Commissioner. No permit shall be issued
for any work to be done in any way about the construction of any driveway until
the plans and specifications therefore have been submitted to and approved by
the building commissioner.
Chapter 46 Safety Fencing (new chapter)
   Section R4601: If required by the building commissioner for life safety,
residential construction projects are required to have minimum 72" tall safety
fence above grade around the entire perimeter of the construction project area.
Fencing must be installed prior to commencement of construction.
Chapter 47 Temporary Storage (new chapter)
   Section R4701: Any type of temporary storage on residentially zoned property
requires village of Bloomingdale Temporary Land Use Permit. Duration of storage
is not to exceed thirty (30) days. Extension of time may be considered and is
at the discretion of the building commissioner based on approval of documented
hardship.
Chapter 48 Radon Gas Controls (new chapter)
   Section R4801: New dwelling unit construction, additions and remodeling
shall be built in compliance with radon gas controls as provided in Appendix AF
of the International Residential Code, 2021 edition, pages AF-1 through AF-10,
unless waived by the Building Commissioner. Radon testing as required by the
Building Commissioner shall be performed by an Illinois licensed contractor.
Copy of contractor license issued by the Illinois Emergency Management Agency
Division of Nuclear Safety shall be submitted with copy of radon test report
results. (Ord. 2016-13, 3-14-2016; amd. Ord. 2020-04, 2-10-2020; Ord. 2023-02,
2-13-2023)
10-3-3: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to design, construct, alter, move, enlarge, replace,
repair, demolish, remove, use or maintain one- and two-family dwellings and
accessory structures in the village in violation of the terms and provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 2016-13, 3-14-2016; amd. Ord. 2020-04, 2-10-2020; Ord.
2023-02, 2-13-2023)
10-3-4: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms and provisions of this
chapter shall be liable for a penalty in the amount of one hundred percent
(100%) of any unpaid fee and, in addition, shall be punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2016-13, 3-14-2016; amd. Ord. 2020-04, 2-10-2020;
Ord. 2023-02, 2-13-2023)
CHAPTER 3A
HOMEOWNERS' ASSOCIATION ARCHITECTURAL APPROVAL
SECTION:
10-3A-1: Approval Prerequisite To Building Permit Issuance
10-3A-2: Approval Procedures
10-3A-3: Penalties
10-3A-1: APPROVAL PREREQUISITE TO BUILDING PERMIT ISSUANCE:
From and after the effective date hereof, no building permit shall be issued by
the building commissioner for any construction requiring prior written approval
by a registered homeowners' association or by a registered architectural review
committee or subcommittee of such association unless written evidence of such
approval is submitted to the building commissioner. (Ord. 2013-13, 2-25-2013)
10-3A-2: APPROVAL PROCEDURES:
   A.   Applicant's Responsibility: It shall be the responsibility of any
applicant for a building permit to secure and submit any required association
or committee approval; provided, however, that any homeowners' association or
architectural review committee or subcommittee may submit such approval
directly to the building commissioner.
   B.   Contents Of Application: All applications for a building permit for any
construction, improvements, additions, alterations or repairs of any single-
family residence, residential accessory building or accessory structure shall
contain either a statement under oath by the applicant that the applicant
agrees to obtain any required approvals by an architectural review committee or
subcommittee of any homeowners' association having jurisdiction, or a
representation under oath that, after due and diligent inquiry, the applicant
has determined that no such approvals are required.
   C.   Falsifying Data: Any permit which is issued by the building
commissioner based upon purported architectural approval by homeowners'
association or architectural review committee or subcommittee, or upon the
representation that no approvals are required, is subject to immediate
revocation by the building commissioner in the event that such representation
is determined to be false, regardless of the intent of the applicant. Any
appeal from a revocation of any permit shall be as otherwise heretofore
provided by the building code adopted in section
10-3-2 of this title or other applicable ordinances. (Ord. 2013-13, 2-25-2013)
10-3A-3: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms and provisions of this
chapter shall be liable for a penalty in the amount of one hundred percent
(100%) of any unpaid fee and, in addition, shall be punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. (Ord. 2013-13, 2-25-2013)
CHAPTER 4
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
10-4-1: Village Electrical Code
10-4-2: Amendments To Code
10-4-3: Compliance Required; Application Of Provisions
10-4-4: Penalties
10-4-1: VILLAGE ELECTRICAL CODE:
The electrical code of the village (hereinafter referred to as the "electrical
code") shall hereafter be identical with the provisions of that publication
entitled the NFPA national electrical code, 2020 edition (the "national
electrical code") and which is incorporated herein by reference as if fully set
forth, except as amended in section
10-4-2 of this chapter. At least three (3) copies of the national electrical
code are on file with the village clerk and are available for public inspection
at all times during regular business hours as provided by law. (Ord. 2016-13,
3-14-2016; amd. Ord. 2020-04, 2-10-2020; Ord. 2023-02, 2-13-2023)
10-4-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
Additions and deletions of sections of the electrical code are as follows:
Article 90-10 Electrical Contractor Requirement (page 70-31, add new article
section).
   Add: All electrical work requires a village permit subject to the
requirements of title 10, chapter 1 of the village code and shall be performed
by a licensed electrical contractor. A photocopy of the electrical contractor's
license and certificate of insurance must be submitted to the building
commissioner prior to permit issuance. Only electrical licenses obtained
through competency testing will be accepted. Any electrical work, for which a
permit is required, performed on village of Bloomingdale property or right-of-
way requires the village of Bloomingdale to be listed as an additional insured
on the certificate of insurance and that the electrical contractor submit an
executed permittee indemnity signature page with the permit application.
   Prior to the issuance of an electrical permit, a bond in the minimum amount
of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), except where work to be performed exceeds
the minimum bond amount the bond shall be for the actual cost of work to be
performed, shall be executed by a surety company authorized to transact
business in the state of Illinois as surety on the bond with the applicant as
principal on the bond, and the village of Bloomingdale as obligee, for its
benefit, and at the discretion of the village of Bloomingdale, that of
consumers dealing with the applicant, conditioned that the applicant shall
faithfully perform the duties without damage to surrounding private or public
properties and in all things comply with village of Bloomingdale codes and
ordinances pertaining to the applied for permit. The bond shall remain until
the issuance of final inspection approval and/or final certificate of
occupancy.
Article 100-I Definitions - General - Authority Having Jurisdiction (page 70-
32, line 4 addition).
   Add: The building and zoning department shall be charged with the
enforcement of the electrical code, and the building commissioner shall be
known as the code official, authority having jurisdiction.
Article 210-8 Ground Fault Circuit-Interrupter Protection for Personnel (page
70-63, addition).
   Add: (F) Building and zoning department inspector reserves the right to
require ground-fault circuit-interrupter protection where a potential hazard
may exist.
Article 320 Armored Cable Type AC (pages 70-190 and 191, delete article).
   Delete: Entire article. Use not permitted.
Article 326 Integrated Gas Spacer Cable Type IGS (pages 70-194 and 195, delete
article).
   Delete: Entire article. Use not permitted.
Article 330 Metal-Clad Cable Type MC (pages 70-195 through 197, delete
article).
   Delete: Entire article. Use not permitted.
Article 332 Mineral-Insulated, Metal-Sheathed Cable Type MI (pages 70-197 and
198, delete article).
   Delete: Entire article. Use not permitted.
Article 334 Nonmetallic-Sheathed Cable Types NM, NMC And NMS (pages 70-198
through 200, delete article).
   Delete: Entire article. Use not permitted.
Article 340 Underground Feeder and Branch-Circuit Cable Type UF. Section II
Installation, 340.10(4) installed as nonmetallic-sheathed cable (page 70-204,
delete subsection).
   Delete: Entire subsection. Installation as nonmetallic-sheathed cable not
permitted.
Article 362 Electrical Nonmetallic Tubing Type ENT (pages 70-220 and 222,
delete article).
   Delete: Entire article. Use not permitted.
Article 394 Concealed Knob-And-Tube Wiring (page 70-246, delete article).
   Delete: Entire article. Use not permitted.
Article 398 Open Wiring on Insulators (pages 70-247 and 249, delete article).
   Delete: Entire article. Use not permitted.
Article 410, 410.10 II. Luminaire (Fixture) In Specific Locations, (A) Wet And
Damp Locations (page 70-278, seventh line, addition).
   Add: Installation of outdoor luminaires (fixtures) on the exterior of a
property shall be installed so as to not cause glare or excessive amounts of
light onto neighboring property or onto public property/right-of-way, thereby
creating a public nuisance or hazard, as determined by the building
commissioner.
(Ord. 2016-13, 3-14-2016; amd. Ord. 2020-04, 2-10-2020; Ord. 2023-02, 2-13-
2023)
10-4-3: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Compliance Required: It shall be unlawful to design, install,
construct, reconstruct, alter or use/maintain electrical systems in any
building or structure in the village in violation of the terms and provisions
of this chapter.
   B.   Application to Existing Permits: This chapter shall not be construed to
extend to or affect any construction activity for which a permit was issued or
application for permit filed prior to the effective date hereof, except for
fees not yet due or payable, unless the building commissioner determines that
any provision of this chapter or the regulations incorporated herein by
reference should be applied for reasons of public health and safety. (Ord.
2016-13, 3-14-2016; amd. Ord. 2020-04, 2-10-2020; Ord. 2023-02, 2-13-2023)
10-4-4: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms and provisions of this
chapter shall be liable for a penalty in the amount of one hundred percent
(100%) of any unpaid fee and, in addition, shall be punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. (Ord. 2016-13, 3-14-2016; amd. Ord.
2020-04, 2-10-2020; Ord. 2023-02, 2-13-2023)
CHAPTER 5
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
10-5-1: Village Plumbing Code
10-5-2: Compliance And Permit Required
10-5-3: State Licensed Contractors
10-5-4: Application Of Provisions
10-5-5: Penalties
10-5-1: VILLAGE PLUMBING CODE:
The plumbing code of the village (hereinafter referred to as the "plumbing
code") shall hereafter be identical with the provisions of that publication
entitled "Illinois plumbing code, 2014 edition", and which is incorporated
herein by reference as if fully set forth by this chapter. (Ord. 2014-49, 11-
10-2014)
10-5-2: COMPLIANCE AND PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to design, install, construct, reconstruct, alter, use or
maintain plumbing systems in any building or structure or on property in the
village in violation of the terms and provisions of this chapter. A village
building permit is required for all plumbing work to be performed, subject to
all applicable village permit fees. (Ord. 2014-49, 11-10-2014)
10-5-3: STATE LICENSED CONTRACTORS:
All plumbing work shall be installed by an Illinois licensed plumbing
contractor. A photocopy of the plumbing contractor's license shall be submitted
to the building commissioner prior to permit issuance. (Ord. 2014-49, 11-10-
2014)
10-5-4: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
This chapter shall not be construed to extend to or affect any construction
activity for which a permit was issued or application for permit filed prior to
the effective date hereof, except for fees not yet due or payable, unless the
building commissioner determines that any provision of this chapter or the
regulations incorporated herein by reference should be applied for reasons of
public health and safety. (Ord. 2014-49, 11-10-2014)
10-5-5: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms and provisions of this
chapter shall be liable for a penalty in the amount of one hundred percent
(100%) of any unpaid fee and, in addition, shall be punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. (Ord. 2014-49, 11-10-2014)
CHAPTER 6
MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
10-6-1: Village Mechanical Code
10-6-2: Amendments To Code
10-6-3: Compliance Required; Application Of Provisions
10-6-4: Penalties
10-6-1: VILLAGE MECHANICAL CODE:
The mechanical code of the village (hereinafter referred to as the "mechanical
code") shall hereafter be identical with the provisions of that publication
entitled international mechanical code, 2021 edition, and which is incorporated
herein by reference as if fully set forth, except as amended in section
10-6-2 of this chapter. At least three (3) copies of the international
mechanical code are on file with the village clerk and are available for public
inspection at all times during regular business hours as provided by law. (Ord.
2016-13, 3-14-2016; amd. Ord. 2020-04, 2-10-2020; Ord. 2023-02, 2-13-2023)
10-6-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
Additions, insertions, changes and deletions to sections of the international
mechanical code are hereby revised as follows:
Subsection [A]101.1 Title (page 1-1, Name of Jurisdiction, insert in second
line).
   Insert: The village of Bloomingdale.
Subsection [A]103.1 Creation of agency (page 1-2, Name of Department, insert in
first line).
   Insert: The building and zoning department shall be charged with the
enforcement of the mechanical code, and the building commissioner shall be
known as the code official.
Subsection [A]106.4.3 Permit Expiration (page 1-5, delete subsection and
insert).
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: Permit expiration shall be governed by title 10, chapter 1 of the
village code.
Subsection [A]106.4.4 Permit Extensions (page 1-5, delete subsection and
insert).
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: Permit extensions shall be governed by title 10, chapter 1 of the
village code.
New Subsection [A]106.6 Mechanical Contractor Requirements (page 1-5, add
subsection).
   Add: All mechanical work requires a village permit subject to the
requirements of the village permit regulations and schedule of fees and bonds
ordinance and shall be performed by a licensed mechanical contractor. A
photocopy of the mechanical contractor's license and certificate of insurance
must be submitted to the building commissioner prior to permit issuance. Any
mechanical work, for which a permit is required, performed on village of
Bloomingdale property or right-of-way requires that the village of Bloomingdale
be listed as an additional insured on the certificate of insurance and that the
mechanical contractor submit an executed permittee indemnity signature page
with the permit application. Prior to the issuance of a mechanical permit, a
bond in the minimum amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), except where
work to be performed exceeds the minimum bond amount the bond shall be for the
actual cost of work to be performed, shall be executed by a surety company
authorized to transact business in the state of Illinois as surety on the bond
with the applicant as principal on the bond, and the village of Bloomingdale as
obligee, for its benefit, and at the discretion of the village of Bloomingdale,
that of consumers dealing with the applicant, conditioned that the applicant
shall faithfully perform the duties without damage to surrounding private or
public properties and in all things comply with village of Bloomingdale codes
and ordinances pertaining to the applied for permit. The bond shall remain
until the issuance of final inspection approval and/or final certificate of
occupancy.
Subsection [A]109.2 Schedule of permit fees (page 1-6, insert fourth line).
   Insert: The fee schedule shall be governed by section
10-1-2-1 (Building And Zoning Department Plan Review And Inspection Permit
Schedule Of Fees), of the village code.
Subsection [A]109.6 Refunds (page 1-7, delete entire subsection).
   Delete: Entire subsection.
Section 114 Means of Appeal (page 1-8, delete entire appeals section and
insert).
   Delete: Entire section.
   Insert: Any person shall have the right to appeal a decision of the code
official to the planning and zoning commission. Means of appeal shall follow
requirements set forth in section
11-3-7 of the village code, Appeals.
Subsection [A]115.4 Violation Penalties (page 1-8, delete entire subsection).
   Delete: Entire subsection.
Subsection 301.10 Electrical (page 3-1, third line delete "NFPA 70" and
insert).
   Delete: NFPA 70.
   Insert: Title 10, chapter 4 of the village code.
Subsection 301.11 Plumbing Connections (page 3-2, fourth line delete
"International Plumbing Code" and insert).
   Delete: International plumbing code.
   Insert: Title 10, chapter 5 of the village code.
Subsection 506.1 Commercial Kitchen Hood Ventilation System Ducts and Exhaust
Equipment (page 5-12, add to end of first sentence third line).
   Add: ...shall comply with the requirements of this section (add) except
current National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 96 standard for ventilation
control and fire protection of commercial cooking operations regulations shall
be applicable where this standard is more stringent than this code for all
installations.
Subsection 506.3.2.1 Duct joint types (page 5-12, delete "butt joints" first
line)
   Delete: "butt joints" from first line.
Subsection 507.1 Commercial Kitchen Hoods (page 5-17, add to end of first
sentence second line).
   Add: ...shall comply with the requirements of this section (add) except
current National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 96 standard for ventilation
control and fire protection of commercial cooking operations regulations shall
be applicable where this standard is more stringent than this code for all
installations.
Subsection 508.1 Commercial Kitchen Makeup Air (page 5-20, add to end of
paragraph after end of twelfth line, new sentence).
   Add: The National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 96 standard for
ventilation control and fire protection of commercial cooking operations
regulations shall be applicable where this standard is more stringent than this
code for all installations. (Ord. 2016-13, 3-14-2016; amd. Ord. 2020-04, 2-10-
2020; Ord. 2023-02, 2-13-2023)
10-6-3: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Compliance Required: It shall be unlawful to design, install,
construct, reconstruct, alter or use/maintain mechanical systems in any
building or structure in the village in violation of the terms and provisions
of this chapter.
   B.   Application to Existing Permits: This chapter shall not be construed to
extend to or affect any construction activity for which a permit was issued or
application for permit filed prior to the effective date hereof, except for
fees not yet due or payable, unless the building commissioner determines that
any provision of this chapter or the regulations incorporated herein by
reference should be applied for reasons of public health and safety. (Ord.
2016-13, 3-14-2016; amd. Ord. 2020-04, 2-10-2020; Ord. 2023-02, 2-13-2023)
10-6-4: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms and provisions of this
chapter shall be liable for a penalty in the amount of one hundred percent
(100%) of any unpaid fee and, in addition, shall be punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. (Ord. 2016-13, 3-14-2016; amd. Ord.
2020-04, 2-10-2020; Ord. 2023-02, 2-13-2023)
CHAPTER 7
FUEL GAS CODE
SECTION:
10-7-1: Village Fuel Gas Code
10-7-2: Amendments To Code
10-7-3: Compliance Required; Application Of Provisions
10-7-4: Penalties
10-7-1: VILLAGE FUEL GAS CODE:
The fuel gas code of the village (hereinafter referred to as the "fuel gas
code") shall hereafter be identical with the provisions of that publication
entitled international fuel gas code, 2021 edition, and which is incorporated
herein by reference as if fully set forth, except as amended in section
10-7-2 of this chapter. At least three (3) copies of the international fuel gas
code are on file with the village clerk and are available for public inspection
at all times during regular business hours as provided by law. (Ord. 2016-13,
3-14-2016; amd. Ord. 2020-04, 2-10-2020; Ord. 2023-02, 2-13-2023)
10-7-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
Additions, insertions, changes and deletions to sections of the international
fuel gas code are hereby revised as follows:
Subsection [A]101.1 Title (page 1-1, Name of Jurisdiction (insert in second
line).
   Insert: The village of Bloomingdale.
Subsection [A]103.1 Creation of agency (page 1-2, Name of Department insert in
first line).
   Insert: The building and zoning department shall be charged with the
enforcement of the fuel gas code, and the building commissioner shall be known
as the code official.
Subsection [A]106.5.3 Permit Expiration (page 1-5, delete subsection and
insert).
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: Permit expiration shall be governed by title 10, chapter 1 of the
village code.
Subsection [A]106.5.4 Permit Extensions (page 1-5, delete subsection and
insert).
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: Permit extensions shall be governed by title 10, chapter 1 of the
village code.
New subsection [A]106.6 Fuel Gas/Mechanical Contractor Requirements (page 1-5,
add subsection).
   Add: All fuel gas system and related mechanical work requires a village
permit subject to the requirements of the village permit, fee and bond
regulation ordinance and shall be performed by a licensed mechanical
contractor. A photocopy of the mechanical contractor's license and certificate
of insurance must be submitted to the building commissioner prior to permit
issuance. Any fuel gas system and related mechanical work, for which a permit
is required, performed on village of Bloomingdale property or right-of-way
requires that the village of Bloomingdale be listed as an additional insured on
the certificate of insurance and that the mechanical contractor submit an
executed permittee indemnity signature page with the permit application.
   Prior to the issuance of a permit, a bond in the amount of ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00), except where work to be performed exceeds the minimum
bond amount the bond shall be for the actual cost of work to be performed,
shall be executed by a surety company authorized to transact business in the
state of Illinois as surety on the bond with the applicant as principal on the
bond, and the village of Bloomingdale as obligee, for its benefit, and at the
discretion of the village of Bloomingdale, that of consumers dealing with the
applicant, conditioned that the applicant shall faithfully perform the duties
without damage to surrounding private or public properties and in all things
comply with village of Bloomingdale codes and ordinances pertaining to the
applied for permit. The bond shall remain until the issuance of final
inspection approval and/or final certificate of occupancy.
Subsection [A]109.2 Schedule of permit fees (page 1-6, insert fourth line).
   Insert: Permit fees shall be governed by section
10-1-2-1 (Building And Zoning Division Plan Review And Inspection Permit
Schedule Of Fees), of the village code.
Subsection [A]109.6 Refunds (page 1-6, delete entire subsection).
   Delete: Entire subsection.
Section 113 Means of Appeal (page 1-8, delete entire appeals section and
insert).
   Delete: Entire section.
   Insert: Any person shall have the right to appeal a decision of the code
official to the planning and zoning commission. Means of appeal shall follow
requirements set forth in section
11-3-7 of the village code, Appeals.
Section 114 Board of Appeals (page 1-8, delete entire appeals section and
insert).
   Delete: Entire subsection.
Subsection [A]115.4 Violation Penalties (page 1-8, delete entire subsection).
   Delete: Entire subsection.
Subsection [A]301.6 Plumbing Connections (page 3-1, third line delete
"International Plumbing Code" and insert).
   Delete: International plumbing code.
   Insert: Title 10, chapter 5 of the village code.
Subsection 309.2 Electrical, Connections (page 3-12, third line delete "NFPA
70" and insert).
   Delete: NFPA 70.
   Insert: Title 10, chapter 4 of the village code. (Ord. 2016-13, 3-14-2016;
amd. Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017; Ord. 2020-04, 2-10-2020; Ord. 2023-02, 2-13-
2023)
10-7-3: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Compliance Required: It shall be unlawful to design, install,
construct, reconstruct, alter or use/maintain fuel gas systems and gas fired
appliances in any building or structure or on property in the village in
violation of the terms and provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Application to Existing Permits: This chapter shall not be construed to
extend to or affect any construction activity for which a permit was issued or
application for permit filed prior to the effective date hereof, except for
fees not yet due or payable, unless the building commissioner determines that
any provision of this chapter or the regulations incorporated herein by
reference should be applied for reasons of public health and safety. (Ord.
2016-13, 3-14-2016; amd. Ord. 2020-04, 2-10-2020; Ord. 2023-02, 2-13-2023)
10-7-4: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms and provisions of this
chapter shall be liable for a penalty in the amount of one hundred percent
(100%) of any unpaid fee and, in addition, shall be punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. (Ord. 2016-13, 3-14-2016; amd. Ord.
2020-04, 2-10-2020; Ord. 2023-02, 2-13-2023)
CHAPTER 8
ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE
SECTION:
10-8-1: Village Energy Conservation Code
10-8-2: Amendments To Code
10-8-3: Compliance Required; Application Of Provisions
10-8-4: Penalties
10-8-1: VILLAGE ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE:
The energy conservation code of the village (hereinafter referred to as the
"energy conservation code") shall hereafter be identical with the provisions of
that publication entitled Illinois energy conservation code, which is
incorporated herein by reference as if fully set forth by this chapter. (Ord.
2016-13, 3-14-2016; amd. Ord. 2020-04, 2-10-2020; Ord. 2023-02, 2-13-2023)
10-8-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
Additions, insertions, changes and deletions to sections of the international
energy conservation code are as set forth in the Illinois Energy Conservation
Code 71 Ill. Adm. Code 600. (Ord. 2016-13, 3-14-2016; amd. Ord. 2020-04, 2-10-
2020; Ord. 2023-02, 2-13-2023)
10-8-3: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Compliance Required: It shall be unlawful to design, install,
construct, reconstruct, alter or use/maintain any building or structure and
related mechanical, lighting and power systems in the village in violation of
the terms and provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Application to Existing Permits: This chapter shall not be construed to
extend to or affect any construction activity for which a permit was issued or
application for permit filed prior to the effective date hereof, except for
fees not yet due or payable, unless the building commissioner determines that
any provision of this chapter or the regulations incorporated herein by
reference should be applied for reasons of public health and safety. (Ord.
2016-13, 3-14-2016; amd. Ord. 2020-04, 2-10-2020; Ord. 2023-02, 2-13-2023)
10-8-4: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms and provisions of this
chapter shall be liable for a penalty in the amount of one hundred percent
(100%) of any unpaid fee and, in addition, shall be punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. (Ord. 2016-13, 3-14-2016; amd. Ord.
2020-04, 2-10-2020; Ord. 2023-02, 2-13-2023)
CHAPTER 9
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
10-9-1: Village Property Maintenance Code
10-9-2: Amendments To Code
10-9-3: Compliance Required; Application Of Provisions
10-9-4: Nuisance Abatement Provisions
10-9-5: Penalties
10-9-1: VILLAGE PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE:
The property maintenance code of the village (hereinafter referred to as the
"property maintenance code") shall hereafter be identical with the provisions
of that publication entitled the international property maintenance code, 2021
edition, and which is incorporated herein by reference as if fully set forth,
except as amended in section
10-9-2 of this chapter. At least three (3) copies of the international property
maintenance code are on file with the village clerk and are available for
public inspection at all times during regular business hours as provided by
law. (Ord. 2016-13, 3-14-2016; amd. Ord. 2020-04, 2-10-2020; Ord. 2023-02, 2-
13-2023)
10-9-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
Additions, insertions, deletions and changes to sections of the property
maintenance code are hereby revised as follows:
Subsection [A]101.1 Title (page 1-1, Title, second line).
   Insert: The village of Bloomingdale.
Subsection [A]103.1 Creation of Code Compliance Agency (page 1-2, Creation of
agency).
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: The building and zoning department shall administer and enforce the
property maintenance provisions of this code.
Subsection [A]105.1 General (page 1-2, Duties and Powers of The Code Official,
General).
   Add: The building commissioner shall be known as the code official.
Subsection [A]105.3 (page 1-2, Right of Entry).
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: In order to safeguard the safety, health and welfare of the public,
the code official is authorized to attempt to obtain consent to enter at any
reasonable time from any owner, occupant, or other person in charge of a
dwelling, structure or property subject to this code for the purpose of making
inspections and performing duties under this code. Such owner, occupant, or
other person in charge shall be informed that entry by the code official is
sought for the purpose of making an inspection and performing duties under this
code. Failure to give consent to entry under this section shall not be
punishable by fine or imprisonment.
Subsection [A]105.3.1 Search Warrant in Absence of Consent (page 1-2, Search
Warrant In Absence Of Consent, new subsection).
   Add: If the code official, after a reasonable attempt to obtain consent,
does not receive consent to enter a dwelling, structure or property subject to
the code as described in subsection [A]105.3, the code official may seek in the
circuit court of DuPage County, a search warrant pursuant to subsection
[A]105.3.2 of this code. An owner, occupant or other person in charge of a
dwelling, structure or property subject to the provisions of this code, who is
presented with a search warrant obtained pursuant to this section, shall not
refuse, impede, inhibit, interfere with, restrict, or obstruct entry and free
access to any part of the structure or premises where an inspection authorized
by the search warrant is sought to be made.
Subsection [A]105.3.2 Procurement of Search Warrants (page 1-2, Procurement of
Search Warrants, new subsection).
   Add: A search warrant sought pursuant to subsection [A]105.3.1 shall be
sought in the circuit court of DuPage County. The court may consider any of the
following factors along with such other matters as it deems pertinent in its
decision as to whether a warrant shall be issued:
   (1)   Eyewitness account of violation.
   (2)   Citizen complaints.
   (3)   Tenant complaints.
   (4)   Plain view violations.
   (5)   Violations apparent from village records.
   (6)   Property deterioration.
   (7)   Age of property.
   (8)   Nature of alleged violation.
   (9)   Similar properties in the area.
   (10)   Documented violations on similar properties in the area.
   (11)   Passage of time since last inspection.
   (12)   Previous violations on the property.
Subsection [A]105.5 Notices and Orders - Method of Service (page 1-2, Notices
and Orders - add to subsection).
   Add: Such service shall be deemed to be properly served upon such owner if a
copy thereof is delivered to the owner personally; or by leaving the notice at
the usual place of abode, in the presence of someone in the family of the age
of 13 years or upwards, who shall be informed of the contents thereof, provided
that the person making service shall also mail a copy of the notice with
postage fully prepaid, addressed to the owner at his or her usual place of
abode; or by certified or registered mail addressed to the owner at the last
known address with return receipt requested; or if the certified or registered
letter is returned with receipt showing that it has not been delivered, by
posting a copy thereof in a conspicuous place in or about the structure
affected by such notice, or at least one publication of such notice in a local
newspaper of general circulation.
Subsection [A]113.3 Failure to Comply (page 1-7, Demolition Failure to Comply,
delete entire subsection and insert new subsection).
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: Whenever the owner of a property fails to comply with a demolition
order within the time period prescribed, the code official shall immediately
report such failure to comply to the corporate authorities. The corporate
authorities may demolish, or cause the demolition of dangerous and unsafe
buildings or uncompleted and abandoned buildings within the village by applying
to the circuit court for an order authorizing such action to be taken with
respect to any such building if the owner or owners thereof, including the lien
holders of record, after at least 15 days written notice by mail to do so, have
failed to demolish it. Where, upon diligent search, the identity or whereabouts
of the owner or owners of any such building including the lien holders of
record is not ascertainable, notice mailed to the person or persons in whose
name such real estate was last assessed is sufficient notice under this
subsection. The cost of such demolition incurred by the village of
Bloomingdale, including court costs, attorneys' fees and other costs related to
the enforcement of this subsection is recoverable from the owner or owners of
such real estate and is a lien thereon, which lien is superior to all prior
existing liens and encumbrances, except taxes. Within sixty (60) days after
such demolition, the village of Bloomingdale shall file notice of lien of such
cost and expense incurred in the office of the county recorder. The notice must
consist of a sworn statement setting out (1) a description of the real estate
sufficient for identification thereof, (2) the amount of money representing the
cost and expense incurred, and (3) the date or dates when the cost and expense
was incurred by the village or by the lien holder of record. Upon payment of
the cost and expense by the owner or persons interested in the property after
notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released by the village and
the release may be filed of record as in the case of filing a notice of lien.
Where the dangerous condition of a structure is deemed by the corporate
authorities, upon recommendation of the code official to constitute an imminent
and immediate danger to human life, the village may promptly raze or remove
said structure or a portion thereof which has been deemed to cause such a
danger in accord with applicable laws and procedures.
Section [A]113.5 Demolition or Structure Moving Permit (page 6, new section,
Demolition Permit).
   Add: A demolition or structure moving permit is required prior to any such
work occurring on property within the village of Bloomingdale. To obtain a
permit, the property owner or his authorized representative shall file an
application for permit on a form furnished by the village for that purpose, and
shall include a signed statement indicating the exact scope of demolition or
structure moving work to occur on the subject property. Prior to issuance of a
permit, the person, firm or corporation engaged in the work of demolition or
moving a structure shall provide copy of license to perform such work. A valid
certificate of insurance must be submitted specific to the property where
demolition or structure moving is to take place. A bond in the penal sum of ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00) with sureties to be approved by the building
commissioner, to indemnify, keep and save harmless the village of Bloomingdale
against any loss, cost, damage, expense, judgment, or liability of any kind
whatsoever the village may suffer, or which may accrue against, be charged or
be recovered from said village, or any of its officials from or by reason or on
account of accidents to persons or property during any such demolition or
moving operations and from or by reason or on account of anything done under or
by virtue of any permit granted for such demolition or moving operations. The
bond in each case shall extend over the period of and cover all such demolition
or moving operation. Prior to issuance of permit, the applicant shall submit
written evidence to the building commissioner that the property for which such
permit is to be issued has been inspected and treated for vectors and vermin by
a person or persons duly qualified and licensed as exterminators in vermin and
pest control. The inspection and treatment for vectors and vermin shall be made
and conducted within forty-five (45) days preceding the commencement of
demolition or moving. Prior to issuance of permit, it is required that the
village be provided a certified inspection report from an Illinois licensed
asbestos inspector certifying that the property is clear of any asbestos
hazards before commencing demolition or moving. A separate permit shall be
required for the removal of asbestos containing material, should inspection
discover the presence of asbestos containing material. Upon satisfactory report
of removal and disposal of asbestos containing material by an Illinois licensed
asbestos abatement contractor, the demolition or structure moving permit shall
be issued providing all other requirements for such permit have been met.
Provisions shall be made by the permit applicant to control erosion and dust
during the demolition or structure moving process. Safety fencing shall be
required, minimum forty-eight (48) to seventy-two (72) inches in height above
grade around the entire perimeter of the project area and shall be installed
prior to the commencement of work. Fees for all permits are subject to the
current village schedule of fees and bonds.
Section [A]107.0 (page 1-3, Means of Appeal, delete entire section and insert
new section).
   Delete: Entire section.
   Insert: Any person shall have the right to appeal a decision of the building
commissioner to the planning and zoning commission. Means of appeal shall
follow requirements set forth in section
11-3-7 of the village code, Appeals.
Section [A]108.0 (pages 1-3 and 1-4, Board of Appeals, delete entire section
and insert new section).
   Delete: Entire section.
   Insert: Any person shall have the right to appeal a decision of the building
commissioner to the planning and zoning commission. Means of appeal shall
follow requirements set forth in section
11-3-7 of the village code, Appeals.
Section 202.0 (pages 2-1 and 2-2, Definitions, additions).
   Add: Dangerous Landscaping. Any tree or shrub, or limb or portion thereof,
which creates a risk of imminent danger or hazard to person or property in that
it has broken or fallen or threatens to fall or come in contact with a
building, neighboring property or overhead utility lines. Any tree or shrub, or
limb or portion thereof, that blocks safe passage of, or obstructs in whole or
in part, streets, sidewalks, driveways, easements or bicycle paths; or in that
it falls or threatens to fall and block safe passage after having become
uprooted or unstable as a result of construction activity, disease, age, severe
weather or any other event.
   Add: Demolition and Construction Waste. Waste materials from the
construction or destruction of residential, commercial or industrial
structures, including concrete, gravel, sand, soil, lumber or any type of
excess fill or construction spoils.
   Add: Junk. Any discarded material, such as stoves, refrigerators, furniture,
automobile parts, toys, miscellaneous appliances or excessive amounts of
materials other than garbage, rubbish or refuse.
   Add: Refuse. Any solid waste material.
Subsection 302.1 (page 3-1, Sanitation, add fifth line).
   Add: Any storage of salt on the exterior of private property for use in snow
and ice control is prohibited.
Subsection 302.2.1 Drainage System Discharge (Page 3-1, add new subsection)
   Add: The drainage system sump shall discharge to grade a minimum of three
(3) feet (914 mm) from the exterior wall of the building. Sump pump discharge
shall not be connected to the sanitary sewer. Splash blocks shall be required
at all sump pump discharge lines. Splash blocks shall be constructed of
concrete or other material acceptable to the building commissioner and be
designed to carry water at least three (3) feet (914 mm) but not more than five
(5) feet from the exterior wall of the building. It shall be mandatory to carry
the water flow away from the direction of the adjacent side lot so that the
water will not empty onto such property as it flows from the sump pump
discharge. If an underground drainage system is used to carry sump discharge
water away from the building instead of using splash blocks, there shall be an
"air-gap" between the discharge pipe at the house prior to entering the sump
extension. Sump pump discharge shall be dispersed so as not to saturate the
ground or run off into adjacent properties. Sump pump discharge water shall not
accumulate on to public walkways.
Subsection 302.2.2 Roof Drainage (Page 3-1, add new subsection)
   Insert: Gutters shall be installed on all roofs with back edge not less than
one (1) inch (25.4 mm) higher than the front (outside) edge. All gutters and
downspouts shall be securely fastened to the building. Downspouts shall not be
connected to the sanitary or storm sewer. Splash blocks are required at the
bottom of downspouts and shall be construction of concrete or other material
acceptable to the building commissioner and shall be designed to carry water at
least three (3) feet (914 mm) but not more than five (5) feet (1523 mm) from
the exterior wall of the building. It shall be mandatory to carry the water
flow away from the direction of the adjacent side lot so that the water will
not empty onto such property as it flows from the downspout channel. If an
underground drainage system is used to carry downspout discharge water away
from the building instead of using splash blocks, there shall be an "air-gap"
between the downspout discharge at the house prior to entering the downspout
extension. Downspout discharge shall be dispersed so as not to saturate the
ground or run off into adjacent properties. Downspout discharge water shall not
accumulate on to public walkways.
Subsection 302.4 (page 3-1, Weeds, delete entire subsection and insert new
subsection).
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: All premises and exterior property shall be maintained free from
weeds or plant growth in excess of ten (10) inches in height. Weeds or plant
growth in excess of ten (10) inches is hereby declared to be a nuisance and
violation of this ordinance. Weeds shall be defined as all grasses, annual
plants and vegetation, any plant of volunteer growth which is not cultured or
specifically grown for human food, any high growth of grass or plants that may
conceal garbage, rubbish, refuse, junk or other unhealthy deposits or any
growth which constitutes a fire hazard when dry. Noxious weeds shall be
prohibited as required by the Illinois noxious weed law (505 ILCS 100/1). These
weeds are common ragweed, giant ragweed, Canada thistle, perennial sow thistle,
musk thistle, marijuana and perennial members of the sorghum genus. Also
prohibited are exotic weeds as required by the Illinois exotic weed act (525
ILCS 10). These weeds are Japanese honeysuckle, multiflora rose and purple
loosestrife.
   Exceptions to this subsection are as follows:
   1)   Trees.
   2)   Shrubs.
   3)   Cultivated gardens.
   4)   Natural landscaping which preserves or re-introduces native plants to
the area. Areas to be "naturally landscaped" must be approved by the village of
Bloomingdale. A site plan is required for village staff review of the proposed
or existing planting area or an existing "native" natural area with a listing
of the plant species that are in or are to be in the site. This is to insure
compliance with all aspects of this ordinance including verification that the
planting areas within the site do not encroach into public right-of-ways, onto
neighboring property or impede line-of-sight safety requirements for vehicular
traffic on private or public property.
Subsection 302.5 Rodent Harborage (page 3-1, Rodent Harborage, add to end of
subsection).
   Add: Any storage or placement of materials on property within the village in
a manner which may harbor pest infestation is hereby declared to be a nuisance
and in violation of this ordinance. Any type of infestation shall immediately
be abated.
Subsection 302.8.1 Motor Vehicles (page 3-1, Motor Vehicles, Inoperable or
Unlicensed, delete existing subsection and insert new subsection).
   Delete: Existing subsection.
   Insert: All inoperable or unlicensed motor vehicles on public or private
property, are hereby declared to be a nuisance and a violation of this
ordinance. "Inoperable motor vehicle" shall mean any motor vehicle from which
the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed, or on which the engine,
wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise so treated that
the vehicle is incapable of being driven.
Subsection 302.10 Equipment Storage (page 3-2, Equipment Storage, add new
subsection).
   Add: It is hereby declared a nuisance and a violation of this ordinance for
an owner of real estate within the village to store out in the open on the
exterior of private property construction equipment, snow removal equipment or
landscaping equipment without first obtaining written approval from the
building commissioner.
Subsection 302.11 (page 3-2, Landscaping, add new subsection).
   Add: All premises and exterior property shall be maintained and be free from
dead or dangerous landscaping. Removal of dead or dangerous landscaping from
non-residential property and residential property larger than one (1) acre in
area requires a permit for removal. The building commissioner shall review
permit application submittals prior to issuance. Where a permit for removal is
required, a replacement plan in compliance with village code and/or site-
specific development ordinance regulations shall be submitted for compliance
review.
Subsection 303.1.1 Swimming Pools (page 3-2, Swimming Pools, add subsection).
   Add: Swimming pools are to be regulated by the current village ordinance
governing the maintenance, use and equipment of private swimming pools, spas,
hot tubs and portable or temporary pools in residential zoning districts where
it is more stringent than this code. All other installations shall be regulated
by this code and other applicable codes and ordinances.
Subsection 304.14 Insect Screens (page 3-3, Insect Screens, first line, insert
in the "date" blanks).
   Insert: April 1 to December 1.
Subsection 308.1 (page 3-5, Rubbish and Garbage, addition after third line).
   Add: It is hereby declared a nuisance and a violation of this ordinance for
an owner of real estate within the village to allow garbage, rubbish, junk,
refuse or construction material or waste to remain outside in the open air upon
that property. All garbage, rubbish, junk, refuse or construction material or
waste must be enclosed in containers. No container shall be stored in the front
yard, including that area between the building and front yard, or stored in the
corner-side or side yard of any property including that area between the
building and that yard unless screened from view from the street.
Subsection 404.8 New Occupancy in Existing Non-Residential Space (page 4-3, New
Occupancy In Existing Non-Residential Space, new subsection).
   Add: No property, premises, building or tenant space within a non-
residential building shall be occupied or reoccupied without first having been
inspected by the village building and zoning department and the appropriate
fire protection district to insure compliance with public health, safety and
any other applicable village ordinance requirements. This verification of
compliance is to be initiated through building permit application for an
occupancy inspection.
Subsection [P]502.5 Public Toilet Facilities (page 5-1, Public Toilet
Facilities, deletion and insertion, third line).
   Delete: "International plumbing code" on third line.
   Insert: "current edition of the Illinois state plumbing code" on third line.
Subsection 602.3 Heat Supply (page 6-1, Heat Supply, fifth line, insert in the
"date" blanks).
   Insert: September 1 to June 1.
Subsection 602.4 Occupiable Work Spaces (page 6-1, Occupiable Work Spaces,
third line, insert in the "date" blanks).
   Insert: September 1 to June 1.
Subsection 606.1 (page 6-3, Elevators, Escalators and Dumbwaiters, add to end
of subsection).
   Add: Elevators and conveying systems shall be maintained in conformance with
state of Illinois section 140 of the elevator safety and regulations act (225
ILCS 312/140), and the administrative rules (41 Ill. adm. code 1000). Elevator
and conveying systems shall be maintained in compliance with the following or
most current standards and guidelines:
   1.   Safety code for elevators and escalators (ASME A17.1-2010/CSA B44-10)
and performance-based safety code for elevators and escalators (ASME A17.7-
2007/CSA B44.7-07).
   2.   Guide for inspection of elevators, escalators and moving walks (ASME
A17.2-2010).
   3.   Safety code for existing elevators and escalators (ASME A17.3-2005)
upgrades required by section 35(h) of the elevator safety act shall be
completed in the time frame specified therein.
   4.   Safety standard for platform lifts and stairway chairlifts (ASME A18.1-
2008).
   5.   Standard for the qualifications of elevator inspectors (ASME QEI-1-
2010).
   6.   Automated people mover standard (ASCE 21-05), part 1, 2005/2006.
   7.   Automated people mover standards (ANSI/ASCE/T&DI 21.2-08), parts 2, 3
and 4, 2008. (Ord. 2016-13, 3-14-2016; amd. Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017; Ord.
2020-04, 2-10-2020; Ord. 2023-02, 2-13-2023)
10-9-3: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Compliance Required: It shall be unlawful to design, construct, alter,
enlarge, repair, demolish, remove, use or maintain any building or structure in
the village in violation of the terms and provisions of this chapter or any
other applicable village ordinance.
   B.   Application to Existing Permits: This chapter shall not be construed to
extend to or affect any construction activity for which a permit was issued or
application for permit filed prior to the effective date hereof, except for
fees not yet due or payable, unless the building commissioner determines that
any provision of this chapter or the regulations incorporated herein by
reference should be applied for reasons of public health and safety. (Ord.
2016-13, 3-14-2016; amd. Ord. 2020-04, 2-10-2020; Ord. 2023-02, 2-13-2023)
10-9-4: NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROVISIONS:
   A.   Notice of Violation; Failure to Comply; Abatement by Village: Any owner
and/or occupant of real estate located within the village upon which a nuisance
or violation as indicated by this chapter exists shall be sent or served a
notice stating the specific violation. If the violation has not been corrected
within seven (7) days after receiving the notice, a citation will be issued by
the village for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed to have
been committed on each day which a violation continues to occur. The penalty
for each offense will be as indicated in section
10-9-5 of this chapter. A court order will then be sought to allow the village,
or a duly authorized contractor, to enter upon the property to abate the
nuisance. The village will also seek reimbursement for abatement of the
nuisance by court order.
   B.   Costs A Lien:
      1.   Any costs incurred by the village or a duly authorized contractor in
abating a nuisance, violation or any other charge imposed by the village under
this chapter shall be a lien upon the real estate in question as authorized
under the Illinois municipal code and shall be superior to all other liens and
encumbrances except tax liens; provided, that within sixty (60) days after such
cost and expense is incurred, the village, or a contractor performing such
services as authorized by the village, in his or in its own name, files notice
of lien in the office of the county recorder. The notice shall consist of a
sworn statement setting out: a) a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification thereof; b) the amount of money representing the cost and
expense incurred or payable for the service; and c) the date or dates when such
cost and expense was incurred by the village. The lien shall not be valid as to
any purchaser whose rights in and to such real estate have arisen subsequent to
the weed cutting or property maintenance actions by the village and prior to
the filing of the notice of lien. The lien shall not be valid as to any
mortgagee, judgment creditor or other lienor whose right in and to such real
estate arises prior to the filing of the notice.
      2.   Upon payment of the cost and expense by the owner or other persons
interested in such property after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall
be released by the village or person in whose name the lien has been filed, and
the release may be filed of record as in the case of filing notice of lien.
(Ord. 2016-13, 3-14-2016; amd. Ord. 2020-04, 2-10-2020; Ord. 2023-02, 2-13-
2023)
10-9-5: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms and provisions of this
chapter shall be liable for a penalty in the amount of one hundred percent
(100%) of any unpaid fee and, in addition, shall be punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each day of violation. (Ord. 2016-13, 3-14-2016; amd.
Ord. 2020-04, 2-10-2020; Ord. 2023-02, 2-13-2023)
CHAPTER 10
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
SECTION:
10-10-1: Village Fire Prevention Code
10-10-2: Amendments To Code
10-10-3: Compliance Required; Application Of Provisions
10-10-4: Penalties
10-10-1: VILLAGE FIRE PREVENTION CODE:
The fire prevention code of the village (hereinafter referred to as the "fire
prevention code") shall hereafter be identical with the provisions of that
publication entitled "international fire prevention code, 2021 edition" and
which is incorporated herein by reference as if fully set forth, except as
amended in section
10-10-2 of this chapter. Three (3) copies of the international fire code are on
file in the office of the village clerk and are available for public inspection
at all times during regular business hours as provided by law. (Ord. 2016-13,
3-14-2016; amd. Ord. 2020-04, 2-10-2020; Ord. 2023-02, 2-13-2023)
10-10-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
Additions, insertions and changes to sections of the fire prevention code are
hereby revised as follows:
Subsection [A]101.1 Title (page 1-1, name of jurisdiction, insert in second
line)
   Insert: village of Bloomingdale.
Subsection [A]101.2 Scope (page 1-1, addition to scope, number (6.) and (7.) to
be added)
   Add:
   (6.)   All references in this code to the international building code or the
international existing building code shall be meant to conform to the current
provisions of the village building code.
   (7.)   All references to the international residential code, the
construction of one- and two-family dwellings and multiple single-family
dwellings (townhouses) no more than three (3) stories in height with a separate
means of egress are to conform to the current provisions of the village
residential building code.
Subsection [A]101.6 Zoning (page 1-1, add new subsection)
   Add: Zoning - The restrictions of the title 11 Zoning Regulations of the
village code, as amended from time to time, shall not be deemed to be modified
by any provision of this code; and such restrictions shall be controlling
except insofar as this code imposes greater restrictions in which case the life
safety provisions of this code shall control.
Subsection [A]101.7 Legislative (page 1-1, add new subsection)
   Add: Legislative - If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of
this chapter is, or shall be for any reason held to be invalid, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this chapter. The
village board hereby declares that it would have approved this chapter, and
each section, subsection, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact
that any one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses and phrases be
declared invalid.
Subsection [A]102.3 Change of Use or Occupancy (page 1-2, add to end of
subsection)
   Add: No building upon which a certificate of occupancy shall have been
issued shall be used for a different classification or group occupancy until a
certificate of occupancy for such different use shall have been issued by the
building commissioner; provided, however, that no certificate of occupancy
shall be issued in any event unless the occupancy or use of the building
complies with the zoning law. "Change of occupancy" is not intended to mean
change of tenant or proprietor, provided the new tenant is to occupy the
building for a purpose, which would not involve its reclassification into a
different occupancy or use group.
Section 103 Code Compliance Agency (page 1-2, insert in first line)
   Insert: The building commissioner shall be charged with the enforcement of
the fire prevention code as amended herein, and the building commissioner shall
be known as the fire code official where referenced in this code.
Subsection [A]105.1 Permits - General (page 1-4, permits section - add to
second line)
   Add: Permits shall be governed by title 10, chapter 1 of the village code.
Subsection [A]105.3.1 Permits - Expiration (page 1-5, delete subsection and
insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: Permit expiration shall be governed by title 10, chapter 1 of the
village code.
Subsection [A]106.2.1 Information on Construction Documents (page 1-12, add to
end of subsection)
   Add: Unless otherwise specified by the building commissioner, each
application shall be accompanied by a minimum of six (6) sets of drawings and
specifications signed and sealed by an architect licensed to practice
architecture as provided by the Illinois architectural act, or by a structural
engineer licensed to practice structural engineering as provided by the
Illinois architectural act, or by the owner of said proposed building when it
is determined to be sufficient by the building commissioner. To obtain a
permit, the owner or his representative shall file an application on a form
furnished by the village for that purpose, and shall include a signed statement
indicating the proposed occupancy or use of all parts of the building and the
estimated construction cost thereof.
Subsection [A]108.2 Inspections (page 1-13, add to end of subsection)
   Add: It shall be unlawful to occupy, utilize, conduct operations, or conduct
business on premises prior to obtaining occupancy or compliance inspection
approval from the village of Bloomingdale. No building, premises or part
thereof, hereafter erected, or a structure of which shall hereafter be altered
or repaired and for which a permit shall be required as provided in this code,
and no existing building in which the character of the occupancy is to be
changed, shall be occupied or used in whole or in part until a certificate of
occupancy and compliance shall have been issued by the building commissioner.
Such certificate shall carry the certification of the building commissioner
that said building, premises or part thereof conforms to the requirements of
this and any other applicable village code or ordinance, and that said
building, construction, alteration, repair, use or proposed operation is in
compliance with the plans and specifications upon which the permit required by
this code was issued.
Section 111 Board of Appeals (page 1-14, Board of Appeals, delete section and
insert)
   Delete: Entire section.
   Insert: That any person, firm or corporation shall have the right to appeal
a decision of the building commissioner (fire code official) to the planning
and zoning commission. Means of appeal shall follow requirements set forth in
title 11, chapter 3, section 7 (Appeals) of the village code.
Subsection [A]112.3 Notice of Violation (page 1-14, add to end of subsection)
   Add: Upon the failure of the owners of said building or other structure, or
the party or parties interested therein, within five (5) days after the service
of the notice of failure to comply with an order of the president and board of
trustees to begin the work of making safe or sanitary or of removing and
demolishing said building or other structure, or upon the failure of the owner
or owners or the party or parties interested therein after beginning such work
to proceed continuously without unnecessary delay to completion thereof, the
village may take any action at law or in equity to restrain the use of such
structure, or may proceed against the owner or any person in possession of the
same in a penal action before the 18th circuit court in DuPage County for the
violation of the provisions of this code. The village may also, in its
discretion, cause the structure to be secured to prevent access, cleaned of
unsanitary conditions detrimental to the public or removed in its entirety,
after the failure, within the time hereinabove provided for, to restore the
same to a safe condition.
Subsection [A]112.3.1 Service (page 1-14, add to subsection)
   Add: Whenever the building commissioner shall condemn and declare any
building or other structure to be a nuisance because of dangerous or unsanitary
condition thereof, he shall cause a notice in writing to be served upon the
owner or owners, upon the tenant and occupant thereof, if any, and upon the
holder or holders of any encumbrances or general tax lien thereof, if any,
ordering and directing said building or other structure to be put in a safe or
sanitary condition or be demolished and removed. Service of said notice may be
effected by personal delivery thereof, or by mailing a copy thereof by
registered mail directed to the person involved, at his last address known to
the building commissioner or available to him upon examination of the records
of the county treasurer and county clerk of DuPage County, Illinois, as the
case might be and by posting a copy thereof upon the premises subject to such
condemnation.
Subsection [A]112.4.1 Abatement of violation (page 1-14, add to subsection)
   Add: If any building or other structure has become dangerous to life, limb
or property or to the public because of structural defects, deterioration, or
fire damage, or has become so unsanitary or out of repair as to render the same
unsafe and unfit for occupancy or human habitation, it shall be deemed a
nuisance, and the building commissioner, if and when he shall find any such
conditions exist, shall declare such building or other structure a nuisance and
shall condemn the same, and no person, firm or corporation shall occupy, rent,
lease or use such building or other structure with or without compensation. The
violations of the provisions of this section shall constitute a petty offense,
and any person, firm or corporation found guilty of a violation thereof shall
be subject to a fine in the manner and amount as provided by village code.
Subsection [A] 113.4 Failure to comply (page 1-15, delete and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: Failure to comply fine amounts provided in section
1-4-1 of the village code for each day in violation.
Subsection 307.1.1 Prohibited open burning (page 3-3, add to subsection)
   Add: Open burning shall be prohibited for the disposal of building
materials, refuse, garbage, trash or landscape waste material such as leaves,
grass or shrubbery.
Subsection 307.4.2 Recreational fires (page 3-3, add to subsection)
   Add: Recreational fires shall be prohibited for the disposal of building
materials, refuse, garbage, trash or landscape waste material such as leaves,
grass or shrubbery. Recreational fires in outdoor fire places shall be located
on a noncombustible surface or in areas where vegetation has been cleared away
to prevent the spread of fire. Fire pits shall not exceed four (4) feet in
diameter or sixteen (16) square feet in area.
Subsection 310.9 Prohibited smoking in assembly areas (page 3-6, new
subsection)
   Add: Smoking or carrying a lit cigar, cigarette or pipe shall be prohibited
in all areas used as for public assembly with seating accommodations or
standing room only, or in areas in which theatrical shows, lectures, amusements
or other forms of entertainment are offered, presented, operated or exhibited.
Subsection 311.2 Safeguarding vacant premises (page 3-6, add to subsection)
   Add: The building owner shall provide current building key holder contact
information to the building commissioner and the fire protection district
having jurisdiction.
Subsection 503.4 Obstruction of fire apparatus access roads (page 5-2, add to
subsection)
   Add: Vehicles shall not obstruct access to fire department fire sprinkler
connections, fire lanes or fire access driveways or roads.
Subsection 506.1 Key Boxes - Required access (page 5-3, add to subsection)
   Add: Key boxes shall be provided on all high-rise stairwell exit discharges
and on all Use Group I exit doors as required by the building commissioner and
fire protection district have jurisdiction.
Subsection 506.3 Security Locking Systems (page 5-3, new subsection)
   Add: All buildings except those in use groups R-3 and R-4 shall have
installed an approved key safe system.
Subsection 506.4 Type and Location (page 5-3, new subsection)
   Add: The fire protection district having jurisdiction shall review and
approve the type of key safe for use within its fire protection district. The
key safe shall be mounted on the exterior of the building in a location
approved by the fire protection district having jurisdiction.
Subsection 506.5 Electric Security Gates (page 5-3, new subsection)
   Add: At properties equipped with electric security gates, the gates shall be
provided with a key switch that activates the operation of the gate. The key
switch shall be of the type approved for this use by the fire protection
district. The location of the key switch shall be approved by the fire
protection district having jurisdiction.
Subsection 506.6 Security Gates (page 5-3, new subsection)
   Add: At properties equipped with security gates, provisions shall be made
for securing of the gate in locked position using a double padlock system. A
padlock approved for this use by the fire protection district shall be provided
in addition to the occupant's padlock.
Subsection 507.5.1 Fire hydrant systems Where required (Page 5-4, delete and
amend to read as follows)
   Delete: Entire subsection
   Add: Water supplies for automatic sprinkler systems shall comply with this
section and the standards referenced in Section 903. The potable water supply
shall be protected against backflow in accordance with the requirements of this
section and the International Plumbing Code. Hydrant water flow data used for
the design of any sprinkler system shall be less than 1 year old.
   Fire Hydrants. Fire hydrant locations shall comply with the following
conditions.
   1.   One fire hydrant shall be located within 100 feet of all fire
department sprinkler and standpipe connection(s).
   2.   At least two (2) fire hydrants shall be located within three hundred
(300) feet of all buildings
   3.   Fire hydrants shall be located along public streets so that no portion
of the perimeter building will be over 300 feet from a fire hydrant. Where this
is not possible, additional hydrants shall be located on the premises
accessible to motorized fire apparatus.
   4.   Fire hydrants shall be located that:
      a.   Access to fire hydrants shall be by all-weather roadways adequate in
width, clearance and strength for fire-fighting purposes. Such routes shall be
maintained accessible during all seasons of the year. Legal provisions shall be
required for private roads. Pumper outlets shall face such roadways.
      b.   Hydrants should be located within ten (10) feet from all-weather
roadways. At no time shall the closest part of the hydrant be setback less than
three (3) feet from the curb line.
      c.   Hydrants shall be located a minimum fifty (40) feet from the
building to be protected or at an approved location by the protection district
having jurisdiction.
   5.   Fire hydrants used in conjunction with water supplies shall be approved
by the protection district having jurisdiction and shall be installed at the
same time the water main is installed. All hydrants shall have a minimum six
(6) inch inlet, a four and one-half inch (4 ½") discharge port and two, two and
one-half inch (2-1/2") discharge ports which are equipped with National
Standard Hose coupling threads. The hydrant shall open "left handed". Discharge
ports shall face the adjacent roadway and shall be installed at sixteen (16) to
twenty-four (24) inches above adjacent grade as measure to the bottom of the
steamer port.
   6.   Fire hydrants shall be protected from accidental damage by approved
methods when located in areas subject to vehicle damage. All protective devices
shall be located so as not to obstruct the normal operations of the fire
hydrant.
   7.   Plans showing fire hydrant placement and water main size and location
shall be submitted to the protection district having jurisdiction for approval
prior to installation.
Subsection 510.1 Emergency Responder Communication Coverage, (page 5-6 insert
at bottom of first paragraph)
   Insert: Radio Communications: When conditions exist with radio equipment
which interferes with the efficiency and use of fire protection equipment and
or response of the fire protection district, a bi-directional radio
amplification system shall be required to be installed within or on the
building to ensure a 95 percent reliability factor for radio use within the
structure(s). This system shall be designed to operate in conjunction with the
equipment utilized by the fire protection district having jurisdiction. When
any required fire communication enhancement system is installed and becomes
inoperative, thus affecting the fire safety of the building, structure or the
occupants therein, the fire code official shall order the system, unit, or
device to be repaired and returned to full service, or the building(s) vacated
until the system is repaired and returned to full operating service. It will be
the responsibility of the owner or occupant to make test, repairs, alternations
or additions to ensure the system is properly maintained. The radio
communication system shall be designed to operate on battery back-up power
supply for a minimum of 60 hours. The radio communication system shall operate
on radio frequency(s) as specified by the fire code official.
Subsection 903.2.1.1 Group A-1 (page 9-5, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all group
A-1 occupancies in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection 903.2.1.2 Group A-2 (page 9-5, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all group
A-2 occupancies in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection 903.2.1.3 Group A-3 (page 9-5, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all group
A-3 occupancies in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection 903.2.1.4 Group A-4 (page 9-5, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all group
A-4 occupancies in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection 903.2.1.5 Group A-5 (page 9-5, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all group
A-5 occupancies in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection 903.2.2 Ambulatory Care Facilities (page 9-5, delete subsection and
insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all
ambulatory care facilities in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection 903.2.3 Group E (page 9-6, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all group E
occupancies in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection 903.2.4 Group F-1 (page 9-6, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all group
F-1 occupancies in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection 903.2.6 Group I (page 9-6, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all group I
occupancies in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection 903.2.7 Group M (page 9-6, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all group M
occupancies in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection 903.2.9 Group S-1 (page 9-7, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all group
S-1 occupancies in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection 903.2.9.1 Repair Garages (page 9-7, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided throughout all
buildings used as repair garages in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA
13.
Subsection 903.2.9.2 Bulk Storage of Tires (page 9-7, delete subsection and
insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: Buildings and structures utilized for the storage of tires shall be
equipped throughout with an automatic fire sprinkler system in accordance with
section 903.3.1.1 in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection 903.2.10 Group S-2 Enclosed Parking Garages (page 9-7, delete entire
subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided throughout all
buildings used as enclosed parking garages in compliance with the latest
edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection 903.2.10.1 Commercial Parking Garages (page 9-7, add to subsection
and delete fourth line)
   Add: Automatic sprinkler systems shall be installed in compliance with the
latest edition of NFPA 13.
   Delete: Entire fourth line ... "where the fire area exceeds 5,000 square
feet (464 square meters)."
Subsection 903.2.11 Specific Building Areas and Hazards (page 9-7, delete
subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: In all occupancies an automatic fire sprinkler system shall be
installed for specific building design or hazards in all locations in
compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection 903.2.13 Group B (page 9-7, add new subsection)
   Add: An automatic fire sprinkler system shall be provided for all group B
occupancies in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection 903.3.1 Automatic Sprinkler Systems - Installation requirements -
Standards (page 9-8, add to subsection)
   Add: Performance based computer code analysis not allowed for system design.
Automatic sprinkler systems shall be installed in compliance with the latest
edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection 903.3.1.1 NFPA 13 sprinkler systems (page 9-8 add to subsection)
   Add: Thin wall piping is not allowed. Only schedule 10 or 40 black iron or
galvanized piping shall be installed.
Subsection 903.3.1.2.1 Balconies and decks (page 9-8, delete conditions 1. and
2., add to subsection)
   Delete: conditions 1. and 2.
   Add: Sprinkler protection shall be provided for all balconies and decks in
compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection 903.3.8 Limited area sprinkler systems (page 9-8, add to subsection)
   Add: Limited area sprinkler systems shall only be allowed when approved by
the fire code official. Automatic sprinkler systems shall be installed in
compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection 903.4 Sprinkler System Supervision and Alarms (page 9-12, delete
exceptions 2 and 3)
   Delete: Entire exception nos. 2 and 3.
Subsection 903.4.1 Monitoring (page 9-12, delete first paragraph of subsection
and insert new paragraph)
   Delete: First paragraph of subsection, exceptions to remain.
   Insert: Alarm, supervisory and trouble signals shall be distinctly different
and automatically transmitted to central stations or remote supervisory
stations by a one way private radio alarm system complying with chapter 26 of
the 2010 edition of NFPA 72 which manually or automatically retransmit trouble,
supervisory and full fire alarm signals to DuPage Public Safety Communications
(Du-Comm).
Subsection 903.4.2 Alarms (page 9-12, add to the end of the paragraph)
   Add: Provide an outside UL listed weather tight visual device over the fire
department sprinkler bell and connection. This device shall be equipped with a
blue lens. The strobe shall activate and stop with water flow.
Subsection 903.4.2.1 Alarm Indicating Appliances (page 9-12, add section to
read as follows)
   Add: Audio visual devices shall be provided so that they are heard in all
areas of every building. All sprinkled buildings shall be provided with audio
visual devices. Existing buildings shall be required to bring any deficient
areas up to code upon any building additions or alterations excluding cosmetic
only alterations subject to fire code official approval.
Subsection 903.4.2.2 Alarms Indicating Appliances (page 9-12, add section to
read as follows)
   Add: Fire sprinkler system inspector's test valves shall be located most
remote from the riser and shall be accessible at all times and located no more
than 6 feet above the finished floor and remotely located. On multiple riser
systems the test valves shall be marked as to which riser and area it tests.
Subsection 903.4.2.3 Valve Monitoring (page 9-12, added to read as follows)
   Add: Installation in multiple story buildings; floor control valves with
water flow switches shall be provided for each floor.
Subsection 903.4.4 Automatic Sprinklers (page 9-12, added to read as follows)
   Add: Where automatic sprinklers provide protection to an area with an
approved flow switch interconnected to the fire alarm system protected by the
zoned sprinkler system, the fire district having jurisdiction may require
additional smoke detectors for a more rapid means to identify the location of
smoke or fire.
Subsection 903.7 Speculative Buildings (page 9-12, Automatic Sprinkler Systems,
insert new subsection)
   Insert: 903.7 Speculative Buildings. Automatic sprinklers in speculative
buildings shall be hydraulically designed for the storage of class IV
commodities, as defined by NFPA 231, to the maximum available storage height in
the building. The maximum available storage height in a building is the clear
height dimension between the finished floor and the median point between the
bottom of the high and low points of the structural members supporting the roof
assembly. Automatic sprinkler systems shall be installed in compliance with the
latest edition of NFPA 13.
Subsection 903.8 Hydraulic Calculations (page 9-12, add new subsection)
   Add: A minimum of 10% or 5 psi (whichever is greater) minimum safety factor
shall be provided in the fire protection system hydraulic calculations. The
system demand shall be 5 psi minimum below the seasonal low water flow test
supply.
   Each hydraulically calculated area, on each drawing, shall be provided with
a copy of the hydraulic nameplate.
Subsection 903.9 Fire Pump Test Ports (Page 9-12, add new subsection)
   Add: An OS&Y control valve shall be located on all fire pump test headers.
All fire pumps installations shall provide an outside test header.
Subsection 903.10 Fire Pump & Sprinkler Control Rooms (page 9-12, add new
subsection)
   Add: Provide an outside access door to the sprinkler riser valve room and
fire pump room. This room shall also be equipped with an interior access door
that swings in the direction of egress. Egress door(s) shall be equipped with
panic hardware.
Subsection 903.11 Fire Pump Room Rating (page 9-12, add section to read as
follows)
   Add: All fire pump rooms shall be a minimum 2-hour U.L. rated enclosure. All
fire pump rooms shall be provided with an approved doorway from the outside and
a door from the room to the interior of the structure.
Subsection 903.11.1 Fire Sprinkler Room Identification (Page 9-12, add new
subsection)
   Add: Fire sprinkler rooms located in new or existing multi-tenant buildings
shall be labeled in minimum six (6) inch (153mm) numbers stating "Fire
Sprinkler Control Room" and shall state the address range the system protects.
Subsection 904.3.5 Monitoring (page 9-12, add to end of subsection)
   Add: Kitchen hood suppression systems shall be monitored by the building
fire alarm system and indicated as a separate zone.
Subsection 906.1 Portable Fire Extinguishers - Where required (pages 9-18 and
9-19, delete exceptions)
   Delete: All exceptions.
Subsection 907.1.3 Equipment (Page 9-21, add to end of subsection)
   Add: All fire alarm systems shall be of the addressable type and shall be
installed per NFPA 72 unless otherwise approved by the fire code official
having jurisdiction. Fire alarm and detection systems shall be installed in
compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 72.
Subsection 907.1.3.1 Equipment - Fire Alarm Panel Requirements (Page 9-21,
insert new subsection)
   Insert: All fire alarm panels shall provide a minimum of 60 hours of battery
backup service in the case of A/C power failure. All fire alarm one-way radio
systems shall be equipped with 60 hours of battery backup. Code access type
fire alarm panels are not permitted.
Subsection 907.1.3.2 Equipment - Inoperable (page 9-21, insert new subsection)
   Insert: Any time a fire alarm panel or connected equipment thereof becomes
inoperable due to age or other reasons and is required to be replaced, the fire
code official having jurisdiction may require the fire alarm system for the
entire building to be brought up to current code requirements. Fire alarm and
detection systems shall be installed in compliance with the latest edition of
NFPA 72.
Subsection 907.2 Where required - new buildings and structures (Page 9-21, add
to end of second paragraph)
   Add: All fire alarm control panels shall be installed near the fire
department sprinkler risers with a fully functioning remote annunciator panel
located within 10 feet of the main entrance at a location approved by the fire
code official having jurisdiction. The remote annunciator panel shall be
capable of alarm silence and reset. Code access type fire alarm panels are not
permitted.
   Exception: Manual fire alarm boxes are not required in Use Group M where the
building is equipped throughout with an automatic sprinkler system and the
alarm notification appliances will activate upon sprinkler water flow.
   Alarm, supervisory and trouble signals shall be distinctly different and
automatically transmitted to Central Stations or Remote Supervisory Stations by
a one-way private radio alarm system complying with Chapter 26 of the 2010
Edition of NFPA 72, which manually or automatically retransmit trouble,
supervisory, and full fire alarm signals to DuPage Public Safety Communications
(Du-Comm). Fire alarm and detection systems shall be installed in compliance
with the latest edition of NFPA 72.
   Exceptions:
   1.   Underground gate valves with roadway boxes.
Subsection 907.2.1 Group A (page 9-21, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: A fire alarm system in group A occupancies shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 as regulated by the fire protection
district having jurisdiction. Fire alarm and detection systems shall be
installed in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 72.
Subsection 907.2.2 Group B (page 9-22, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: A fire alarm system in group B occupancies shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 as regulated by the fire protection
district having jurisdiction. Fire alarm and detection systems shall be
installed in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 72.
Subsection 907.2.3 Group E (page 9-22, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: A fire alarm system in group E occupancies shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 as regulated by the fire protection
district having jurisdiction. Fire alarm and detection systems shall be
installed in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 72.
Subsection 907.2.4 Group F (page 9-22, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: A fire alarm system in group F occupancies shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 as regulated by the fire protection
district having jurisdiction. Fire alarm and detection systems shall be
installed in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 72.
Subsection 907.2.5 Group H (page 9-22, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: A fire alarm system in group H occupancies shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 as regulated by the fire protection
district having jurisdiction. Fire alarm and detection systems shall be
installed in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 72.
Subsection 907.2.6 Group I (page 9-23, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: A fire alarm system in group I occupancies shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 as regulated by the fire protection
district having jurisdiction. Fire alarm and detection systems shall be
installed in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 72.
Subsection 907.2.7 Group M (page 9-24, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: A fire alarm system in group M occupancies shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 as regulated by the fire protection
district having jurisdiction. Fire alarm and detection systems shall be
installed in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 72.
Subsection 907.2.8 Group R-1 (page 9-24, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: A fire alarm system in group R-1 occupancies shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 as regulated by the fire protection
district having jurisdiction. Fire alarm and detection systems shall be
installed in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 72.
Subsection 907.2.9 Group R-2 (pages 9-24 and 9-25, delete subsection and
insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: A fire alarm system in group R-2 occupancies shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 as regulated by the fire protection
district having jurisdiction. Fire alarm and detection systems shall be
installed in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 72.
Subsection 907.2.10 Group S (page 9-25, delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: A fire alarm system in group R-2 occupancies shall be installed and
maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 as regulated by the fire protection
district having jurisdiction. Fire alarm and detection systems shall be
installed in compliance with the latest edition of NFPA 72.
Subsection 907.2.11 Group R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 and I-1 (pages 9-25 and 9-26,
delete subsection and insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: A fire alarm and detection system in group R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 and I-
1 occupancies shall be installed and maintained in accordance with NFPA 72 as
regulated by the fire protection district having jurisdiction. Fire alarm and
detection systems shall be installed in compliance with the latest edition of
NFPA 72.
Subsection 907.2.13.4 Emergency voice/alarm communication system (page 9-27,
insert new subsection)
   Add: An emergency voice/alarm communication system shall be required in all
buildings five stories or more than 55 feet in height and shall be audible
throughout the entire building in accordance section 907.5.2.2.
Subsection 907.6.4.1.1 Multi-Zone, (page 9-32, insert new subsection)
   Insert: Multi-tenant buildings will be "ring by tenant" and shall include
weather tight clear outside strobe lights over the entrance to each tenant
space as directed by the Fire Code Official. All outside strobes shall provide
a minimum of 75 candelas.
Subsection 907.6.3 Zones - Disconnects (page 9-32, insert new subsection)
   Insert: Subsection 907.6.4.3 Zone Disconnects. All fire alarm systems shall
be capable of zoned disconnects at the control panel. Disconnection of a zone
shall cause the fire alarm system to transmit a trouble signal.
Subsection 907.6.6 Monitoring (page 9-32, delete part of subsection and insert)
   Delete: First paragraph of subsection, exceptions to remain.
   Insert: All required fire alarm systems other than fire suppression systems
shall be connected to an approved remote station system in accordance with NFPA
72.
Subsection 907.11 Fire Alarm and Sprinkler Rooms (page 9-33, insert new
subsection)
   Insert: Multi-tenant fire alarm and sprinkler system room doors shall be
labeled in minimum six (6) inch (153mm) numbers stating "Fire Sprinkler / Fire
Control Room" and shall state the address range the system protects.
Subsection 907.12 Private Wireless Radio Alarm Systems (page 9-33, insert new
subsection)
   Insert: Alarm, supervisory and trouble signals shall be distinctly different
and automatically transmitted to Central Stations or Remote Supervisory
Stations by a one- way private radio alarm system complying with Chapter 26 of
the 2010 Edition of NFPA 72, which manually or automatically retransmit
trouble, supervisory, and full fire alarm signals to DuPage Public Safety
Communications (Du-Comm).
Subsection 910.2 Smoke and Heat Removal - Where required (page 9-42, add to end
of subsection paragraph, delete exceptions)
   Add: Buildings or portions thereof shall be provided with a mechanical smoke
exhaust system in all occupancies of groups A, B, E, F, H, I, M and S having
more than 30,000 square feet (2787 square meters) in floor area. All key
switches shall be "Knox Box" style keyed to the fire protection district having
jurisdiction.
   Delete: All exceptions.
Subsection 910.2.1 Groups F-1 or S-1 (page 9-42, delete entire subsection and
insert)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: Groups F or S. Buildings and portions thereof used as a group F or S
occupancy having less than 30,000 square feet (2787 square meters) in floor
area.
Subsection [BE]1006.2.1 Egress based on occupant load and Common Path of Egress
Travel Distance (page 10-6, add to subsection)
   Add: 3. The length of common path of egress travel in occupancies in group
B, F and S shall not be more than 100 feet (30,480 mm) for common truck docks
which are provided and separated from other occupancies by 1-hour fire-
resistance rated assemblies, and that are entirely protected throughout with an
approved automatic sprinkler system in accordance with section 903.3.1.1.
   Add: 4. Where shared truck dock facilities are provided in Group B, S and F
occupancies in multiple tenant buildings, two exits or exit access doorways
from the space shall be provided.
Subsection [BE] 1009.1 Accessible Means of Egress Required (page 10-11, add to
end of subsection)
   Add: Accessible means of egress shall comply with the current version of the
Illinois accessibility code.
Subsection [BE] 1010.1.2.1 Direction of Swing (page 10-14, change occupant load
in line 4)
   Change: "occupant load of 50 or more" to "occupant load of more than 10 for
exterior doors only. All exterior doors, doors accessing an exit enclosure, and
all doors serving group H occupancy shall swing in the direction of egress
travel and be provided with an approved automatic door closer."
Subsection [BE] 1010.2.4 Locks and Latches (page 10-16, delete numbers 3, 3.1
and 3.2)
   Delete: Numbers 3, 3.1 and 3.2.
Subsection [BE] 1015.4 Guards - Opening Limitations (page 10-31, add to end of
subsection)
   Add: Required guards shall not be constructed with horizontal rails or other
ornamental pattern that results in a ladder effect.
Subsection [BE] 1006.2.1 Egress based on occupant load and common path of
egress travel distance (page 10-6, add to end of subsection)
   Add: The length of common path of egress travel in occupancies in group B, F
and S shall not be more than 100 feet (30 480 mm) for common truck docks which
are provided and separated from other occupancies by 1-hour fire-resistance
rated assemblies, and that are entirely protected throughout with an approved
automatic sprinkler system in accordance with section 903.3.1.1. Where shared
truck dock facilities are provided in group B, F and S in multiple tenant
buildings, two exits or exit access doorways from the space shall be provided.
Table [BE] 1020.2 Corridor Fire-Resistance Rating (page 10-35, change hour
ratings in table)
   Change: All occupancies without sprinkler systems are "not permitted" in the
third column in coordination with section 903.2, which as amended by this
ordinance requires all buildings to be equipped throughout with an automatic
sprinkler system in accordance with section 903.1.1 or 903.3.1.2 where allowed.
   Change: All occupancies with sprinkler systems are to have 1-hour corridor
fire-resistance rating in the fourth column, with no reductions in fire-
resistance allowed. Exit corridors serving fire-resistance rated stairwells
shall have the same fire-resistance rating as the stairwell.
Subsection [BE] 1023.12 Smoke-Proof Enclosures (page 10-38, add "and
pressurized" after "smoke proof" in line 4)
   Add: "and pressurized" after "smoke proof" in line 4.
Subsection 1101.2 Intent (page 11-1, add to subsection)
   Add: Compliance with the current edition of the Illinois accessibility code
is required.
Subsection 1104.2 Elevators, Escalators and Moving Walks (page 11-8, add to end
of paragraph)
   Add: Elevator and conveying systems shall be in conformance with state of
Illinois section 140 of the elevator safety and regulation act (225 ILCS 312/
140), and the administrative rules (41 Ill. adm. code 1000). Elevator and
conveying systems shall comply with following or most current standards and
guidelines:
   1.   Safety code for elevators and escalators (ASME A17.1-2010/CSA B44-10)
and performance-based safety code for elevators and escalators (ASME A17.7-
2007/CSA B44.7-07).
   2.   Guide for inspection of elevators, escalators, and moving walks (ASME
A17.2-2010).
   3.   Safety code for existing elevators and escalators (ASME A17.3-2005)
upgrades required by section 35(h) of the elevator safety act shall be
completed in the time frame specified therein.
   4.   Safety standard for platform lifts and stairway chairlifts (ASME A18.1-
2008).
   5.   Standard for the qualification of elevator inspectors (ASME QEI-1-
2010).
   6.   Automated people mover standard (ASCE 21-05), part 1, 2005/2006.
   7.   Automated people mover standards (ANSI/ASCE/T&DI 21.2-08), parts 2, 3
and 4, 2008.
Subsection 5003.4.1 Safety Data Sheets (page 50-13, Material Safety Data
Sheets, new subsection)
   Add: Where required the owner shall submit to the village building
commissioner a material safety data sheet for each hazardous material or
substance on the premises. The material safety data sheet shall include the
following information:
      a.   Manufacturer's name, address and emergency telephone number.
      b.   Chemical name and synonyms; trade names and hazardous ingredients.
      c.   Physical data; reactivity data.
      d.   Fire and explosion data.
      e.   Health hazard data.
      f.   Special protection information and special precautions.
      g.   Spill or leak cleanup procedures.
Subsection 5003.4.2 Safety Data Sheets (page 50-13, Material Safety Data
Sheets, new subsection)
   Add: Occupancies identified by the fire protection district shall install
one or more hazardous materials information safes approved by the fire
protection district. This safe shall contain all information as required in
section 5003.4.1. The safe shall be mounted in a location approved by the fire
prevention district.
Subsection 5003.5 (page 50-13, Hazard Identification Signs, Location, first
sentence)
   Delete: "in quantities requiring a permit and".
Subsection 5003.5.1 (page 50-13, Hazard Identification Signs, Markings,
addition)
   Add: Rooms, cabinets and outside storage areas shall be labeled in
accordance with NFPA 704 listed in chapter 80.
Appendix C Fire Hydrant Locations and Distribution (pages APPENDIX C-1 and C-2,
add sections as mandatory regulations)
   Add: Sections C101, C102, C103, C104 and C105 as mandatory regulations.
Appendix D Fire Apparatus Access Roads (pages APPENDIX D-1, D-2, and D-3, add
sections as mandatory regulations)
   Add: Sections D101, D102, D103, D104, D105, D106, D107 and D108 as mandatory
regulations. (Ord. 2016-13, 3-14-2016; amd. Ord. 2020-04, 2-10-2020; Ord. 2023-
02, 2-13-2023)
10-10-3: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Compliance Required: It shall be unlawful to design, construct, alter,
repair, demolish, remove, use or maintain any building or structure in the
village in violation of the terms and provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Application to Existing Permits: This chapter shall not be construed to
extend to or affect any construction activity for which a permit was issued or
application for permit filed prior to the effective date hereof, except for
fees not yet due or payable, unless the building commissioner determines that
any provision of this chapter or the regulations incorporated herein by
reference should be applied for reasons of public health and safety. (Ord.
2016-13, 3-14-2016; amd. Ord. 2020-04, 2-10-2020; Ord. 2023-02, 2-13-2023)
10-10-4: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms and provisions of this
chapter shall be liable for a penalty in the amount of one hundred percent
(100%) of any unpaid fee and, in addition, shall be punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. (Ord. 2016-13, 3-14-2016; amd. Ord.
2020-04, 2-10-2020; Ord. 2023-02, 2-13-2023)
CHAPTER 11
PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS, SPAS AND HOT TUBS
SECTION:
10-11-1: Village Pool Code
10-11-2: Amendments To Code
10-11-3: Compliance Required; Application Of Provisions
10-11-4: Penalties
10-11-1: VILLAGE POOL CODE:
The swimming pool, spa and hot tub code of the village (hereinafter referred to
as the "pool code") shall hereafter be identical with the provisions of that
publication entitled international swimming pool and spa code, 2021 edition,
except as amended in section
10-11-2 of this chapter. Three (3) copies of the pool code are on file in the
office of the village clerk. (Ord. 2016-13, 3-14-2016; amd. Ord. 2020-04, 2-10-
2020)
10-11-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
Additions, insertions, changes and deletions to sections of the pool code are
hereby revised as follows:
Subsection [A] 101.1 Title (page 1-1, insert at second line)
   Insert: the village of Bloomingdale
Subsection [A] 101.2 Scope (page 1-1, add to new subsection)
   Add: The restrictions of title 11, chapter 5 of the village code, and all
amendments thereto, shall not be deemed to be modified by any provision of this
chapter; and such restrictions shall be controlling except in so far as this
chapter imposes greater restrictions by reason of life safety, in which case
the provisions of this code shall control.
Subsection [A] 103.1 Creation of Agency (page 1-2, change subsection)
   Change: The building and zoning department shall be charged with the
enforcement of the pool code, and the building commissioner shall be known as
the building official.
Subsection [A] 106.1 Construction Documents (page 1-4, add to end of
subsection)
   Add: Construction Documents. Unless otherwise specified by the building
commissioner, each application shall be accompanied by a minimum of three sets
of drawings and specifications signed and sealed by an architect licensed to
practice architecture as provided by the Illinois architectural act, or by a
structural engineer licensed to practice structural engineering as provided by
the Illinois architectural act, or by the property owner of said proposed
swimming pool, spa or hot tub when it is determined to be sufficient by the
building commissioner. Construction document submittal shall include
aforementioned plans, dimensioned property plat of survey indicating proposed
installation, all proposed equipment manufacturer's specifications, and a
grading plan should the installation require excavation, filling, change of
grades or retaining wall installation acceptable to the village engineer.
Subsection [A] 108.2 Schedule of permit fees (page 1-4, insert)
   Insert: The fee schedule shall be governed by section
10-1-2-1 (Building And Zoning Department Plan Review And Inspection Permit
Schedule Of Fees), of the village code.
Subsection [A] 110.4 Other Inspections (page 1-5, add to end of subsection)
   Add: Other Inspections. The building commissioner, or other authorized
representative, is hereby authorized and directed to periodically inspect
swimming pools, spas or hot tubs affected by this ordinance to insure
compliance with the health, sanitation and safety requirements set forth
herein. If, after inspection, the building commissioner finds that the
installation, use, maintenance or operation of a swimming pool, spa or hot tub
does not meet the requirements and regulations imposed by this ordinance, said
installation shall be closed and drained until all violations have been
corrected. Inspections during the construction or installation of a swimming
pool, spa or hot tub shall be performed based on the type of installation and
as required by the conditions of the permit.
Section [A] 111 Means of Appeals (page 1-6, delete entire section and add new
section)
   Delete entire section.
   Add: Means of Appeals. That any person, firm or corporation shall have the
right to appeal a decision of the building commissioner to the planning and
zoning commission. Means of appeal shall follow requirements set forth in
section 11-3-7 of the village code, Appeals.
Section [A] 115 Condemnation (page 1-7, add new section)
   Add: Condemnation. If any swimming pool, spa or hot tub has become dangerous
to life, limb or property or to the public because of structural defects,
deterioration, damage, or has become so unsanitary or out of repair as to
render the same unsafe, it shall be deemed a nuisance, and the building
commissioner, if and when he shall find any such conditions exist, shall
declare such swimming pool, spa or hot tub a nuisance and shall condemn the
same. The violations of the provisions of this section shall constitute a
misdemeanor, and any person, firm or corporation found guilty of a violation
thereof shall be subject to a fine in the manner and amount as provided by this
ordinance.
Section [A] 116 Rebuilding or Removal After Notice of Condemnation (page 1-7,
add new section)
   Add: Rebuilding or Removal After Notice of Condemnation. Rebuilding or
removal must begin within five (5) days of condemnation notice. Any swimming
pool, spa or hot tub condemned and declared to be a nuisance by the building
commissioner under the provisions of section [A] 115 hereof shall be put in a
safe or sanitary condition or be demolished and removed. Within five (5) days
after the service of notice in the manner and form provided in section [A] 117
and [A] 118 hereof, to make such swimming pool, spa or hot tub safe or sanitary
or to remove and demolish the same, the owner or owners or the party or parties
interested therein shall proceed to begin the work of making said installation
or structure safe or sanitary or the work of demolishing and removing the same
and shall prosecute said work continuously without unnecessary delay to a
completion thereof; provided, however, that should the owner or person in
possession of said swimming pool, spa or hot tub deem himself aggrieved by any
direction to repair or remove such installation alleged by the building
commissioner to be a nuisance, he shall, within a period of five (5) days after
the giving of the notice as required by section [A] 117 and [A] 118 hereof,
have the right to appeal in writing, from the judgment of the building
commissioner to the planning and zoning commission, which board shall make the
investigation and report its findings to the village board. If in the judgment
of the village board upon consideration of the report of the planning and
zoning commission, said swimming pool, spa or hot tub is unsafe or unsanitary
and should be declared a nuisance, it shall order the owner or other person in
possession thereof to forthwith begin the work of making safe or sanitary or of
demolishing and removing said installation.
Section 117 Unsafe Swimming Pools, Spas or Hot Tubs - Method of Service for
Notice (page 1-7, add new section)
   Add: Unsafe Swimming Pools, Spas, Hot Tubs - Method of Service for Notice.
Whenever the building commissioner shall under the provision of subsection
section 109 hereof, condemn and declare any swimming pool, spa or hot tub to be
a nuisance because of dangerous or unsanitary condition thereof, he shall cause
a notice in writing to be served upon the owner or owners, upon the tenant and
occupant thereof, if any, and upon the holder or holders of any encumbrances or
general tax lien thereof, if any, ordering and directing said swimming pool,
spa or hot tub to be put in a safe or sanitary condition or be demolished and
removed. Service of said notice may be effected by personal delivery thereof,
or by mailing a copy thereof by registered mail directed to the person
involved, at his last address known to the building commissioner or available
to him upon examination of the records of the county treasurer and county clerk
of DuPage County, Illinois, and by posting a copy thereof upon the premises
subject to such condemnation.
Section 118 Failure to Comply After Notice (page 1-7, add new section)
   Add: Failure to Comply After Notice. Upon the failure of the owners of said
swimming pool, spa or hot tub, or the party or parties interested therein,
within five (5) days after the service of the notice provided in section [A]
117 hereof or upon the failure to comply with an order of the village board as
provided in section [A] 116 hereof to begin the work of making safe or sanitary
or of removing and demolishing said installation, or upon the failure of the
owner or owners or the party or parties interested therein after beginning such
work to proceed continuously without unnecessary delay to completion thereof,
the village may take any action at law or in equity to restrain the use of such
installation, or may proceed against the owner or any person in possession of
the same in a penal action before the circuit court for the violation of the
provisions of this ordinance. The village may also, in its discretion, cause
the said installation to be secured to prevent access, cleaned of unsanitary
conditions detrimental to the public or removed in its entirety, after the
failure, within the time herein above provided for, to restore the same to a
safe condition.
Section 202 Definitions (page 2-3, Portable or Temporary Pool, add new
definition)
   Add: Portable or Temporary Pool. Any above-ground swimming or wading pool,
which may be removed and stored when not in use without dismantling or
disassembling, and which does not require electrical connections or filtering
and recirculating equipment. Use of a portable or temporary pool is restricted
to the residential property owner on the property it is located for the sole
use of his/her household and guests, and not for the purpose of profit or in
connection with any business operated for profit. All portable or temporary
pools are to be drained of all water and stored at the end of each day it is
used.
Section 202 Definitions (page 2-4, Residential Swimming Pool, delete definition
and add a new definition)
   Delete: Existing swimming pool definition.
   Insert: Residential Swimming Pool. Any container, receptacle, structure or
artificial basin for water having a depth at any point in excess of twelve (12)
inches in depth and which is used, or intended to be used, for swimming, wading
or recreational bathing. This includes in-ground, above-ground, on-ground
swimming pools, spas and hot tubs. It shall also include all equipment,
appliances, structures, facilities and other appurtenances incidental to, or
necessary and intended for, the use, operation and maintenance of a swimming
pool as defined herein. Use of a swimming pool is restricted to the residential
property owner on the property it is located for the sole use of his/her
household and guests, and not for the purpose of profit or in connection with
any business operated for profit.
Subsection 302.1 Electrical (page 3-1, delete and insert new subsection)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: Electrical Requirements. All electrical equipment and installations
shall conform to the provisions set out in title 10, chapter 4 of the village
code.
Subsection 302.2.1 Plumbing Requirements (page 3-1, add new subsection)
   Add: Plumbing Requirements. All plumbing equipment and installations shall
conform to the provisions set out in title 10, chapter 5 of the village code.
Subsection 302.2.2 Water Supply (page 3-1, add new subsection)
   Add: Water Supply. The water supply for swimming pools, spas, hot tubs and
portable or temporary pools shall be secured from the water distribution system
of the village of Bloomingdale when the pool is located on property served by
said system. No fixed piping arrangements shall exist, which will permit sewage
or waste water to enter the pool water system, nor shall any connection be
permitted which could permit water from the pool system to enter the household
water supply or the water distribution system of the village of Bloomingdale.
The water supply for a swimming pool, spa, hot tub, portable or temporary pool
shall meet the bacteriological standards of the Illinois department of public
health for safe drinking water.
Subsection 302.6 Wastewater Discharge (page 3-1, delete and insert new
subsection)
   Delete: Entire subsection.
   Insert: Discharge drainage from swimming pools, spas and hot tubs shall not
be permitted to drain so that any such drainage shall detrimentally affect or
constitute a nuisance or hazard to any adjoining properties. It shall be
mandatory to carry the water flow away from the direction of adjacent
properties so that the water will not empty onto such property as it flows from
the swimming pool, spa or hot tub discharge or drain outlet. No discharge or
drain outlet shall connect directly to any sewer line.
Subsection 302.9 Mechanical Requirements (page 3-1, add new subsection)
   Add: Mechanical Requirements. All mechanical equipment and installations
shall conform to the provisions set out in title 10, chapter 6 of the village
code of the village of Bloomingdale mechanical regulations.
Section 326 Safety Requirements for Portable or Temporary Pools (page 3-16, add
new subsection)
   Add: Safety Requirements for Portable or Temporary Pools. Portable or
temporary pools are to be completely emptied of water at the end of each day's
use. Such pools are to be removed and stored when not in use. Such pools are to
be removed and stored when all of the adult (18 years old or older) residents
of the property on which the pool is located will not be in clear sight of the
pool or will be absent from the property.
Section 327 Structural Stability and Construction Requirements (page 3-16, add
new section)
   Add: Structural Stability and Construction Requirements. All swimming pools,
spas, hot tubs, portable or temporary shall be constructed of an inert and
enduring material, nontoxic to humans. Pool sides shall be vertical and non-
climbable and shall be designed to withstand all anticipated loading for the
pool when filled with water and occupied by humans. All swimming pools, spas,
hot tubs and related equipment, structures or decks shall be installed and
constructed in compliance with all applicable construction provisions of title
10 of the village code and other applicable village development codes and
ordinances. All vegetation shall be removed from the area directly beneath a
permanent swimming pool, spa or hot tub.
Section 328 Placement and Location of Pools and Equipment (page 3-16, add new
section)
   Add: Placement and Location of Pools, Spas, Hot Tubs, Portable or Temporary
Pools, and Pool Equipment.
   A.   Location of swimming pools, spas, hot tubs, portable or temporary
pools, as measured from the outermost edges of the proposed installation(s),
shall be limited to property located within residential zoning districts, and
shall be further restricted as follows:
      (1.)   Only located in rear yards.
      (2.)   Not less than five (5) feet away from any side or rear property
line.
      (3.)   Not less than ten (10) feet away from the principal building,
detached accessory building or structure, porch or balcony (as measured from
eaves or edge of structures to the proposed installation).
      (4.)   No installation shall be permitted over any easements.
   B.   Location of pumps, filters, heaters and water disinfecting equipment
shall be limited and restricted as follows:
      (1.)   Only located in rear yards and permitted areas for pools, spas and
hot tubs.
      (2.)   Not less than five (5) feet away from any side or rear property
line.
      (3.)   Located so as not to constitute a hazard to children. Such items
and equipment shall not be situated so as to provide or allow entry into a
swimming pool, spa or hot tub. (Ord. 2016-13, 3-14-2016; amd. Ord. 2020-04, 2-
10-2020; Ord. 2023-02, 2-13-2023)
10-11-3: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Compliance Required: It shall be unlawful to design, construct, alter,
move, enlarge, replace, repair, demolish, remove, use or maintain a swimming
pool, spa or hot tub dangerous to life or detrimental to health in the village
in violation of the terms and provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Application to Existing Permits: This chapter shall not be construed to
extend to or affect any construction activity for which a permit was issued or
application for permit filed prior to the effective date hereof, except for
fees not yet due or payable, unless the building commissioner determines that
any provision of this chapter or the regulations incorporated herein by
reference should be applied for reasons of public health and safety. (Ord.
2016-13, 3-14-2016; amd. Ord. 2020-04, 2-10-2020; Ord. 2023-02, 2-13-2023)
10-11-4: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms and provisions of this
chapter shall be liable for a penalty in the amount of one hundred percent
(100%) of any unpaid fee and, in addition, shall be punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. (Ord. 2016-13, 3-14-2016; amd. Ord.
2020-04, 2-10-2020; Ord. 2023-02, 2-13-2023)
CHAPTER 12
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AND FLOOD CONTROL
SECTION:
10-12-1: County Regulations Adopted
10-12-1-1: Countywide Stormwater And Floodplain Ordinance (The "Countywide
Ordinance")
10-12-1-2: Complete Waiver Community
10-12-1-3: Oversight Committee
10-12-1-4: General Certifications
10-12-2: Complete Waiver Community Staffing
10-12-3: Complete Waiver Community Commitments
10-12-4: Exempt Development List
10-12-5-1: Applicability
10-12-5-2: Site Storage Runoff
10-12-5-3: Maintenance Of Stormwater Facilities
10-12-5-4: Easements And Access
10-12-5-5: Notice Of Violation
10-12-5-6: Variances
10-12-5-7: Penalties
10-12-1: COUNTY REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
10-12-1-1: COUNTYWIDE STORMWATER AND FLOODPLAIN ORDINANCE (THE "COUNTYWIDE
ORDINANCE"):
All articles, appendices, exhibits and schedules of the DuPage County
countywide stormwater and floodplain ordinance adopted by the DuPage County
board May 14, 2019, pursuant to provisions of DuPage County ordinance OSM-0029-
18, entitled "Amendments To Chapter 15 Of The DuPage County Code - DuPage
County Countywide Stormwater And Flood Plain Ordinance", excepting schedule A -
permit fee schedule are hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth
herein.
A.   Three (3) copies of the countywide ordinance are on file in the office of
the village clerk for public use and inspection, and available online at:
   http://www.dupageco.org/EDP/Stormwater_Management/1165/
B.   The provisions of the countywide ordinance as codified in this chapter
shall be effective July 25, 2012. (Ord. 2012-32, 7-23-2012; amd. Ord. 2019-25,
7-22-2019)
10-12-1-2: COMPLETE WAIVER COMMUNITY:
Pursuant to article XVII of the countywide ordinance, the village hereby
petitions and declares its intent to enforce completely the provisions of the
countywide ordinance within its municipal boundaries. (Ord. 2012-32, 7-23-2012)
10-12-1-3: OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE:
The village board of trustees is hereby designated as the oversight committee
responsible to oversee the implementation and enforcement of the countywide
ordinance. (Ord. 2012-32, 7-23-2012)
10-12-1-4: GENERAL CERTIFICATIONS:
The general certifications adopted by the DuPage County board April 24, 2012,
pursuant to ordinance OSM-002-12 "General Certifications For Chapter 15 Of The
DuPage County Code - DuPage Countywide Stormwater And Flood Plain Ordinance",
and presented below, are hereby adopted by reference.
   A.   Construction of accessory structures in a flood plain (GC no 1);
   B.   Construction of boardwalks (GC no 2);
   C.   Construction of boat lifts and piers in a flood plain, buffer, and/or
wetland (GC no 3);
   D.   Construction of a deck in a flood plain or buffer (GC no 4);
   E.   Demolition of structures in a flood plain, buffer, and/or wetland (GC
no 5);
   F.   Construction of posts, fencing, and guard rails in a flood plain or
buffer (GC no 6);
   G.   Construction of recreational facilities not located in a wetland (GC no
7);
   H.   Construction of sidewalks, trails, patios, and driveways outside of
wetlands (GC no 8);
   I.   Construction of storm sewer outfalls and outlet channels located in a
floodway, flood plain, buffer, and/or wetland (GC no 9);
   J.   Construction of shoreline or stream bank stabilization measures (GC no
10);
   K.   Construction of topsoil and sand restoration in a flood plain, floodway
or buffer, but not within a wetland (GC no 11); and
   L.   Construction of utilities (GC no 12). (Ord. 2012-32, 7-23-2012)
10-12-2: COMPLETE WAIVER COMMUNITY STAFFING:
Pursuant to article XVII of the Countywide ordinance, the Village, as a
complete waiver community is required to provide reasonable assurances to
DuPage County that it has available and will utilize qualified experts in the
administration and enforcement of the Countywide ordinance, as follows: (Ord.
2012-32, 7-23-2012)
   A.   The Village Engineer is hereby designated as the Stormwater Ordinance
Administrator and professional engineer.
   B.   The Civil Engineer is hereby designated as the deputy Stormwater
Ordinance Administrator and professional engineer. (Ord. 2012-32, 7-23-2012;
amd. Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
   C.   As necessary and applicable, in the administration and enforcement of
the Countywide ordinance, the Village will utilize the services of qualified
experts as follows:
      1.   A professional engineer with two (2) years experience in stormwater
and floodplain management.
      2.   A professional engineer with two (2) years experience in the
application of continuous hydrology and fully dynamic hydraulic models.
      3.   An environmental scientist.
      4.   A soil scientist. (Ord. 2012-32, 7-23-2012)
10-12-3: COMPLETE WAIVER COMMUNITY COMMITMENTS:
   A.   Annexation Or Preannexation Agreements: As part of its enforcement of
the Countywide ordinance, the Village requires that every development complies
with the stormwater standards of the Countywide ordinance, as amended, with
regard to any proposed development for which a plat of subdivision has not been
previously recorded or is to be amended after the Countywide ordinance was
adopted by the Village.
   B.   Rules And Procedures Of The County Stormwater Management Committee: As
part of its enforcement of the Countywide ordinance, the Village consents to be
bound by the rules and procedures governing its complete waiver community
status, including, without limitation, the County Stormwater Management
Committee's procedures for reasserting County jurisdiction over stormwater
management within the Village's boundaries. (Ord. 2012-32, 7-23-2012)
10-12-4: EXEMPT DEVELOPMENT LIST:
   VILLAGE OF BLOOMINGDALE OFFICIAL EXEMPT DEVELOPMENT LIST
             November 22,
Exempt       1991
Development  Revised           Previously Approved Ordinance Requirements
List         January 22,
             1992
Name Of      Address/     PIN3 Stormwater  Floodplain5 Wetland6 Soil Erosion7
Development1 Subdivision2      Facilities4
             November 22,
Exempt       1991
Development  Revised                Previously Approved Ordinance Requirements
List         January 22,
             1992
Name Of      Address/     PIN3      Stormwater  Floodplain5 Wetland6 Soil
Development1 Subdivision2           Facilities4                      Erosion7
Stratford    Stratford    2-17-200-
PUD          Lakes &      013       E           E           E        E
             Glenwood
                        2-17-200- E           E           E        E
                          017
                        2-17-200- E           E           E        E
                          020
                        2-17-200- E           E           E        E
                          021
                        2-17-200- E           E           E        E
                          023
                        2-17-200- E           E           E        E
                          024
                        2-17-200- E           E           E        E
                          025
            Bloomfield   Various   E           E           E        E
             Hills Unit 1
            Bloomfield   Various   E           E           E        E
             Hills Unit 2
             Bloomfield
            Hills Unit   Various   E           E           E        E
             3A
             Bloomfield
            Hills Unit   Various   E           E           E        E
             3B
            Bloomfield   Various   E           E           E        E
             Hills Unit 4
             Heritage at
            Stratford    Various   E           E           E        E
             Unit 1
             Heritage at
            Stratford    Various   E           E           E        E
             Unit 2
             Heritage at
            Stratford    Various   E           E           E        E
             Unit 3
             Heritage at
            Stratford    Various   E           E           E        E
             Unit 4
             Chateau
            Lorraine     Various   E           E           E        E
             Unit 1
             Chateau
            Lorraine     Various   E           E           E        E
             Unit 2
             Chateau
            Lorraine     Various   E           E           E        E
             Unit 3
            Bloomfield   Various   E           E           E        E
             Club Unit 1
            Bloomfield   Various   E           E           E        E
             Club Unit 2
            Bloomfield   Various   E           E           E        E
             Club Unit 3
            Bloomfield   Various   E           E           E        E
             Club Unit 4
            Bloomfield   Various   E           E           E        E
             Club Unit 5
             269          2-16-108-
            Springfield  031       E           E           E        E
             Dr
             269          2-16-108-
            Springfield  032       E           E           E        E
             Dr
             269          2-16-108-
            Springfield  033       E           E           E        E
             Dr
            None         2-09-401- E           E           E
             assigned     018
            None         2-09-401- E           E           E
             assigned     019
            None         2-09-401- E           E           E
             assigned     020
             261          2-09-401-
            Springfield  031       E           E           E        E
             Dr
            None         2-16-200- E           E           E
             assigned     042
            None         2-16-200- E           E           E
             assigned     043
             269          2-16-100-
            Springfield  033       E           E           E        E
             Dr
            None         2-16-300- E           E           E
             assigned     036
            Glen Garry   2-16-300- E           E           E        E
             Subdivision  041
            Various      2-17-400- E           E           E
            Various      2-17-401- E           E           E
            Various      2-17-402- E           E           E
            None         2-09-414- E           E
             assigned     001
            369 Army     2-20-207- E           E           E        E
             Trail Rd     001
            357 Army     2-20-207- E           E           E        E
             Trail Rd     002
             290          2-20-207-
            Springfield  003       E           E           E        E
             Dr
            245 Gary     2-20-205- E           E           E        E
             Avenue       013
            One Asa      2-20-205- E           E           E        E
             Plaza        021
            None         2-20-205- E           E           E
             assigned     029
            One Asa      2-20-205- E           E           E        E
             Plaza        032
            None         2-20-205- E           E           E
             assigned     004
            None         2-20-205- E           E           E
             assigned     005
            None         2-20-205- E           E           E
             assigned     015
            290          2-20-205- E           E           E        E
             Knollwood Dr 016
            405 Army     2-20-205- E           E           E        E
             Trail Rd     009
            391 Army     2-20-205- E           E           E        E
             Trail Rd     031
            50 Scott Dr  2-20-204- E           E           E        E
                          004
            52 Scott Dr  2-20-204- E           E           E        E
                          004
            54 Scott Dr  2-20-204- E           E           E        E
                          004
            363 Army     2-20-206- E           E           E        E
             Trail Rd     011
            None         2-20-206- E           E           E
             assigned     019
            None         2-20-206- E           E           E
             assigned     020
            None         2-20-206- E           E           E
             assigned     021
            None         2-20-206- E           E           E
             assigned     022
            240 Gary     2-20-201- E           E           E        E
             Avenue       022
            240 Gary     2-20-100- E           E           E        E
             Avenue       022
            246 Gary     2-20-201- E           E           E        E
             Avenue       023
            250 Gary     2-20-201- E           E           E        E
             Avenue       025
            252 Gary     2-20-201- E           E           E        E
             Avenue       026
            Bloomingdale 2-20-400- E           E           E        E
             Fashion Cen. 008
            412 Army     2-20-400- E           E           E        E
             Trail        009
            404 Army     2-20-400- E           E           E        E
             Trail        010
            355 Army     2-21-108- E           E           E        E
             Trail        009
            None         2-21-108- E           E           E
             assigned     011
            None         2-21-108- E           E           E
             assigned     005
            Glen Garry   2-21-101- E           E           E        E
             Subdivision  013
             241          2-21-102-
            Butterfield  023       E           E           E        E
             Dr
            251 Army     2-21-102- E           E           E        E
             Trail Rd     025
            Stratford    2-21-107- E           E           E        E
             Estates
            339 White    2-21-104- E           E           E        E
             Hall Terrace 010
            337 White    2-21-104- E           E           E        E
             Hall Terrace 011
            335 White    2-21-104- E           E           E        E
             Hall Terrace 012
            333 White    2-21-104- E           E           E        E
             Hall Terrace 013
            331 White    2-21-104- E           E           E        E
             Hall Terrace 014
            329 White    2-21-104- E           E           E        E
             Hall Terrace 015
            327 White    2-21-104- E           E           E        E
             Hall Terrace 016
            325 White    2-21-104- E           E           E        E
             Hall Terrace 017
            323 White    2-21-104- E           E           E        E
             Hall Terrace 018
            324 White    2-21-104- E           E           E        E
             Hall Terrace 019
            326 White    2-21-104- E           E           E        E
             Hall Terrace 020
            328 White    2-21-104- E           E           E        E
             Hall Terrace 021
            330 White    2-21-104- E           E           E        E
             Hall Terrace 022
            332 White    2-21-104- E           E           E        E
             Hall Terrace 023
            320 Old Mill 2-21-104- E           E           E        E
             Lane         024
            322 Old Mill 2-21-104- E           E           E        E
             Lane         025
            324 Old Mill 2-21-104- E           E           E        E
             Lane         026
            326 Old Mill 2-21-104- E           E           E        E
             Lane         027
            328 Old Mill 2-21-104- E           E           E        E
             Lane         028
            330 Old Mill 2-21-104- E           E           E        E
             Lane         029
            332 Old Mill 2-21-104- E           E           E        E
             Lane         030
            334 Old Mill 2-21-104- E           E           E        E
             Lane         031
            336 Old Mill 2-21-104- E           E           E        E
             Lane         032
            338 Old Mill 2-21-104- E           E           E        E
             Lane         033
            340 Old Mill 2-21-104- E           E           E        E
             Lane         034
Bloomingdale Various      2-21-300- E           E           E        E
Court PUD                 021
            Various      2-21-300- E           E           E        E
                          020
            Various      2-21-300- E           E           E        E
                          019
Covington    210          2-17-304-
Corporate    Covington Dr 031       E           E           E
Center
            200          2-17-304- E           E           E
             Covington Dr 042
            200          2-17-304- E           E           E
             Covington Dr 045
            190          2-17-304- E           E           E
             Covington Dr 044
            180          2-17-304- E           E           E
             Covington Dr 043
            180          2-17-304- E           E           E
             Covington Dr 039
            170          2-17-304- E           E           E        E
             Covington Dr 035
            160          2-17-304- E           E           E
             Covington Dr 036
            150          2-17-304- E           E           E
             Covington Dr 037
            140          2-17-304- E           E           E
             Covington Dr 038
            Various      2-17-305- E           E           E        E
            Various      2-17-300- E           E           E        E
            211          2-17-306- E           E           E
             Covington Dr 001
            462 Camden   2-17-306- E           E           E
             Ct           001
            455 Scott Dr 2-20-106- E           E           E
                          007
            220          2-20-105- E           E           E
             Covington Dr 001
            467 Fox Ct   2-20-105- E           E           E
                          001
            471 Fox Ct   2-20-105- E           E           E
                          002
            472 Fox Ct   2-20-105- E           E           E        E
                          003
            230          2-20-105- E           E           E        E
             Covington Dr 004
            230          2-20-105- E           E           E        E
             Covington Dr 005
            476 Brighton 2-20-105- E           E           E
             Dr           008
            468 Brighton 2-20-105- E           E           E        E
             Dr           009
            472 Brighton 2-20-105- E           E           E        E
             Dr           010
            464 Brighton 2-20-105- E           E           E
             Dr           011
            460 Brighton 2-20-105- E           E           E
             Dr           012
            456 Brighton 2-20-105- E           E           E
             Dr           013
            250          2-20-105- E           E           E        E
             Covington Dr 014
            471 Brighton 2-20-105- E           E           E        E
             Dr           015
            221          2-20-106- E           E           E
             Covington Dr 001
            221          2-20-106- E           E           E
             Covington Dr 002
            454 Scott Dr 2-20-107- E           E           E
                          001
            458 Scott Dr 2-20-107- E           E           E
                          002
            462 Scott Dr 2-20-107- E           E           E
                          003
            455 Scott Dr 2-20-106- E           E           E
                          007
            241          2-20-106- E           E           E
             Covington Dr 007
            251          2-20-107- E           E           E        E
             Covington Dr 004
            251          2-20-107- E           E           E        E
             Covington Dr 005
            None         2-20-107- E           E           E
             assigned     007
            455 Brighton 2-20-107- E           E           E
             Dr           008
            455 Brighton 2-20-107- E           E           E
             Dr           009
            Outlot B     None      E           E           E
                          assigned
Springbrook  Various      2-15-208- E           E           E        E
Villas
            Springbrook  2-15-209- E           E           E        E
            Drive        2-15-210- E           E           E        E
Tiffany      One Tiffany  2-15-114- E           E           E        E
Pointe East  Point        003
                        2-15-114- E           E           E        E
                          004
                        2-15-114- E           E           E        E
                          008
                        2-15-114- E           E           E        E
                          009
                        2-15-114- E           E           E        E
                          010
Bloomingdale 101 N        2-15-200-
Town Center  Bloomingdale 011       E           E           E        E
             Rd
             103 N        2-15-200-
            Bloomingdale 012       E           E           E        E
             Rd
                        2-15-200- E           E           E        E
                          046
                        2-15-200- E           E           E        E
                          050
                        2-15-200- E           E           E        E
                          051
Old Town     108 Schick   2-15-308- E           E           E        E
Commons      Rd           023
             148          2-15-308-
            Bloomingdale 026       E           E           E        E
             Rd
             150          2-15-309-
            Bloomingdale 029       E           E           E        E
             Rd
             152          2-15-309-
            Bloomingdale 030       E           E           E        E
             Rd
             154          2-15-309-
            Bloomingdale 031       E           E           E        E
             Rd
             156
            Bloomingdale          E           E           E        E
             Rd
             160
            Bloomingdale          E           E           E        E
             Rd
Leone        159          2-15-401-
Medical      Bloomingdale 002       E           E           E        E
Center       Rd
Park Place   None         2-16-200- E           E           E        E
Townhomes    assigned     034
            None         2-16-201- E           E           E        E
             assigned     010
            Outlot 3     2-16-201- E           E           E        E
                          021
            38 Royal     2-16-201- E           E           E        E
             Lane         011
            36 Royal     2-16-201- E           E           E        E
             Lane         012
            34 Royal     2-16-201- E           E           E        E
             Lane         013
            32 Royal     2-16-201- E           E           E        E
             Lane         014
            30 Royal     2-16-201- E           E           E        E
             Lane         015
            28 Royal     2-16-201- E           E           E        E
             Lane         016
            26 Royal     2-16-201- E           E           E        E
             Lane         017
            24 Royal     2-16-201- E           E           E        E
             Lane         018
            22 Royal     2-16-201- E           E           E        E
             Lane         019
            20 Royal     2-16-201- E           E           E        E
             Lane         020
            40 Royal     2-16-203- E           E           E        E
             Lane         006
            42 Royal     2-16-203- E           E           E        E
             Lane         007
            44 Royal     2-16-203- E           E           E        E
             Lane         008
            46 Royal     2-16-203- E           E           E        E
             Lane         009
            48 Royal     2-16-203- E           E           E        E
             Lane         010
            50 Royal     2-16-203- E           E           E        E
             Lane         011
            52 Royal     2-16-203- E           E           E        E
             Lane         012
            54 Royal     2-16-203- E           E           E        E
             Lane         013
            56 Royal     2-16-203- E           E           E        E
             Lane         014
            58 Royal     2-16-203- E           E           E        E
             Lane         015
            Outlot 5     2-16-203- E           E           E        E
                          016
            33 Royal     2-16-214- E           E           E        E
             Lane         001
            35 Royal     2-16-214- E           E           E        E
             Lane         002
            37 Royal     2-16-214- E           E           E        E
             Lane         003
            39 Royal     2-16-214- E           E           E        E
             Lane         004
            41 Royal     2-16-214- E           E           E        E
             Lane         005
            43 Royal     2-16-214- E           E           E        E
             Lane         006
            45 Royal     2-16-214- E           E           E        E
             Lane         007
            47 Royal     2-16-214- E           E           E        E
             Lane         008
            60 Royal     2-16-214- E           E           E        E
             Lane         009
            62 Royal     2-16-214- E           E           E        E
             Lane         010
            64 Royal     2-16-214- E           E           E        E
             Lane         011
            66 Royal     2-16-214- E           E           E        E
             Lane         012
            68 Royal     2-16-216- E           E           E        E
             Lane         013
            70 Royal     2-16-214- E           E           E        E
             Lane         014
            72 Royal     2-16-214- E           E           E        E
             Lane         015
            74 Royal     2-16-214- E           E           E        E
             Lane         016
            None         2-16-214- E           E           E        E
             assigned     017
Fessler's    103 Fesslers 2-15-104- E           E           E        E
Cove         Cove         015
            105 Fesslers 2-15-104- E           E           E        E
             Cove         019
            107 Fesslers 2-15-104- E           E           E        E
             Cove         020
            109 Fesslers 2-15-104- E           E           E        E
             Cove         035
            111 Fesslers          E           E           E        E
             Cove
            115 Fesslers          E           E           E        E
             Cove
            117 Fesslers          E           E           E        E
             Cove
            118 Fesslers          E           E           E        E
             Cove
            119 Fesslers          E           E           E        E
             Cove
            120 Fesslers          E           E           E        E
             Cove
            121 Fesslers          E           E           E        E
             Cove
            124 Fesslers          E           E           E        E
             Cove
            126 Fesslers          E           E           E        E
             Cove
            128 Fesslers          E           E           E        E
             Cove
            130 Fesslers          E           E           E        E
             Cove
            132 Fesslers          E           E           E        E
             Cove
            107 Lake     2-15-104- E           E           E        E
             Street       024
            109 Lake     2-15-104- E           E           E        E
             Street       025
Shell Oil    250 Army     2-23-303- E           E           E        E
Company      Trail Rd     002
                        2-23-303- E           E           E        E
                          007
Community    140          2-15-102-
Driving      Bloomingdale 014       E           E           E
School       Rd
Medinah      220 Glen     2-23-203- E           E           E        E
Lakes PUD    Ridge Ln     031
            229 Glen     2-23-203- E           E           E        E
             Ridge Ln     032
            Outlot A     2-23-203- E           E           E        E
                          038
            220 Wildwood 2-23-203- E           E           E        E
             Ct           039
            222 Wildwood 2-23-203- E           E           E        E
             Ct           040
            224 Wildwood 2-23-203- E           E           E        E
             Ct           041
            226 Wildwood 2-23-203- E           E           E        E
             Ct           042
            228 Wildwood 2-23-203- E           E           E        E
             Ct           043
            221 Wildwood 2-23-203- E           E           E        E
             Ct           044
            223 Wildwood 2-23-203- E           E           E        E
             Ct           045
            225 Wildwood 2-23-203- E           E           E        E
             Ct           046
            287 Wildwood 2-23-203- E           E           E        E
             Ct           047
            229 Wildwood 2-23-203- E           E           E        E
             Ct           048
            220 Deer     2-23-203- E           E           E        E
             Glen Way     049
            222 Deer     2-23-203- E           E           E        E
             Glen Way     050
            224 Deer     2-23-203- E           E           E        E
             Glen Way     051
            226 Deer     2-23-203- E           E           E        E
             Glen Way     052
            228 Deer     2-23-203- E           E           E        E
             Glen Way     053
            230 Deer     2-23-203- E           E           E        E
             Glen Way     054
            232 Deer     2-23-203- E           E           E        E
             Glen Way     055
            234 Deer     2-23-203- E           E           E        E
             Glen Way     056
            236 Deer     2-23-203- E           E           E        E
             Glen Way     057
            238 Deer     2-23-203- E           E           E        E
             Glen Way     058
            240 Deer     2-23-203- E           E           E        E
             Glen Way     059
            242 Deer     2-23-203- E           E           E        E
             Glen Way     060
            244 Deer     2-23-203- E           E           E        E
             Glen Way     061
            246 Deer     2-23-203- E           E           E        E
             Glen Way     062
             257          2-23-209-
            Willowbrige  009       E           E           E        E
             Way
            Various      2-23-210- E           E           E        E
            Various      2-23-211- E           E           E        E
            Various      2-23-212- E           E           E        E
            Various      2-23-213- E           E           E        E
            Various      2-23-214- E           E           E        E
            Various      2-23-215- E           E           E        E
            Various      2-23-216- E           E           E        E
            Various      2-23-217- E           E           E        E
            Various      2-23-218- E           E           E        E
East side
storage tank None         None      E           E           E        E
and pump     assigned     assigned
station
 
Notes:
      1.    Name of large subdivision or complex.
      2.    For large developments, general location (see map).
      3.    For large developments, provide range (see map).
      4.    Refers to detention and conveyance facilities.
      5.    Floodplain approval can be by local municipality or IDOT; also
riparian areas fall under this category.
      6.    Refers to projects approved by the U.S. army corps of engineers.
      7.    Approved soil erosion and sedimentation plan.
(Ord. 92-4, 1-27-1992)
10-12-5: BLOOMINGDALE AMENDMENTS TO THE STORMWATER ORDINANCE:
The Village of Bloomingdale hereby amends and augments the Countywide Ordinance
and is applicable to all areas incorporated into the Village of Bloomingdale.
10-12-5-1: APPLICABILITY:
The Bloomingdale Amendments to the Stormwater Ordinance shall be applicable to
all incorporated parcels within the Village of Bloomingdale as of the date of
approval of this amendment as well as any future parcels that annex to the
Village, and shall override and supercede the Regulation dates in Article III
Section 15-23.A and 15-23.B. All parcels in the Village shall be regulated by
the Bloomingdale Amendments to the Stormwater Ordinance and no "grandfathering"
is implied. (Ord. 2019-25, 7-22-2019)
10-12-5-2: SITE STORAGE RUNOFF:
Paragraph 15-72.D.3 of the Countywide Ordinance shall be amended to add the
following information pertaining to the Illinois State Water survey (ISWS)
Bulletin 70 data. The data contained in ISWS Frequency Distributions of Heavy
Precipitation in Illinois dated March 2019 shall be considered in stormwater
calculations to determine the required storage volume for development. The
design storm shall be the greater rainfall total from either the provisions of
paragraph 15-72.D.3 or the data contained in the Updated Bulletin 70
publication dated March 2019. The higher rainfall totals from either
publication shall be used to determine the required storage volume for the 100-
year 24-hour event and other calculations related to the stormwater storage
basin, storage volume and discharge rates. For the 100-year 24-hour storm
event, a fifteen percent (15%) additional storage volume requirement shall be
added to the calculated storage volume requirement as a factor of safety. (Ord.
2019-25, 7-22-2019)
10-12-5-3: MAINTENANCE OF STORMWATER FACILITIES:
Any owner of a parcel in the Village with a stormwater facility on said parcel
has an incumbent duty to ensure the functionality of the stormwater facility is
as intended at all times. The Bloomingdale Amendments to the Stormwater
Ordinance hereby adopt maintenance provisions for stormwater facilities on any
parcel in the Village. Section 15-55 of the Stormwater Ordinance, Long-Term
Access for Maintenance and Inspections is amended to add the following
provisions:
A.   Detention/Retention Basin Maintenance: Owners of any parcel with a
stormwater storage detention basin or stormwater storage retention basin shall
perform periodic maintenance to ensure the basin is functioning at all times as
intended. Such required periodic maintenance and inspections shall address and
include:
   1.   Algae Control: Any owner of a parcel containing a retention basin shall
have a plan for managing and controlling algae or other noxious or offensive
aquatic vegetation. The plan can include chemical treatment, aeration/fountain
mechanical methods, or combination thereof. The owner is responsible for
obtaining all necessary permits and compliance with all regulations for algae
control.
   2.   Erosion: Any owner of a parcel containing a stormwater facility shall
maintain stable ground surfaces to minimize soil erosion. Degraded surfaces,
washouts, landslides, or other forms of erosion shall be permanently stabilized
and repaired by the owner to prevent further erosion or reduction in water
quality.
   3.   Influent pipe system consists of that part of the drainage system that
collects runoff from the ground surface and conveys the storm water to a storm
water detention or retention basin, or other downstream pipe system. The
influent pipe system must be inspected on at least an annual basis or more
frequently if necessary to check and verify proper operation. Inlet, catchbasin
and manhole grates must be kept free of debris to permit water to enter the
storm sewer system. Catchbasins collect and retain solid debris and should be
cleaned on an annual basis, or at such frequency as needed based on the
accumulation rate of debris collected. The storm pipe system must be kept in
proper working condition, with pipe joint sections remaining soil tight. Open
joints or disjointed pipes should be repaired to prevent sink holes. Said sink
holes or other defects that allow for root intrusion, substances or materials
other than water to enter the system must be repaired.
   4.   Nuisance Wildlife: Any owner of a parcel containing a stormwater
facility shall be responsible for controlling nuisance wildlife that can affect
the performance or operation of the stormwater facility. Nuisance wildlife can
affect stormwater systems by blocking the flow of water, damaging or destroying
vegetation, affecting ground stabilization that results in erosion, degrading
or contributing to poor water quality, elevate water levels above intended
design level, or raise coliform levels in water. Such nuisance wildlife
includes but is not limited to beavers, raccoons, skunks, possums, ducks,
geese, groundhogs, hedgehogs, and otters.
   5.   Outlet Control: A detention/retention basin includes outlet control
(restrictor), structure housing the restrictor and storm sewer piping that
controls the rate of flow out of the detention or retention basin and conveys
the runoff downstream. The outlet control (restrictor) must be periodically
checked for proper functionality. Weekly inspection of the restrictor is
recommended to ensure that debris does not accumulate at the outlet control
which could affect proper operation of the basin drainage. Storm sewer pipes or
other conveyance system downstream of the outlet control should be checked to
maintain proper functionality. Storm sewers or swales should be kept free of
debris and cleaned as necessary to allow free flow of water.
   6.   Silt And Sediment Removal: Any owner of a parcel containing a
stormwater facility shall be responsible for removing any silt, sediment or
other debris which accumulates in a detention or retention basin. Frequency of
said maintenance shall be as needed to maintain the required storage volume and
water quality. Dredging of the basin, when necessary, shall be performed by the
owner to remove and dispose of long-term silt, sediment and debris build-up.
   7.   Storage Volume: The basin storage volume shall not be filled or
otherwise altered without prior written authorization from the Village
Engineer.
   8.   Vegetation: The detention basin bottom, and detention and retention
basin embankments shall be free of bare, exposed ground that is devoid of a
manicured, vegetated crop cover. In highly visible areas, the vegetation should
be mowed turf-grass, unless otherwise shown on approved drawings or stormwater
submittal to have a native vegetation plant cover or other landscape elements.
Invasive species are unsightly, and can result in operational or maintenance
difficulties with storage basins and must be controlled or managed to prevent
their spread in the basin or to surrounding areas or parcels. The vegetated
plant cover should control the growth of weeds to the greatest extent possible.
B.   Management Of Runoff On Residential Properties: All properties with
residential zoning, or residential in character, shall conform to the following
sections for managing runoff.
   1.   Controlling Runoff Onto Sidewalks Or Streets: The owner of any parcel
is responsible for directing and controlling runoff from downspouts and sump
pumps. Such runoff shall not result in a concentrated flow of water onto a
public sidewalk or into a public street in such a manner that causes hazard to
the paved surface, including but not limited to icing, stagnant or ponding
water, algae growth, slippery or slick surfaces. Such flow from downspouts or
sump pumps shall not be unnaturally concentrated and drained onto surrounding
parcels including the public sidewalks or streets.
   2.   Downspouts And Sump Pumps: The location and direction of the discharge
of any sump pump, downspout or other piped discharge from parcel must be
directed in such a manner that minimizes adverse impacts to surrounding
properties. Drainage discharge for sump pump and downspouts should follow the
Village Private Stormwater Discharge for Sump Pumps and Downspouts guidance, as
amended from time to time by the Village Engineer. Unless permitted by the
Village Engineer, downspouts and sump pumps should not be directed into any
side yard resulting in a nuisance on the parcel or any surrounding parcel.
Downspouts and sump pumps should not be extended in any manner that creates a
nuisance or adversely impacts surrounding parcels, including the downstream
sidewalks or roadway. Unless otherwise permitted by the Village Engineer in
writing, all piped discharge from downspouts or sump pumps shall be either
above or below grade and should drain on the surface of and across a minimum of
twenty feet (20') of pervious ground surface prior to leaving the site or shall
otherwise be mitigated.
   3.   Drainage And Grading: The grading on a parcel shall conform to the
original subdivision grading and drainage plan to the greatest extent
practical. No grading changes resulting in drainage modifications on any parcel
that affect any surrounding parcel, or upstream or downstream parcel shall not
be altered in any way by any person without prior written authorization from
the Village Engineer.
   4.   General Drainage Regulations: Runoff across the ground surface flows
naturally from the higher property, known as the dominant parcel, to a lower
parcel, known as the servient parcel. The dominant parcel has an inherent
advantage over the servient parcel based on the topography of the ground. The
dominant parcel can drain runoff onto the servient parcel provided that, in the
opinion of the Village Engineer, the runoff is not collected and concentrated
unnaturally, or generated by mechanical means, or unreasonably accelerated to
the servient parcel. The servient parcel must allow the runoff from the
dominant parcel to enter the servient parcel and the servient parcel cannot
block or prevent the natural flow of water from the dominant parcel. The
servient parcel is responsible for conveying the runoff from the dominant
parcel across the lower ground. (Ord. 2019-25, 7-22-2019)
10-12-5-4: EASEMENTS AND ACCESS:
A.   Easements And Access: Where a stormwater facility is located within an
easement or public utility and drainage easement or stormwater management
easement or other easement granted to the Village, the following provisions
shall apply:
   1.   No permanent buildings or accessory structures shall be placed on said
easement, but the easement may be used for shrubs, landscaping and other
purposes that do not then or later interfere with the stormwater facility. The
Village Engineer reserves the right to allow or permit in writing accessory
structures, including but not limited to decks, sheds, patios, retaining walls,
jungle gyms, or other accessory structures, if in his sole opinion the
functionality of the stormwater facility and easement is not compromised by the
proposed accessory structure.
   2.   Each owner shall be responsible for maintaining the stormwater facility
and shall not destroy or modify grades or slopes without first receiving prior
written approval from the Village Engineer.
   3.   In the event the owner fails to properly maintain the stormwater
facility, the Village of Bloomingdale or any other unit of local government
having jurisdiction over the drainage on the subject property, shall, upon ten
(10) days written notice, have and reserve the right but not the obligation to
perform or have performed on its behalf any maintenance work to or upon the
stormwater facility reasonably necessary to insure adequate stormwater
management, water storage detention or retention, free flow of water through
any stormwater facility including outlet control works. In the event of an
emergency or imminent hazard to persons or property in the opinion of the
Village Engineer, the ten (10) day written notice requirement is hereby waived.
   4.   In the event the Village of Bloomingdale, Illinois or any other unit of
local government having jurisdiction over drainage on the parcel shall be
required to perform or have performed on its behalf, any maintenance work to or
upon the stormwater facility, the cost together with the additional sum of ten
percent (10%) and upon recordation of a notice of lien within sixty (60) days
of completion of the work shall constitute a lien against all the applicable
parcels, which may be foreclosed by any action brought by or on behalf of the
Village of Bloomingdale, Illinois. (Ord. 2019-25, 7-22-2019)
10-12-5-5: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
A.   Whenever the Village Engineer discovers, finds, determines or reasonably
suspects that a person has violated a provision of the Bloomingdale Amendments
to the Stormwater Ordinance, the Village Engineer may, by written notice of
violation to the responsible person or persons and by posting a copy of said
notice of violation on the subject premises, order compliance.
B.   Such Notice of Violation ordering compliance may require without
limitation:
   1.   The suspension of activities causing malfunction of the stormwater
systems included in the amendments; and
   2.   Repair or restoration of the stormwater systems included in the
amendments to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer; and
   3.   Payment of fines, fees, permit costs required for the abatement and
remediation; and
   4.   Other reasonable actions, orders, provisions or requirements intended
to protect the public health, welfare and the environment.
C.   In the case of an emergency requiring immediate remediation to cure an
imminent hazard to persons or property in the opinion of the Village Engineer,
the Village may forego the notice requirements of section
10-12-5-4 and
10-12-5-5 of this Code and shall perform or cause to be performed such work to
cure the hazard. The Village reserves the right to recover such costs as
contained herein, per section
10-12-5-4 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-25, 7-22-2019)
10-12-5-6: VARIANCES:
Provisions of Article XVI of the Stormwater Ordinance shall not be applicable
to the Bloomingdale Amendments to the Stormwater Ordinance. Variances to the
Stormwater Ordinance must follow the procedures contained therein. Any variance
to the Bloomingdale Amendments to the Stormwater Ordinance shall be processed
by the following procedure:
A.   Request For Variance: Any person requesting a variance from one (1) or
more of the provisions of the Bloomingdale Amendments to the Stormwater
Ordinance must do so in writing to the Village Engineer. The request shall
identify each provision of this chapter from which a variance is requested and
the reasons why a variance should be granted.
B.   Authority To Grant Variances: The Village Engineer shall decide, in his
sole discretion, whether a variance is authorized for each provision of the
Bloomingdale Amendments to the Stormwater Ordinance identified in the variance
request on an individual basis.
C.   Conditions: The Village Engineer may authorize a variance only if the
person requesting the variance demonstrates that:
   1.   There will be no violation of any federal, state, or local regulation;
and
   2.   The approval of the variance will not cause or result in hazards or
potential hazards to persons or property; and
   3.   The approval of the variance will not have an adverse impact due to
stormwater runoff on any stormwater facility, or adjacent properties including
any right-of-way.
D.   Appeals: Any person aggrieved by any order, requirement, decision or
determination, including denial of a variance made by the Village Engineer
under the provisions of
10-12-5 of this Code shall have the right to appeal to the Village
Administrator. The application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the
Village Clerk within thirty (30) days after the date of such order,
requirement, decision or determination of the Village Engineer. In the event
the Village Administrator's decision is to overturn or overrule the Village
Engineer, a written determination shall be issued within fifteen (15) days of
the receipt of the appeal request. If the decision is not overturned or
overruled in writing by the Village Administrator, or no written determination
is issued, then the decision of the Village Engineer will stand. (Ord. 2019-25,
7-22-2019)
10-12-5-7: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms and provisions of the
Bloomingdale Amendments to the Stormwater Ordinance shall be liable for a
penalty in the amount of one hundred percent (100%) of any unpaid fee and, in
addition, shall be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-25, 7-22-2019)
CHAPTER 13
DISCLOSURES TO CONDOMINIUM PURCHASERS
SECTION:
10-13-1: Application Of Provisions
10-13-2: Written Disclosures Required
10-13-3: Purchaser Signature Required; Provision That Purchaser Has Read And
Understands Disclosure Required
10-13-4: Copy Of Disclosure To Village; Authority To Inspect Seller's Records
10-13-5: Penalty
10-13-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
This chapter shall apply to all condominiums built, converted and regulated by
the condominium property act of the state of Illinois 1 . (Ord. 2002-20, 6-3-
2002; amd. 2012 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 605/1 et seq.
10-13-2: WRITTEN DISCLOSURES REQUIRED:
Any developer of a new condominium development as well as any developer of a
rental apartment complex converted to condominiums shall provide written
disclosure to the purchaser of a "condominium unit" (as defined in the
condominium property act), prior to entering into a contract for the sale of
that condominium unit, of the following information:
   A.   The total number of parking spaces on the condominium property.
   B.   The total number of parking spaces mandated on the condominium property
by ordinance.
   C.   The total number of parking spaces included in the purchase of the
condominium unit.
   D.   The total number of spaces for shared use by condominium owners.
   E.   The total number of condominium parking spaces that will be exclusively
set aside for guest parking.
   F.   The ratio of parking spaces available for private ownership to the
total number of condominium units offered for sale.
   G.   The off street parking requirements of the village prohibiting all off
street parking between two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
daily.
   H.   Restrictions, if any, on parking vehicles in the private guest parking
areas of adjacent subdivisions where those guest parking spaces are
specifically restricted to owners of property in those subdivisions or their
guests.
   I.   Notice of IEPA noise guidelines that may pertain to noise generated at
the condominium property line from externally mounted heating and air
conditioning units on the condominium building. (Ord. 2002-20, 6-3-2002)
10-13-3: PURCHASER SIGNATURE REQUIRED; PROVISION THAT PURCHASER HAS READ AND
UNDERSTANDS DISCLOSURE REQUIRED:
The written notification mandated by section
10-13-2 of this chapter shall be signed by the prospective purchaser indicating
this disclosure has been made prior to entering into the contract for purchase
of the condominium unit. There shall be a provision in the disclosure
indicating that the prospective purchaser has read the disclosure and
understands all of the information therein pertaining to parking of vehicles on
the subject premises and on streets surrounding the condominium property. (Ord.
2002-20, 6-3-2002)
10-13-4: COPY OF DISCLOSURE TO VILLAGE; AUTHORITY TO INSPECT SELLER'S RECORDS:
The condominium developer or seller shall provide the village with a copy of
each executed written disclosure obtained from a purchaser within five (5)
business days after the disclosure has been obtained as set forth in section
10-13-2 of this chapter. Failure to make a timely tender of the written
disclosure to the village shall be a violation of this chapter. The village
shall have the right to inspect the files of the condominium seller to verify
that all required written consents have been obtained as required by this
chapter. The filing of the disclosure with the village shall be a condition for
final inspection and occupancy and for the final billing for utility service.
(Ord. 2002-20, 6-3-2002)
10-13-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating the terms and conditions of this chapter shall be
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 2002-20, 6-3-2002; amd. 2012 Code)
CHAPTER 14
VACANT OR ABANDONED BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
SECTION:
10-14-1: Village Vacant Or Abandoned Buildings And Structures Code
10-14-2: Purpose And Scope
10-14-3: Application And Interpretation Of Regulations
10-14-4: Definitions
10-14-5: Determination Of Vacant Or Abandoned Buildings Or Structures
10-14-6: Registration Of Vacant Or Abandoned Buildings Or Structures
10-14-7: Abatement Provisions, Buildings Or Structures
10-14-8: Right Of Entry And Inspection
10-14-9: Nuisance Abatement Provisions
10-14-10: Means Of Appeal
10-14-11: Penalties
10-14-1: VILLAGE VACANT OR ABANDONED BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES CODE:
This chapter, including any and all regulations adopted hereunder, shall
hereinafter be referred to and cited as the "Vacant or Abandoned Buildings and
Structures Code". (Ord. 2020-10, 3-9-2020)
10-14-2: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public life, health, safety and
welfare, to insure against the potential hazards of inadequate, defective or
unsafe vacant or abandoned buildings and structures. The regulations adopted
hereunder establish a program for identification, registration and regulation
of buildings or structures which are or become vacant or abandoned on and after
the effective date of these regulations. (Ord. 2020-10, 3-9-2020)
10-14-3: APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION OF REGULATIONS:
The building and zoning department shall be charged with the enforcement of
these regulations, and the building commissioner shall be known as the code
enforcement official charged with the application, interpretation, and
implementation of these regulations. (Ord. 2020-10, 3-9-2020)
10-14-4: DEFINITIONS:
           Any single or multi-tenant building or structure that has been unoccupied for a
           period of ninety (90) consecutive days and any of the following conditions exist:
           1.   Open to uninvited entry or trespass;
           2.   Damaged by fire, flood, weather, or vandalism to an extent which prohibits
           safe occupancy;
           3.   Is the site of loitering or vagrancy;
           4.   Is the site of unlawful criminal or quasi-criminal activity;
           5.   Lack of property maintenance and upkeep as evidenced by one or more
           violations of the Village Property Maintenance Code, Fire Code, or Zoning
ABANDONED  Regulations;
BUILDING   6.   Under notice for being in violation of Village Code(s);
or         7.   Boarded up for at least thirty (30) days;
STRUCTURE: 8.   Outstanding bills, invoices or fees in arrears to the Village for a period
           of time exceeding three hundred sixty-five (365) days;
           9.   Utilities are disconnected or not in use;
           10.   Not actively for sale or rent;
           11.   Under condemnation notice or legal order to vacate;
           12.   Structurally unsound;
           13.   Potential hazard or danger to persons.
           Exception: Not to include abandoned buildings or structures that are actively
           under construction, rehabilitation or renovation, and in compliance with Village
           Code. Not to include multi-tenant buildings or structures where are at least 50%
           of the square footage of the building or structure is occupied.
           Any single or multi-tenant building or structure, or portion thereof, that has
           been unoccupied for a period of ninety (90) consecutive days, no violation(s) of
           Village Code, and any of the following conditions exist:
           1.   Unoccupied and secured;
VACANT     2.   All lawful residential or business activity has ceased, including lack of
BUILDING   contents;
or         3.   Actively for sale or rent;
STRUCTURE: 4.   Actively a foreclosure, Sheriff sale, or up for auction;
           Exception: Not to include vacant unoccupied buildings or structures that are
           actively under construction, rehabilitation or renovation, and in compliance with
           Village Code. Not to include multi-tenant buildings or structures where are at
           least 50% of the square footage of the building or structure is occupied. (Ord.
           2020-10, 3-9-2020)
 
10-14-5: DETERMINATION OF VACANT OR ABANDONED BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES:
The building commissioner, or designee, shall evaluate buildings and structures
within the Village to determine compliance with regulations contained herein.
(Ord. 2020-10, 3-9-2020)
10-14-6: REGISTRATION OF VACANT OR ABANDONED BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES:
   A.   Registration Form: The owner(s) of a vacant or abandoned building or
structure shall register with the Village and provide information on a Vacant
or Abandoned Building or Structure Registration form provided by the Village,
and pay the required registration fee. The registration fee is an annual non-
prorated fee.
   B.   Registration Fees: Registration fee of $200.00 is due at time of
registration submittal to the building commissioner for review. This fee has
been established to support services rendered by the Village in the course of
its duties related to monitoring and acting upon vacant or abandoned buildings
or structures. Failure to register a vacant or abandoned building or structure
as required shall be cause for penalty in the amount of one hundred percent
(100%) of the unpaid registration fee, in addition, shall be punishable as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each day of violation. Unpaid fees and assessed fines
shall be a lien upon the property. Registration of a vacant or abandoned
building or structure shall not preclude the Village from taking necessary
action on a building or structure to make safe, including demolition. (Ord.
2020-10, 3-9-2020)
10-14-7: ABATEMENT PROVISIONS, BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES:
   A.   Conditions: If any building or structure has become dangerous to life,
limb or property or to the public because of structural defects, deterioration,
or damage, or has become so unsanitary or out of repair as to render the same
unsafe and unfit for occupancy or human habitation, it shall be deemed a
nuisance, and the building commissioner, if and when he shall find any such
conditions exist, shall declare such building or other structure a nuisance and
shall condemn the same, and no person, firm or corporation shall occupy, rent,
lease or use such building or other structure with or without compensation. The
violations of the provisions of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor,
and any person, firm or corporation found guilty of a violation thereof shall
be subject to a fine in the manner and amount as provided by section
1-4-1 of the village code.
   B.   Notice of Unsafe Building or Condemnation - Notices and Orders:
Whenever the building commissioner shall condemn and declare any building or
other structure to be a nuisance because of dangerous or unsanitary condition
thereof, he shall cause a notice in writing to be served upon the owner or
owners, upon the tenant and occupant thereof, if any, and upon the holder or
holders of any encumbrances or general tax lien thereof, if any, ordering and
directing said building or other structure to be put in a safe or sanitary
condition or be demolished and removed. Service of said notice may be effected
by personal delivery thereof, or by mailing a copy thereof by registered mail
directed to the person involved, at his last address known to the building
commissioner or available to him upon examination of the records of the county
treasurer and county clerk of DuPage County, Illinois, and by posting a copy
thereof upon the premises subject to such condemnation.
   C.   Notice of Unsafe Building or Condemnation - Notices and Orders Method
of Service: Such service shall be deemed to be properly served upon such owner
if a copy thereof is delivered to the owner personally; or by leaving the
notice at the usual place of abode, in the presence of someone in the family of
the age of 13 years or upwards, who shall be informed of the contents thereof,
provided that the person making service shall also mail a copy of the notice
with postage fully prepaid, addressed to the owner at his or her usual place of
abode; or by certified or registered mail addressed to the owner at the last
known address with return receipt requested; or if the certified or registered
letter is returned with receipt showing that it has not been delivered, by
posting a copy thereof in a conspicuous place in or about the structure
affected by such notice, or at least one publication of such notice in a local
newspaper of general circulation.
   D.   Reconstruction or Removal: Rebuilding, restoration or removal must
begin within five (5) days of condemnation notice. Any building or structure
condemned and declared to be a nuisance by the building commissioner shall be
put in a safe or sanitary condition or be demolished and removed. Within five
(5) days after the service of notice in the manner and form provided, to make
such building or structure safe or sanitary or to remove and demolish the same,
the owner or owners or the party or parties interested therein shall proceed to
begin the work of making said building or structure safe or sanitary or the
work of removing and demolishing the same and shall prosecute said work
continuously without unnecessary delay to a completion thereof; provided,
however, that should the owner or person in possession of said building or
structure deem himself aggrieved by any direction to repair or remove such
building or other structure alleged by the building commissioner to be a
nuisance, he shall, within a period of five (5) days after the giving of the
notice, have the right to appeal in writing from the judgment of the building
commissioner to the zoning board of appeals, which board shall make the
investigation and report its findings to the village board. If in the judgment
of the village board upon consideration of the report of the zoning board of
appeals, said building or structure is unsafe or unsanitary and should be
declared a nuisance, it shall order the owner or other person in possession
thereof to forthwith begin the work of making safe or sanitary or of
demolishing and removing said building or structure. After demolition, the
premises shall be maintained free from all unsafe and hazardous conditions.
Removal of all underground and in-ground structures is required. Restoration of
established grades is required to insure proper lot drainage in compliance with
village engineering regulations.
   E.   Noncompliance with Notice of Unsafe Buildings: Upon the failure of the
owners of said building or other structure, or the party or parties interested
therein, within five (5) days after the service of the notice to begin the work
of making safe or sanitary or of removing and demolishing said building or
other structure, or upon the failure of the owner or owners or the party or
parties interested therein after beginning such work to proceed continuously
without unnecessary delay to completion thereof, the village may take any
action at law or in equity to restrain the use of such structure, or may
proceed against the owner or any person in possession of the same in a penal
action before the Village of Bloomingdale Administrative Adjudication Court or
18th Circuit Court for the violation(s) of the provisions of this ordinance.
The village may also, in its discretion, cause the said structure to be secured
to prevent access, cleaned of unsanitary conditions detrimental to the public,
or removed in its entirety after the failure, within the time hereinabove
provided for, to restore the same to a safe condition.
   F.   Failure to Comply with Demolition Order: Whenever the owner of a
property fails to comply with a demolition order within the time period
prescribed, the building commissioner shall immediately report such failure to
comply to the corporate authorities. The corporate authorities may demolish, or
cause the demolition of dangerous and unsafe buildings or uncompleted and
abandoned buildings within the village by applying to the 18th Circuit Court
for an order authorizing such action to be taken with respect to any such
building if the owner or owners thereof, including the lien holders of record,
after at least 15 days written notice by mail to do so, have failed to demolish
it. Where, upon diligent search, the identity or whereabouts of the owner or
owners of any such building including the lien holders of record is not
ascertainable, notice mailed to the person or persons in whose name such real
estate was last assessed is sufficient notice under this subsection. The cost
of such demolition incurred by the Village of Bloomingdale, including court
costs, attorneys' fees and other costs related to the enforcement of this
subsection is recoverable from the owner or owners of such real estate and is a
lien thereon, which lien is superior to all prior existing liens and
encumbrances, except taxes. Within sixty (60) days after such demolition, the
Village of Bloomingdale shall file notice of lien of such cost and expense
incurred in the office of the county recorder. The notice must consist of a
sworn statement setting out (1) a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification thereof, (2) the amount of money representing the cost and
expense incurred, and (3) the date or dates when the cost and expense was
incurred by the Village or by the lien holder of record. Upon payment of the
cost and expense by the owner or persons interested in the property after
notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released by the Village and
the release may be filed of record as in the case of filing a notice of lien.
Where the dangerous condition of a structure is deemed by the corporate
authorities, upon recommendation of the code official to constitute an imminent
and immediate danger to human life, the Village may promptly raze or remove
said structure or a portion thereof which has been deemed to cause such a
danger in accord with applicable laws and procedures. (Ord. 2020-10, 3-9-2020)
10-14-8: RIGHT OF ENTRY AND INSPECTION:
   A.   Right of Entry: In order to safeguard the safety, health and welfare of
the public, the building commissioner is authorized to attempt to obtain
consent to enter at any reasonable time from any owner, occupant, or other
person in charge of a building, structure or property subject to this code for
the purpose of making inspections and performing duties under this code. Such
owner, occupant, or other person in charge shall be informed that entry by the
building commissioner is sought for the purpose of making inspection and
performing duties under this code. Failure to give consent to entry under this
section shall not be punishable by fine or imprisonment.
   B.   Search Warrant in Absence of Consent: If the building commissioner,
after a reasonable attempt to obtain consent, does not receive consent to enter
a building, structure or property subject to the code as described herein, the
building commissioner may seek in the 18th Circuit Court of DuPage County a
search warrant. An owner, occupant or other person in charge of a building,
structure or property subject to the provisions of this code, who is presented
with a search warrant obtained pursuant to this code, shall not refuse, impede,
inhibit, interfere with, restrict, or obstruct entry and free access to any
part of the structure or premises where an inspection authorized by the search
warrant is sought to be made.
   C.   Procurement of Search Warrants: A search warrant sought pursuant to
this code shall be sought in the 18th Circuit Court of DuPage County. The court
may consider any of the following factors along with such other matters as it
deems pertinent in its decision as to whether a warrant shall be issued:
      1.   Eyewitness account of violation.
      2.   Citizen complaints.
      3.   Tenant complaints.
      4.   Plain view violations.
      5.   Violations apparent from village records.
      6.   Property deterioration.
      7.   Age of property.
      8.   Nature of alleged violation.
      9.   Similar properties in the area.
      10.   Documented violations on similar properties in the area.
      11.   Passage of time since last inspection.
      12.   Previous violations on the property.
   D.   Re-occupancy of Abandoned Residential Building or Structure: No
abandoned residential building or structure shall be re-occupied until it has
been inspected and found to be in full compliance with all applicable Village
codes and ordinances and is approved by the building commissioner, all fees are
paid in full, and all other conditions set forth in this code are
satisfactorily complete.
   E.   Occupancy Inspection: No building or part thereof, hereafter erected,
or the structure of which shall hereafter be altered or repaired and for which
erection, alteration or repair a permit shall be required as provided in the
village code, and no existing building in which the character of the occupancy
is to be changed, shall be occupied or used in whole or in part until a
certificate of occupancy shall have been issued by the building commissioner.
Such certificate shall carry the certification of the building commissioner
that said building or part thereof conforms to the requirements of this and any
other applicable village code or ordinance, and that said building,
construction, alteration, or repair has been substantially completed in
accordance with plans and specifications upon which a building permit required
by village code was issued.
   F.   New Occupancy in Existing Non-Residential Space: No property, premises,
building or tenant space within a non-residential building or structure shall
be occupied or reoccupied without first having been inspected by the village
building and zoning department and the appropriate fire protection district to
insure compliance with public health, safety and any other applicable village
code or ordinance requirements. This verification of compliance is to be
initiated through a building permit application for an occupancy inspection.
   G.   Change in Use - Occupancy Certificate Requirements: No building upon
which a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued shall be used for a
different classification or group occupancy until a certificate of occupancy
for such different use shall have been issued by the building commissioner;
provided, however, that no certificate of occupancy shall be issued in any
event unless the occupancy or use of the building complies with the zoning law.
"Change of occupancy" is not intended to mean change of tenant or proprietor,
provided the new tenant is to occupy the building for a purpose, which would
not involve its reclassification into a different occupancy group. (Ord. 2020-
10, 3-9-2020)
10-14-9: NUISANCE ABATEMENT PROVISIONS:
   A.   Notice of Violation; Failure to Comply; Abatement by Village: Any owner
and/or occupant of real estate located within the village upon which a nuisance
or violation as indicated by this chapter exists shall be sent or served a
notice stating the specific violation. If the violation has not been corrected
within seven (7) days after receiving the notice, a citation will be issued by
the village for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed to have
been committed on each day which a violation continues to occur. A court order
will then be sought to allow the village, or a duly authorized contractor, to
enter upon the property to abate the nuisance. The village will also seek
reimbursement for abatement of the nuisance by court order.
   B.   Costs and Liens:
      1.   Any costs incurred by the village or a duly authorized contractor in
abating a nuisance, violation or any other charge imposed by the village under
this chapter shall be a lien upon the real estate in question as authorized
under the Illinois municipal code and shall be superior to all other liens and
encumbrances except tax liens; provided, that within sixty (60) days after such
cost and expense is incurred, the village, or a contractor performing such
services as authorized by the village, in his or in its own name, files notice
of lien in the office of the county recorder. The notice shall consist of a
sworn statement setting out: a) a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification thereof; b) the amount of money representing the cost and
expense incurred or payable for the service; and c) the date or dates when such
cost and expense was incurred by the village. The lien shall not be valid as to
any purchaser whose rights in and to such real estate have arisen subsequent to
the weed cutting or property maintenance actions by the village and prior to
the filing of the notice of lien. The lien shall not be valid as to any
mortgagee, judgment creditor or other lienor whose right in and to such real
estate arises prior to the filing of the notice.
      2.   Upon payment of the cost and expense by the owner or other persons
interested in such property after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall
be released by the village or person in whose name the lien has been filed, and
the release may be filed of record as in the case of filing notice of lien.
(Ord. 2020-10, 3-9-2020)
10-14-10: MEANS OF APPEAL:
Any person shall have the right to appeal a decision of the building
commissioner to the planning and zoning commission. Means of appeal shall
follow requirements set forth in section
11-3-7 of the village code. (Ord. 2020-10, 3-9-2020)
10-14-11: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms and provisions of this
chapter shall be liable for a penalty in the amount of one hundred percent
(100%) of any unpaid fee and, in addition, shall be punishable as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each day of violation. (Ord. 2020-10, 3-9-2020)
TITLE 11  1  ZONING REGULATIONS  1
Title; Purpose; Interpretation   1
Rules And Definitions   2
Administration And Enforcement   3
Site Development And Plan Review   4
General Zoning Provisions   5
Zoning Districts And Map   6
Residence Districts   7
General Requirements For All Residence Districts   7A
ER-1 Estate Residence District   7B
R-1 Single-Family Residence District   7C
R-2 Single-Family Residence District   7D
R-2A Single-Family Residence District   7E
R-2B Single-Family Residence District   7F
R-2C Single-Family Residence District   7F1
R-3 General Residence District   7G
R-4 Multiple-Family Dwelling Residence District   7H
R-5 Multiple-Family Dwelling High Rise District   7I
Business Districts   8
General Requirements For All Business Districts   8A
B-1 Neighborhood Business District   8B
B-2 Community Business District   8C
B-3 General Service Business District   8D
B-4 Automotive Service Business District   8E
O-D Office District   8F
R-R Hotel-Motel Resort And Recreational District   8G
M-1 Limited Manufacturing District   9
Planned Unit Development Districts   10
Business Park Planned Unit Development
District Of 75 To 250 Acres   10A
Planned Unit Development District Of
250 Acres Or More   10B
OTP Old Town Preservation District   11
Nonconforming Buildings, Structures And Uses   12
Off Street Parking And Loading   13
Signs   14
Antenna Structures And Earth Satellite Stations   15
Tree Preservation   16
Adult Uses   17
Planned Developments   18
Fencing And Screening   19
Exterior Lighting   20
 
Notes
  1.    ORDINANCE NO. 2012-18
   
     AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE VILLAGE OF BLOOMINGDALE MUNICIPAL
     CODE, AS AMENDED, TO ADD TITLE 11 (ZONING REGULATIONS), AS AN
     EXERCISE OF THE HOME RULE AUTHORITY OF THE VILLAGE OF
     BLOOMINGDALE, DUPAGE COUNTY, ILLINOIS
   
     Section 1: The village code of the village of Bloomingdale, Illinois (the
  "village code"), as amended, is hereby further amended by adding title 11
  (zoning regulations) herein.
   
     Section 2: To the extent that any prior ordinances or portions thereof are in
1 conflict with or inconsistent with title 11 (zoning regulations) of the village
  code, they are hereby repealed, except that ordinances passed after 2011-35 that
  are in conflict with title 11 (zoning regulations) of the village code shall
  remain in full force and effect and take precedence over the village code
  provisions established by this ordinance.
   
     Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in title 11 (zoning
  regulations) of the village code shall be considered as a continuation of said
  ordinance provision and the fact that some provisions have been deliberately
  eliminated by the village board shall not serve to cause any interruption in the
  continuous effectiveness of ordinances included in the village code.
   
  PASSED AND APPROVED this 9th day of April, 2012.
  1.    ORDINANCE NO. 2012-18
   
     AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE VILLAGE OF BLOOMINGDALE MUNICIPAL
     CODE, AS AMENDED, TO ADD TITLE 11 (ZONING REGULATIONS), AS AN
     EXERCISE OF THE HOME RULE AUTHORITY OF THE VILLAGE OF
     BLOOMINGDALE, DUPAGE COUNTY, ILLINOIS
   
     Section 1: The village code of the village of Bloomingdale, Illinois (the
  "village code"), as amended, is hereby further amended by adding title 11
  (zoning regulations) herein.
   
     Section 2: To the extent that any prior ordinances or portions thereof are in
1 conflict with or inconsistent with title 11 (zoning regulations) of the village
  code, they are hereby repealed, except that ordinances passed after 2011-35 that
  are in conflict with title 11 (zoning regulations) of the village code shall
  remain in full force and effect and take precedence over the village code
  provisions established by this ordinance.
   
     Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in title 11 (zoning
  regulations) of the village code shall be considered as a continuation of said
  ordinance provision and the fact that some provisions have been deliberately
  eliminated by the village board shall not serve to cause any interruption in the
  continuous effectiveness of ordinances included in the village code.
   
  PASSED AND APPROVED this 9th day of April, 2012.
CHAPTER 1
TITLE; PURPOSE; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Purpose And Intent
11-1-3: Interpretation
11-1-4: Separability
11-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known, cited, and referred to as the BLOOMINGDALE ZONING
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
11-1-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   This title is adopted for the purpose of:
      1.   Promoting the public health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience,
and general welfare.
      2.   Securing adequate light, pure air, and safety from fire and other
dangers.
      3.   Conserving the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
village.
      4.   Dividing the entire village into districts and classifying,
restricting, and regulating therein the trades and industries and the location,
construction, reconstruction, alteration, and use of buildings, structures, and
land, whether for residence, business, manufacturing, or other specified uses.
      5.   Avoiding or lessening congestion in the public streets.
      6.   Preventing the overcrowding of land through regulating and limiting
the height and bulk of buildings hereafter erected as related to land area.
      7.   Establishing, regulating, and limiting the building or setback lines
on or along streets, alleys, trafficways, drives, parkways, or property lines.
      8.   Regulating and limiting the intensity of the use of lot areas and
regulating and determining the area of open spaces within and surrounding such
buildings.
      9.   Establishing standards to which buildings or structures therein
shall conform.
      10.   Prohibiting uses, buildings, or structures incompatible with the
character of the residence, business, or manufacturing districts.
      11.   Preventing additions to and alterations or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations imposed hereunder.
      12.   Providing for the gradual elimination of those uses, buildings, and
structures which are incompatible with the character of the districts in which
they are made or located including, without being limited thereto:
         a.   Elimination of such uses of unimproved lands or lot areas when
existing rights of the persons in possession thereof are terminated, or when
the uses to which they are devoted are discontinued;
         b.   Elimination of uses to which such buildings and structures are
devoted if they are adaptable for permitted uses; and
         c.   Elimination of such buildings and structures when they are
destroyed or damaged in major part, or when they have reached the age fixed by
the corporate authorities of the village as the normal useful life of such
buildings or structures.
      13.   Providing for the acquisition, by purchase, condemnation, or
otherwise, of any buildings or structures which do not conform to the standards
fixed by the village.
      14.   Defining and limiting the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies as provided herein.
      15.   Prescribing penalties for the violation of the provisions of this
title or of any amendment hereto.
   B.   The zoning district regulations are designed to govern the erecting,
enlarging, reconstructing, moving, or structurally altering of each building or
structure and the use or change of use thereof or the use or change of use of
land in accordance with the function and type of physical development intended
for a specific zoning district as an integral part of the entire village. (Ord.
69-12, 4-23-1969)
11-1-3: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this title shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the
promotion of the public health, safety, morals and welfare.
   B.   Conflicting Provisions: Where the conditions imposed by any provision
of this title upon: 1) the use of land or buildings; 2) the bulk of buildings;
3) floor area requirements; 4) lot area requirements; and 5) yard requirements,
are either more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions
imposed by any other provision of this title or of any other law, ordinance,
resolution, rule or regulation of any kind, the regulations which are more
restrictive or which impose higher standards or requirements shall govern.
   C.   Easements, Covenants And Agreements: This title is not intended to
abrogate any easement, covenant or other private agreement; provided, that
where the regulations of this title are more restrictive or impose higher
standards or requirements than such easements, covenants or other private
agreements, the requirements of this title shall govern.
   D.   Existing Unlawful Structures: No building, structure or use not
lawfully existing on the effective date hereof shall become or be made lawful
solely by reason of the adoption of this title; and to the extent and manner
said unlawful building, structure, or use is in conflict with the requirements
of this title, said building, structure or use remains unlawful. (Ord. 69-12,
4-23-1969)
11-1-4: SEPARABILITY:
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the village president and the
board of trustees that the several provisions of this title are separable, in
accordance with the following:
   A.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision of
this title to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other provision of
this title not specifically included in said judgment.
   B.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of this title to a particular property, building
or other structure, such judgment shall not affect the application of said
provision to any other property, building or structure not specifically
included in said judgment. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Rules Of Word Construction
11-2-2: Definitions
11-2-1: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION:
The language set forth in the text of this title shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules of construction:
   A.   The singular number includes the plural and the plural the singular.
   B.   The present tense includes the past and the future tenses, and the
future the present.
   C.   The word "shall" is mandatory, while the word "may" is permissive.
   D.   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
   E.   Whenever a word or term defined in section
11-2-2 of this chapter appears in the text of this title, its meaning shall be
construed as set forth in the definition thereof; and any word appearing in
parentheses between a word and its definition herein shall be construed in the
same sense as that word.
   F.   All measured distances, expressed in feet, shall be to the nearest
integral foot; if a fraction is one-half foot (1/2') or more, the integral foot
next above shall be taken. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
11-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms, wherever they occur in this title, shall be
interpreted as herein defined:
ACCESSORY BUILDING: A subordinate building or a portion of a principal
building, the use of which is incidental and customary to that of the principal
building. Where an "accessory building" is attached to and made a part of the
principal building, such "accessory building" shall comply in all respects with
the requirements of this title applicable to the principal building. An
"accessory building", unless attached to and made a part of the principal
building, as above provided, shall not be closer than ten feet (10') to the
principal building.
ACCESSORY USE: A subordinate use which is clearly and customarily incident to
the principal use of a building or premises and which is located on the same
lot as the principal building or use except for such accessory parking
facilities as are specifically authorized to locate elsewhere.
ADDITION: The increasing of the cubic content of a building or the increasing
of its ground area.
AIRCRAFT: Any contrivance now known or hereafter invented for use in or
designed for navigation of or flight in the air.
AIRPORT (LANDING STRIP, HELIPORT, OR HELISTOP): Any premises which is used or
intended for use for the landing and takeoff of aircraft; and any appurtenant
areas which are used or intended for use for airport buildings or other airport
structures or rights of way, together with all airport buildings and structures
located thereon.
ALLEY: A right of way with a width not exceeding twenty four feet (24') which
affords a secondary means of access to abutting property.
ANIMAL HOSPITAL: Any building or portion thereof designed or used for the care,
observation, or treatment of domestic animals.
APARTMENTS: See definition of Dwelling, Multiple-Family.
ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS: A geometrical representation of a building in plane,
elevation, section or perspective; the process of making such a representation.
AUTOMOBILE LAUNDRY: Any building or portion thereof where automobiles are
washed using a conveyor, blower, steam cleaning equipment, or other mechanical
device of production line nature.
AUTOMOBILE MINIMART STATION: An automobile self-service station which offers or
includes, as an accessory use, the retail sale of prepackaged, nonprescription
drugs and convenience type food items.
AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD: Any area of land where three (3) or more motor
vehicles not in running condition, or the parts thereof, are stored in the open
and are not being restored to operation, or any land, building, or structure
used for the wrecking or storing of such automobiles or parts thereof.
AWNING: A rooflike cover, temporary in nature, which projects from the wall of
a building and which may overhang a street.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: That elevation of the highest flood of record, determined
by the Village Engineer's record of the elevations of the highest flood at
locations as indicated on the zoning map. "Base flood elevations" at
intermediate locations shall be interpolated along the watercourse between the
two (2) nearest base elevations, one each upstream and downstream. The
controlling "base flood elevation" for any building site shall be the same as
the "base flood elevation" at the nearest point of the watercourse, as measured
on a line perpendicular to the direction of the watercourse.
BASEMENT: A portion of a building located partly underground, but having less
than half its clear floor to ceiling height below the average grade of the
adjoining ground.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets or by a combination of one or more
streets and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, bulkhead lines,
or shorelines of waterways or corporate boundary lines.
BOARDING HOUSE (LODGING HOUSE, ROOMING HOUSE, TOURIST HOME): A building in
which is carried on the business of providing food or lodging for three (3) or
more persons but not more than twenty (20) persons who are not members of the
family of the owner or of the tenant of the premises where the food or lodging
is served, and only to such persons as may make contractual arrangements and
not to the general public.
BREWPUB: A restaurant-brewery that sells its beer on site. The beer is brewed
primarily for sale in the restaurant and bar. The beer is often dispensed
directly from the brewery's storage tanks. Where permitted by the
establishment's liquor license, the brewpub may be permitted to sell beer that
is produced and packaged in a sealed container on site, "to go".
BUILDABLE AREA (For The Purpose Of Measuring Lot Width): The first thirty feet
(30') of lot depth immediately in back of the front yard setback line.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls and
intended for the shelter, housing, or enclosure of any person, animal, or
chattel. When any portion thereof is completely separated from every other
portion by a party wall, then such portion shall be deemed to be a separate
"building".
BUILDING, ACCESSORY: A subordinate building or portion of a principal building,
the use of which is incidental to that of the principal building and customary
in connection with that use.
BUILDING, COMPLETELY ENCLOSED: A building separated on all sides from the
adjacent open space or from other buildings or structures by a permanent roof
and party walls and by exterior walls pierced only by windows and normal
entrance or exit doors.
BUILDING, DETACHED: A principal building surrounded by open space on the same
lot.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from the established curb level
or existing terrain, whichever is higher, to the highest point of the coping of
a flat roof, or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the mean height level
between eaves and ridge for gable, hip or gambrel roofs. Chimneys, towers,
spires, elevator penthouses, cooling towers and similar projections other than
signs shall not be included in calculating "building height".
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A nonaccessory building in which is conducted the
principal use of the lot on which is located.
BUILDING, RESIDENTIAL: A building arranged, designed, used, or intended to be
used for residential occupancy by one or more families. "Residential buildings"
include, but are not limited to, the following types: single-family detached
dwellings, two-family dwellings, and multiple-family dwellings.
BUILDING, TEMPORARY: Any building not designed to be permanently located in the
place where it is or where it is intended to be placed or affixed.
BULK: A composite characteristic of a given building as located upon a given
lot, not definable as a single quantity, but involving all of the following
characteristics:
   A.   Size and height of building;
   B.   Location of exterior walls at all levels in relation to lot lines,
streets, or to other buildings;
   C.   Gross floor area of the building in relation to lot area (floor area
ratio);
   D.   All open spaces allocated to the building; and
   E.   The amount of lot area provided per dwelling unit.
BUSINESS: An occupation, employment or enterprise which occupies time,
attention, labor, and materials, or wherein merchandise is exhibited or sold,
or where services are offered.
CELLAR: The portion of a building located partly or wholly underground and
having half or more than half of its clear floor to ceiling height below the
average grade of the adjoining ground. In dwellings, except for single-family
residences, a "cellar" shall not be used for the purposes of sleeping or the
preparation of food.
CLUB OR LODGE, PRIVATE: A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide
members paying dues which owns, hires, or leases a building or portion thereof,
the use of such premises being restricted to members and their guests.
CONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: Any building or structure which:
   A.   Complies with all the regulations of this title or of any amendment
hereto governing bulk of the zoning district in which said building or
structure is located; or
   B.   Is designed or intended for a permitted or special use as applicable in
the district in which it is located.
COURT, HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the lowest level of a court to the
mean height of its bounding walls.
COURT, INNER: An open, uncovered, unoccupied space surrounded on all sides by
walls or by walls and an interior lot line. The latter is also a "lot line
court".
COURT, LENGTH OF OUTER: The mean horizontal distance between the open and
closed ends of an outer court.
COURT, OUTER: An open, uncovered, unoccupied space, other than a yard, on the
same lot with a building, extending directly to and having at least one side
thereof open for its full width upon a street, alley or other permanent public
open space.
CURB LEVEL: The level of the established curb in front of a building or
structure measured at the center of such front. Where no "curb level" has been
established, the "curb level" shall be deemed to be the established level of
the centerline of the street surface in front of a building or structure
measured at the centerline of such front.
DECIBEL: A unit of measurement of the intensity (loudness) of sound. Sound
level meters which are employed to measure the intensity of sound are
calibrated in "decibels".
DERMAL PIGMENTATION ESTABLISHMENT, PERMANENT: Any establishment at which the
act of puncturing the skin and inserting indelible colors to create permanent
pigmentation or color is performed, as is often associated with tattoos.
DISTRICT: Sections of the village of Bloomingdale for which the regulations
governing the height, the area, or the use of buildings and premises are the
same.
DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment, or part thereof, in which is provided
facilities to serve or consume commodities, or both, which is intended to occur
primarily in patrons' automobiles parked on the premises.
DRIVE-THROUGH USE: A use or part thereof in which products or services are
dispensed to persons at windows, terminals or other locations of such use where
access thereto is gained by such persons by way of motor vehicles. Such uses
often include, without limitation, food and beverage establishments,
pharmacies, banks, dry cleaners and merchandise or product drop off areas.
DWELLING: A building, or portion thereof, designed or used exclusively for
residential occupancy, including one-family dwellings, two-family dwellings,
and multiple-family dwellings; but not including hotels, motels, boarding or
rooming houses, tourist homes, and trailers, with or without wheels.
DWELLING, ATTACHED (GROUP, ROW, AND TOWN HOUSES): A dwelling which is joined to
other dwellings at both sides by party walls, as one of a series of not more
than six (6) dwellings arranged in a row including the semidetached dwellings
at the ends, and not more than two (2) stories in height.
DWELLING, DETACHED: A dwelling which is entirely surrounded by open space on
the same lot.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A dwelling containing three (3) or more dwelling
units.
DWELLING, SEMIDETACHED: A dwelling which is joined to another dwelling at one
side only by a party wall.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A detached building designed for and intended to be
occupied as a residence by only one family and servants.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A dwelling designed for or occupied exclusively by two
(2) families living in separate housekeeping units, where each dwelling unit is
detached and not semidetached.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY DUPLEX: A dwelling designed for or occupied exclusively by
two (2) families living in separate housekeeping units, the two (2) dwelling
units being semidetached.
DWELLING UNIT: A group of rooms constituting all or part of a dwelling, being a
residential accommodation, including complete kitchen facilities, permanently
installed, which are arranged, designed, used or intended for use exclusively
as living quarters for one family and not more than an aggregate of two (2)
roomers or boarders. Where a private garage is structurally attached, it shall
be considered as a part of the building in which the "dwelling unit" is
located.
EFFECT OF SEPARATE ENTRANCE: Any dwelling wherein there is provided means of
ingress and egress separate from those provided for the first floor shall be
considered a two-family or multiple-family dwelling.
EFFICIENCY UNIT (STUDIO APARTMENT): A dwelling unit consisting of one principal
room, together with bathroom, kitchen, hallway, and closets, and may contain a
dining alcove directly off the principal room, provided such dining alcove does
not exceed one hundred twenty five (125) square feet in area.
ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION CENTER: A terminal at which electric energy is received
from the transmission system and is delivered to the distribution system only.
ELECTRIC SUBSTATION: A terminal at which electric energy is received from the
transmission system and is delivered to other elements of the transmission
system and, generally, to the local distribution system.
ESTABLISHMENT OF USE: Whenever reference is made to the "establishment of a
use", or by other words to the same effect, such language shall refer either to
the creation of a new use or to the alteration or modification of an existing
use.
FAMILY: One or more persons each related to the other by blood, marriage, or
legal adoption, or a group of not more than three (3) persons not all so
related, together with his or their domestic servants, maintaining a common
household in a dwelling unit. A "family" may include two (2) roomers, boarders,
or permanent guests, whether or not gratuitous.
FARM: An area which is used for the growing of the usual farm products such as
vegetables, fruits, trees, and grain, and their storage on the area, as well as
for the raising thereon of the usual farm poultry and farm animals for the use
or consumption by the person or persons operating the farm. The term "farming"
includes the operating of such an area for one or more of the above uses,
including the necessary accessory uses for treating or storing the produce;
provided, however, that the operation of such accessory uses shall be secondary
to that of the normal farming activities; and provided further, that "farming"
does not include the feeding of garbage or offal to swine or other animals.
FENCE: See definitions of "fence" at section
11-19-3 of this title.
FILLING STATION: Any building or premises used for the dispensing, sale, or
offering for sale at retail of any automotive fuels or oils. When the
dispensing, sale, or offering for sale is incidental to the conduct of a public
garage, the premises is classified as a "public garage".
FIREARMS PRACTICE FACILITY, INDOOR: An establishment for the practicing of
target shooting on an established target range(s) within an enclosed building
and meeting the standards of the U.S. department of energy range design
criteria. The sale of firearms and associated products may be permitted as an
accessory use.
FLOOD RESERVOIR: A ponding area created for the purpose of impounding
floodwaters and alleviating any flood damage which might result from manmade
fills.
FLOODPLAIN: That contiguous land area adjacent to a watercourse whose elevation
is equal to or below the flood base elevation, including any land which is
surrounded on more than one-half (1/2) its perimeter by land having an
elevation equal to or lower than the base flood elevation.
FLOOR AREA (For The Purpose Of Determining The Floor Area Ratio, Conversions Of
Existing Structures, And Maximum Size Of Businesses And Establishments): The
sum of the horizontal area of the floor space contained in all floors,
including a basement floor, but not including a cellar floor, of a building or
buildings on a lot, measured in square feet from the exterior faces of the
exterior walls of each building, or from the centerline of party walls
separating two (2) buildings. Such "floor area" shall also include:
   A.   Space devoted to elevator shafts and stairwells at each floor;
   B.   Floor space used for mechanical equipment when the structural headroom
exceeds seven feet ten inches (7'10") in height, except equipment such as
bulkheads, water tanks, and cooling towers, when located on the roof, whether
or not such equipment is in the open or enclosed;
   C.   Floor space in that part of a half story where the headroom is seven
feet ten inches (7'10") or more in height;
   D.   Floor space devoted to interior balconies, mezzanines, and enclosed
porches;
   E.   Floor space devoted to accessory uses in the principal building and in
the accessory building or buildings; and
   F.   Floor space devoted to enclosed off street parking and off street
loading.
FLOOR AREA RATIO: The numerical value obtained through dividing the floor area
of a building or buildings by the net lot area on which such building or
buildings are located.
FREQUENCY: The number of oscillations per second in a sound or other type of
wave measuring the pitch of the resulting sound.
FRONTAGE: All property on one side of a street between two (2) intersecting
streets (crossing or terminating), measured along the line of the street, or if
the street is dead ended, then all of the property abutting on one side between
an intersecting street and the dead end of the street.
FRONTAGE ROAD: A road constructed parallel to and immediately adjacent to the
right of way of a primary highway, and designed to serve the properties
fronting on said primary highway.
FULL SERVICE STATION: An automobile service station which, in addition to the
retail dispensing of vehicular fuels, performs, as an accessory use, automotive
maintenance, service, or repair (excluding bodywork) including, but not limited
to, the sale and installation of lubricants, tires, batteries, and similar
accessories for automotive vehicles to owner representatives. Such station may
also allow, as an option, customer dispensing of vehicular fuels at certain
pump islands.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building or an accessory portion of the principal
building which is intended for and used for storing the private passenger
vehicles and one commercial vehicle of not more than one ton load capacity of a
family or families resident upon the premises, which shall be limited to three
(3) parking spaces for single-family dwellings, and in multiple-family
dwellings, shall be limited in the number of parking spaces to one and one-half
(11/2) times the number of dwelling units, plus one, and in which no business,
service or industry connected directly or indirectly with the automotive
vehicles is carried on; provided, that not more than one-half (1/2) of the
space may be rented for the private passenger vehicles of persons not resident
on the premises; except, that all the space in a garage of one or two (2) car
capacity may be so rented.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: Any building within which automotive vehicles are painted,
repaired, rebuilt, reconstructed or stored for compensation.
GARAGE, STORAGE: A building used for housing only of motor vehicles pursuant to
previous arrangements and not by transients, and where no equipment or parts
are sold and vehicles are not rebuilt, serviced, repaired, hired or sold;
except, that fuel, grease or oil may be dispensed within the building to
vehicles stored therein.
GOLF COURSE: Public, semipublic or private grounds over which the game of golf
is played, including accessory buildings and land uses incidental thereto, and
consisting of at least twenty five (25) acres for each nine (9) hole "par 3"
course.
GRADE: A. For buildings having walls adjoining one street only, the elevation
of the sidewalk at the center of the wall adjoining the streets.
   B.   For buildings having walls adjoining more than one street, the average
of the elevations of the sidewalk at the center of all walls adjoining the
streets.
   C.   For buildings having no wall adjoining the street, the average level of
the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of the
building.
   D.   The closest wall approximately parallel to a street line is to be
considered as adjoining the street. Where no sidewalk exists, the "grade" shall
be established by the Village Engineer.
GROUND FLOOR AREA: The lot area in square feet covered by a single-family
dwelling, measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls of the
building. Such area shall include only the area devoted to dwelling purposes,
including enclosed utility rooms on the ground floor of a dwelling, and shall
not include area devoted to garage, breezeway or carport.
GROUP HOME: A specialized residential care home serving up to five (5)
unrelated persons with developmental disabilities and no more than two (2)
resident support staff, which is licensed, certified or accredited by
appropriate local, state or national bodies. Group homes do not include a
residence which serves persons as an alternative to incarceration for a
criminal offense, or persons whose primary reason for placement is substance or
alcohol abuse, or persons whose primary reason for placement is the treatment
of a communicable disease.
HEAVY COMMERCIAL USES AND EQUIPMENT: Includes uses and equipment of a kind not
generally involving purchase or use by the average resident in the usual
conduct of matters pertaining to living and residence in the community, as
contrasted with and distinguished from the usual general retail and service
uses. "Heavy commercial uses" are exemplified by sales and service of
earthmoving equipment, prime source turbines and generators, industrial heating
apparatus, factory type machine tools, and data processing equipment.
HOME OCCUPATION: A gainful occupation or profession conducted by a member of a
family residing on the premises and where the business or profession is
conducted wholly within the dwelling.
HOTEL: A building containing not less than fourteen (14) lodging rooms, a
general kitchen and dining room, a common entrance lobby, halls and stairway;
and where lodging rooms do not have a doorway opening directly to the outdoors,
except for emergencies; and where more than fifty percent (50%) of the lodging
rooms are for rent, with or without meals, to transient guests for a continuous
period of less than thirty (30) days.
HOTEL, APARTMENT: A hotel in which at least fifty percent (50%) of the hotel
accommodations are for occupancy by permanent guests (30 days or more).
INSTITUTION: A building occupied by a nonprofit organization or a nonprofit
establishment for public use.
JUNKYARD: An open area where waste, used or secondhand materials are bought,
sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled or handled including, but
not limited to, scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags, rubber tires, and
bottles. A "junkyard" includes an auto wrecking yard, but does not include such
uses as are conducted entirely within enclosed buildings.
KENNEL: Any premises where four (4) or more domestic animals over four (4)
months of age are owned, boarded, bred and/or offered for sale.
LODGING HOUSE: See definition of boarding house (lodging house, rooming house,
tourist home).
LODGING ROOM: A room rented as sleeping and living quarters, but without
cooking facilities, and with or without an individual bathroom. In a suite of
lodging rooms, each room which provides sleeping accommodations shall be
counted as one "lodging room".
LOT: Except in the case of a planned development, a parcel of land of record in
the office of the recorder of deeds of DuPage County, Illinois, which is
occupied or intended for occupancy by one principal building, together with
permitted accessory buildings and required open spaces, and having its
principal frontage upon a street.
LOT AREA: The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the vertical planes through
front, side, and rear lot lines.
LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the junction of and abutting on two (2) or more
intersecting streets; or a lot at the point of deflection in alignment of a
single street, the interior angle of which is one hundred thirty five degrees
(135°) or less.
LOT DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the rear
lot line of a lot measured within the lot boundaries.
LOT, INTENSITY OF USE: The relation which the built over portion of a lot,
called the "building area", has to the whole area of the lot.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT LINE: A property boundary line of any lot held in single or separate
ownership; except, that where any portion of the lot extends into the abutting
street or alley, the "lot line" shall be deemed to be the street or alley right
of way lines.
LOT LINE, FRONT: That boundary line of a lot which is along an existing or
dedicated street lot line and which is established by the owner as a "front lot
line". On corner lots, the owner may select either street lot line as the
"front lot line".
LOT LINE, REAR: That boundary of a lot which is most distant from and is, or is
approximately, parallel to the front lot line. If the "rear lot line" is less
than ten feet (10') in length, or if the lot forms a point at the rear, the
"rear lot line" shall be deemed to be a line ten feet (10') in length within
the lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any boundary of a lot which is not a front or rear lot line.
LOT OF RECORD: A single parcel of land that is: a) a designated lot created and
delineated in a duly recorded plat of subdivision in the office of the recorder
of deeds of DuPage County, Illinois; or b) described and conveyed by a deed
recorded in the office of the recorder of deeds of DuPage County, Illinois;
provided, however, that: a) a parcel of land that is described and conveyed by
recorded deed must have met all applicable zoning and subdivision requirements
then in force; and b) if the party identified in such deed as the grantor or
seller of such parcel of land that is described and conveyed by recorded deed
also owned a parcel of land that was then contiguous to such parcel of land
that is described and conveyed by recorded deed, then such contiguous parcel of
land must also have met all applicable zoning and subdivision requirements then
in force.
LOT, REVERSED CORNER: A corner lot, the street side lot line of which is
substantially a continuation of the front lot line of the first lot to its
rear.
LOT, THROUGH: A lot which has a pair of opposite lot lines along two (2) more
or less parallel streets and which is not a corner lot. On a "through lot",
both street lines shall be deemed front lot lines, except, in the case where an
entire block consists of through lots, there shall be one common front lot
line.
MAIN BUILDING OR USE: The main or primary purpose for which land or a structure
or use thereon is designed, arranged or intended, or for which it may be
occupied or maintained under this title. All other structures or uses on the
same lot and incident or supplementary thereto and permitted under this title
shall be considered accessory uses.
MARQUEE (CANOPY): A rooflike structure of permanent nature which projects from
the wall of a building and may overhang the public way.
MEDICAL CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is registered by the Illinois department of agriculture to
perform necessary activities to provide only registered medical cannabis grown
and cultivated to be packaged and distributed to registered medical cannabis
dispensing organizations with usable medical cannabis in accordance with the
laws of the state of Illinois. In addition a cultivation center must be located
at least two thousand five hundred feet (2,500') from any daycare center,
school or area zoned for residential use.
MEDICAL CANNABIS DISPENSING CENTER: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is registered by the Illinois department of financial and
professional regulation to acquire medical cannabis from a registered
cultivation center for the purpose of dispensing cannabis, paraphernalia, or
related supplies and educational materials to registered qualifying patients in
accordance with the laws of the state of Illinois. In addition a dispensary
cannot be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of a school or daycare
center or located in a residential neighborhood.
MICROBREWERY: A business establishment where malt beverages of alcoholic
content are produced for distribution, retail or wholesale, on or off premises,
with a capacity of less than fifteen thousand (15,000) U.S. barrels of beer per
calendar year. The establishment may include, as an ancillary use, an on site
taste testing area and other uses such as a restaurant or tavern as permitted
by the village of Bloomingdale zoning ordinance and/or liquor commissioner.
MICRO-WINERY: A business establishment where wine with alcoholic content is
produced, fermented and aged for distribution, retail or wholesale, on or off
premises with a capacity of less than 10,000 cases per calendar year and where
the grapes and/or other fruit is grown in an offsite, remote location. For the
purpose of this definition, a case shall be defined as twelve (12), 750 ml
bottles. The establishment may include, as an ancillary use, an onsite taste
testing area and other uses such as food sampling, as permitted by the Village
of Bloomingdale Zoning Ordinance and/or Liquor Commissioner.
MOTEL (TOURIST COURT): A building containing lodging rooms having adjoining
individual bathrooms, and where each lodging room has a doorway opening
directly to the outdoors, and more than fifty percent (50%) of the lodging
rooms are for rent to transient tourists for a continuous period of less than
thirty (30) days.
MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL: A building and premises in which freight shipped by
motor truck or railroad is received, assembled, sorted, and rerouted for local,
intrastate or interstate shipment by motor truck.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any self-propelled, wheeled vehicle designed primarily for
transportation of persons or goods along public streets.
MOVED: The act of permanently establishing a structure upon a portion of land
after removing same from another part of the same or a different lot, tract or
parcel of land.
NET LOT AREA: The area inside of lot lines, exclusive of streets and alleys.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING: Any building which does not comply with all of the
regulations of this title governing bulk for the district in which such
building is located, or is designed or intended for a nonconforming use.
NONCONFORMING USE: A building, improvement or use which lawfully existed on any
lot or premises prior to the effective date hereof, but which, at that time and
thereafter, does not comply with the regulations of this title for the district
within which such building, improvement or use is located.
NOXIOUS MATTER: Material which is capable of causing injury or malaise to
living organisms or is capable of causing detrimental effects upon the health
or the psychological, social, or economic well being of human beings.
NURSING HOME: A long term healthcare facility that provides full time care and
medical treatment for people who are unable to take care of themselves.
OCTAVE BAND: A term denoting all frequencies between any given frequency and
double that frequency.
OCTAVE BAND FILTER: An electrical frequency separator, designed according to
standards formulated by the American Standards Association and used in
conjunction with a sound level meter to take measurements in specific octave
intervals (American standard for sound-level meters, ASS no. 224.3-1944).
OPEN SALES LOT: Any land used or occupied for the purpose of buying, selling or
renting passenger cars, trucks, trailers, motor scooters, motorcycles, boats,
aircraft or monuments, and for the storing of same prior to sale or rental.
PACKAGE LIQUOR STORE: A business establishment where alcoholic beverages are
kept and sold and where such alcoholic beverages are not generally imbibed on
the premises. A package liquor store differs from a microbrewery and tavern in
that liquors and other alcoholic beverages are not produced on site.
PARTICULATE MATTER: Material which is suspended in or discharged into the
atmosphere in a finely divided form, as a liquid or solid, at atmospheric
temperature and pressure.
PARTY WALL: A wall starting from the foundation and extending continuously
through all stories to or above the roof which separates one building from
another, and is in joint use by each building.
PATIO: A level, unenclosed surface structure, usually brick, concrete, or other
form of mostly pervious pavement, located at the finished grade, usually
directly adjacent to or attached to a building.
PERFORMANCE STANDARD: A criterion to control noise, odor, smoke, toxic or
noxious matter, vibration, fire and explosive hazards or glare or heat
generated by or inherent in uses of land or buildings.
PERSON: Every natural individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation
or organization of any kind.
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT: A use of land in single ownership or control, where the
specific requirements of a zoning district may be modified, which offers
benefits to the neighborhood of which it is a part or to the general public
welfare beyond those required by this title, and which use of land will contain
or provide amenities not otherwise required by law including, but not limited
to, provisions for common open space, recreational facilities, or specific
design, engineering, architectural, site planning or landscape features.
PLOT: Any parcel of land, subdivided or unsubdivided.
PROMOTIONAL SALE OR PROGRAM: The use of outdoor displays for the promotion of
store sales.
REFUSE: All waste products resulting from human habitation, except sewage.
RESALE ESTABLISHMENT: General household merchandise originally sold at retail
and previously owned by individuals or households, including clothing,
furniture, home decor items, kitchen utensils and small appliances, consumer
electronics, sporting goods, toys, recreational equipment and other household
goods, but excluding merchandise marketed, held out, sold, valued or otherwise
considered as antique merchandise, and excluding pawnshops and precious metal
purchase shops.
RESEARCH LABORATORY: A building or group of buildings in which are located
facilities for scientific research, investigation, testing or experimentation,
but not facilities principally for the manufacture or sale of products.
REST HOME: See definition of Nursing Home.
RINGELMANN CHART: A chart which is described in the U.S. bureau of mines
information circular 6888 and on which are illustrated graduated shades of gray
for use in estimating the light obscuring capacity of smoke.
RINGELMANN NUMBER: The number of the area on the Ringelmann chart that
coincides most nearly with the light obscuring capacity of smoke.
ROADWAY: That portion of a street between the regularly established curb lines
or that part, improved or unimproved, which is used or intended to be used for
vehicular travel.
ROOMING HOUSE: See definition of Boarding House (Lodging House, Rooming House,
Tourist Home).
ROW HOUSE: See definition of Dwelling, Attached (Group, Row, And Town Houses).
SCREENING: A structure erected or vegetation planted for concealing from
viewers the area behind it.
SELF-SERVICE STATION: An automobile service station where the dispensing of
vehicular fuels is performed primarily by individual patrons and which does not
perform any manner of automotive maintenance, service, or repair.
SETBACK, FRONT YARD: The minimum horizontal distance between the front lot line
and the line of any main or accessory building or other structure located on
the lot, disregarding steps.
SIDEWALK SALE: The selling of merchandise on the exterior of a commercial
establishment, generally on the sidewalk adjacent to the building.
SMOKE UNITS, NUMBER OF: The number obtained by multiplying the smoke density in
Ringelmann numbers by the time of emission in minutes. For the purpose of this
calculation, a Ringelmann density reading is made at least once every minute
during the period of observation; each reading is then multiplied by the time
in minutes during which it is observed; the various products are then added
together to give the total number of smoke units observed during the total
period under observation.
SOUND LEVEL METER: An instrument standardized by the American Standards
Association for measurement of the intensity of sound.
STABLE, PRIVATE: Any building which is located on a lot on which a dwelling is
located, designed, arranged or used for not more than four (4) horses for the
private use of occupants of the dwelling, not exceeding six hundred (600)
square feet in area.
STABLE, PUBLIC: A building where horses are kept for hire or sale.
STAND, ROADSIDE: A structure for the display and sale of products with no space
for customers within the structure itself.
STEEPLE: An unoccupied, ornamental tower built on or above the roof of a
building.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor next above; or if there is no floor above, the space
between the floor and the ceiling next above. A basement shall be counted as a
"story" if the floor of such basement is less than three feet (3') below grade
or if the ceiling of such basement is more than five feet (5') above grade.
STORY, HALF: A space under a sloping roof which has the line of intersection of
roof decking and wall not more than three feet (3') above the top floor level
and, in which space, not more than sixty percent (60%) of the floor area, is
completed for principal or accessory use.
STREET (AVENUE, PLACE, LANE, ROAD, BOULEVARD, TERRACE OR PARKWAY): All property
dedicated or intended for public or private street, highway, freeway, or
roadway purposes or subject to easements therefor.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change, other than incidental repairs, in the
supporting members of a building or structure such as bearing walls,
partitions, foundations, columns, beams, or girders; or any substantial change
in the roof or exterior walls.
STRUCTURE: Anything erected, the use of which requires more or less permanent
location on the ground, or attached to something having a permanent location on
the ground. A sign or other advertising device, detached or projecting, shall
be construed to be a separate "structure". A patio, regardless of the material
used for construction, shall be construed to be a "structure".
STUDIO APARTMENT: See definition of Efficiency Unit (Studio Apartment).
SWIMMING POOL: Any temporary or permanent artificial pool or receptacle for
water installed, constructed or maintained in, on or above the ground (not
including those enclosed and located entirely within a dwelling), having a
perimeter of more than twenty five feet (25') and a depth of more than two feet
(2') at any point. A "swimming pool" shall be considered to be a main building
and use; provided, however, that a "swimming pool" may be considered to be an
accessory building or use customarily incidental to a dwelling when located on
the same lot therewith and designed and used for swimming or bathing in
connection with such dwelling solely by the persons living therein or their
private guests. No "swimming pool" designed or used for any commercial or other
nonresidential purpose shall be considered to be an accessory building or use
customarily incident to a dwelling.
TAVERN: An establishment where liquors are sold to be consumed generally on the
premises. A tavern differs from a microbrewery and brewpub, in that liquors and
other alcoholic beverages are not produced on site. Packaged liquor may be
sold, but only as part of an ancillary use when permitted by the village of
Bloomingdale zoning ordinance and/or liquor commissioner.
TOURIST HOME: See definition of Boarding House (Lodging House, Rooming House,
Tourist Home).
TOWNHOUSE DWELLINGS: See definition of Dwelling, Attached (Group, Row, And Town
Houses).
TOXIC MATERIAL: A substance (liquid, solid or gaseous) which, by reason of an
inherent deleterious property, tends to destroy life or impair health.
TRAILER (CAMPER) (TRAVEL): An automobile or truck drawn highway vehicle
designed to serve as temporary living quarters while traveling or camping.
TRAILER, HOUSE: Any vehicle or portable structure constructed so as to permit
occupancy thereof for lodging or dwelling purposes or for use as an accessory
building or structure in the conduct of a business, trade or occupation, and
which is so designed and constructed that it is, or may be, mounted on wheels
and used as a conveyance on streets and highways, and which is propelled or
drawn by its own or other motive power.
TRAILER PARK: Any premises on which is parked one or more trailers, or any
premises used or held out for the purpose of supplying to the public a parking
space for one or more such trailers. The term does not include sales lots on
which automobiles or unoccupied trailers, new or used, are parked for purposes
of inspection and sale.
UNIFIED SHOPPING CENTER: Two (2) or more commercial establishments located on
the same site and under the control of one association or management firm.
USE: The purpose or activity for which the land or building thereon is
designed, arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained.
USE, ACCESSORY: A subordinate use which is clearly and customarily incidental
to the principal use of a building or premises, and which is located on the
same lot as the principal building or use, except for such accessory parking
facilities as are specifically authorized to be located elsewhere.
USE, LAWFUL: The use of any building, structure or land that conforms with all
the regulations of this title, or any amendment hereto, and which conforms with
all the codes, ordinances and other legal requirements, as existing on the
effective date hereof, or any amendments hereto, for the structure or land that
is being examined.
USE, NONCONFORMING: See definition of Nonconforming Use.
USE, PERMITTED: Any use which may be lawfully established in a particular
district or districts, provided it conforms with all requirements, regulations,
and performance standards, if any, of such district.
USE, PRINCIPAL: The main use of land or building, as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use.
USE, SPECIAL: Any building, structure, and use which complies with the
applicable regulations governing special uses.
USE, TEMPORARY: A use which is permitted for only a limited period of time.
USED CAR LOT: Any land used or occupied for the purpose of buying and selling
secondhand passenger cars and/or trucks and the storing of same prior to sale.
VENDING MACHINE: A machine for dispensing merchandise or services designed to
be operated by the customer.
VISION CLEARANCE: An open, unoccupied triangular space at the street corner or
a corner lot, the space being defined as a setback line extending across the
corner between points established on the street lines by measurements from the
corner.
YARD: An open space on a lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its
lowest level to the sky. A "yard" extends along a lot line and at right angles
to such line to a depth or width specified in the yard regulations for the
zoning district in which such lot is located.
YARD, CORNER SIDE OR SIDE YARD ABUTTING A STREET: A side yard that adjoins
either a roadway right of way or a private street, which, unlike a typical
interior side yard, extends from the front lot line to the rear lot line.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the front of a lot and being the minimum
horizontal distance between the street line and the main building or any
projection thereof other than the projection of the usual steps.
YARD, INTERIOR SIDE: A yard extending along a side lot line between the front
yard and the rear yard.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the rear of a lot and being the minimum
horizontal distance between the rear lot line and the rear of the main building
or any projections other than steps. On corner lots, the rear yard shall be
considered as parallel to the street upon which the lot has its least
dimension. On both corner lots and interior lots, the rear yard shall, in all
cases, be at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
YARD, SIDE: Either a corner side yard/side yard abutting a street or an
interior side yard, as the case may be. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969; amd. Ord. 82-4,
2-8-1981; Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992; Ord. 2008-14, 3-24-2008; Ord. 2011-10, 2-28-
2011; Ord. 2011-38, 11-14-2011; 2012 Code; Ord. 2014-26, 6-9-2014; Ord. 2014-
42, 10-13-2014; Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014; Ord. 2015-03, 1-12-2015; Ord. 2017-
09, 3-13-2017; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017; Ord. 2020-24, 10-12-2020; Ord. 2020-
28, 11-9-2020; Ord. 2022-22, 5-9-2022)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-3-1: Administrative Officials
11-3-2: Building And Zoning Official
11-3-3: Certificate Of Occupancy
11-3-4: Special Uses
11-3-5: Amendments
11-3-6: Authorized Variations
11-3-7: Appeals
11-3-8: Fees
11-3-9: Enforcement And Penalty
11-3-1: ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIALS:
The administration of this title is hereby vested in three (3) offices of the
government of the village as follows: (Ord. 2011-10, 2-28-2011; amd. Ord. 2014-
48, 10-27-2014)
   A.   Building and zoning official;
   B.   Police department; and (Ord. 2011-10, 2-28-2011)
   C.   Planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
11-3-2: BUILDING AND ZONING OFFICIAL:
   A.   Created: In the village, the village administrator shall appoint a
building and zoning official with the authority, responsibility, and duties as
set forth in this title and such other ordinances and codes of the village that
may exist from time to time. (Ord. 2007-20, 5-24-2007)
   B.   Duties: The following shall be the duties of the building and zoning
official:
      1.   Determine conformance of application for building permits with
regulations of this title and make and maintain records thereof;
      2.   Issue certificates of occupancy and make and maintain records
thereof;
      3.   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures, and use of land to
determine compliance with the terms of this title;
      4.   Maintain permanent and current records of this title including, but
not limited to, all maps, amendments and special uses, variations, appeals, and
applications therefor, and designate on the zoning district map each amendment
and special use, in addition to such records which the village is required to
keep; (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
      5.   Receive all matters to come before the planning and zoning
commission and assign a consecutive number for identification in the order in
which they are received and, insofar as is practicable, place them on the
agenda of the planning and zoning commission in the numerical order in which
they are received;
      6.   Initiate, direct, and review, from time to time, a study of the
provisions of this title and make written reports of recommendations to the
planning and zoning commission not less frequently than once each year; and
(Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
      7.   Issue permits for the erection of temporary structures in accordance
with regulations of the village building code. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
11-3-3: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Certificate Required: Any land vacant on the effective date hereof, and
any building or structure, or addition or major alteration thereto, constructed
after the effective date hereof, shall not be used or occupied until a
certificate of occupancy has been issued by the building and zoning official.
No new use shall be made of any land, building, or structure until a
certificate of occupancy has been issued.
   B.   Application For Certificate: Every application for a building permit
shall be deemed to be an application for an occupancy certificate. Every
application for an occupancy certificate for a new use of land or existing
building or structure where no building permit is required shall be made to the
building and zoning official.
   C.   Inspection; Issuance Of Certificate: An occupancy certificate shall be
issued only after the building and zoning official has inspected the premises
and finds:
      1.   It to be in compliance with all applicable regulations of the zoning
district in which it is located; and
      2.   That the use or building or structure is in conformance with the
plans and specifications for which the building permit was issued.
   D.   Temporary Certificate: The building and zoning official may issue only
one temporary occupancy certificate for each application for a building permit
as follows:
      1.   For a period not to exceed six (6) months from the date of its
issuance, and with provisions, if required, for an extension of not more than a
total of three (3) additional months; and
      2.   That the portion of the land, building, or structure for which the
temporary occupancy certificate is issued has been completed and meets the
requirements as set forth under subsections C1 and C2 of this section, and the
remaining portion of the land, building, or structure is in the process of
completion.
   E.   Contents Of Certificate: Every certificate of occupancy shall be dated,
shall state that the use or occupancy complies with the provisions of this
title and shall be signed by the building and zoning official.
   F.   Approval Or Denial Of Certificate: The occupancy certificate shall be
issued, or written notice shall be given, to the applicant specifying the
reasons why a temporary or permanent certificate cannot be issued not later
than fourteen (14) days after the building and zoning official is notified in
writing that the building or premises is ready for occupancy. (Ord. 69-12, 4-
23-1969)
11-3-4: SPECIAL USES:
   A.   Purpose: The development and execution of this title is based upon the
division of the village into districts, within which districts the use of land
and buildings and the bulk and location of buildings and structures in relation
to the land are substantially uniform. It is recognized, however, that there
are certain uses which, because of their unique characteristics, cannot be
properly classified in any particular district or districts without
consideration, in each case, of the impact of those uses upon neighboring land
and of the public need for the particular use at the particular location. Such
special uses fall into two (2) categories:
      1.   Uses publicly operated or traditionally affected with a public
interest.
      2.   Uses entirely private in character, but of such an unusual nature
that their operation may give rise to unique problems with respect to their
impact upon neighboring property or public facilities.
   B.   Initiation: Any person having a freehold interest in land, or a
possessory interest entitled to exclusive possession, or a contractual interest
which may become a freehold interest, or an exclusive possessory interest, and
which is specifically enforceable, may file an application to use such land for
one or more of the special uses provided in this title in the zoning district
in which the land is located. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
   C.   Processing Application:
      1.   Filing; Required Information: An application for a special use shall
be filed with the village clerk on a form prescribed by the president and board
of trustees. The application shall be accompanied by such plans or data, or
both, as specified by the planning and zoning commission, and shall include a
statement in writing by the applicant and adequate evidence showing that the
proposed special use will conform to the standards set forth herein for special
uses. Copies of such application shall be forwarded by the board of trustees to
the planning and zoning commission with the request to hold a public hearing.
(Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
      2.   Notices: The applicant shall give notices of the public hearing as
follows: (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
         a.   Persons Required To Be Notified: To the persons to whom the
current real estate tax bills are sent, if any, as shown on the record of the
local real estate tax assessor, of all lots lying within two hundred fifty feet
(250') of a property line of the lot for which the application has been filed.
(Ord. 96-40, 9-9-1996)
         b.   Contents: All notices shall be in writing and shall give the
time, place, and purpose of such hearing and shall be mailed not more than
thirty (30) days nor less than fifteen (15) days in advance of such hearing.
The notice shall be sent by certified mail, properly addressed as shown on the
tax assessor's rolls and with sufficient postage affixed thereon, with return
receipt requested. The applicant shall file a sworn affidavit with copies of
the notices with the village clerk, showing the names and addresses of all
notices the applicant has sent. Said affidavit shall be conclusive presumption
of giving of said notices.
         c.   Publication: The village clerk shall cause a notice of time,
place, and purpose of such hearing to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the village not more than thirty (30) days nor less than
fifteen (15) days in advance of such hearing.
         d.   Posting: The applicant shall post and maintain for a period of
not less than ten (10) days prior to the hearing the notice thereof as
furnished by the village clerk. The said notice, showing the time, place and
purpose of said hearing, shall be posted on the property for which the special
use is sought as follows:
            (1)   On an unimproved lot: Not more than fifteen feet (15') from
the front lot line and not less than four feet (4') above and not more than six
feet (6') above the ground and placed in such a manner as to be unobscured from
the street.
            (2)   On an improved lot: On the front entrance door of the
improvement thereon, or placed in a similar manner as for an unimproved lot.
(Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
         e.   Additional Notices: Supplemental or additional notices may be
distributed, published or posted as the planning and zoning commission may, by
rule, prescribe from time to time.
   D.   Hearing: Upon receipt, in proper form, of the application and statement
referred to above, the planning and zoning commission shall hold at least one
public hearing on the proposed special use. However, the planning and zoning
commission may continue the hearing from time to time without further notices
being published.
   E.   Planning And Zoning Commission Recommendation: No special use permit
shall be recommended by the planning and zoning commission unless there is a
concurring vote of a majority of all members present with a minimum of four (4)
concurring votes required, based on findings of fact that: (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-
1969; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
      1.   The establishment, maintenance, or operation of the special use will
not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, morals, comfort,
or general welfare.
      2.   The special use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of
other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already permitted,
nor substantially diminish and impair property values within the neighborhood.
      3.   The establishment of the special use will not impede the normal and
orderly development and improvement of the surrounding property for uses
permitted in the district.
      4.   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage, or necessary facilities
have been or will be provided.
      5.   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress and
egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets.
(Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
      6.   The special use shall, in all other respects, conform to the
applicable regulations of the district in which it is located, except as such
regulations, in each instance, be modified by the president and board of
trustees pursuant to the recommendations of the planning and zoning commission.
      7.   The planning and zoning commission may recommend that there be, in
part of the area of a planned development and for the duration of such
development, specified uses not permitted by the use regulations of the
district in which said development is located; provided, that the planning and
zoning commission shall find that: (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969; amd. Ord. 2014-48,
10-27-2014)
         a.   The uses permitted by such exceptions are necessary or desirable
and are appropriate with respect to the primary purpose of the development;
         b.   The uses permitted by such exception are not of such a nature or
so located as to exercise a detrimental influence on the surrounding
neighborhood;
         c.   Not more than twenty percent (20%) of the ground area or of the
gross floor area of such development shall be devoted to the uses permitted by
said exception;
         d.   In an industrial planned development, such additional uses
allowed by exception shall conform with the performance standards of the
district in which the development is located as set forth in section
11-9-7 of this title; and
         e.   That the use exceptions so allowed are reflected by the
appropriate zoning district symbols and so recorded on the zoning district map.
(Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
      8.   The planning and zoning commission may recommend that there be in a
planned development exceptions to the bulk regulations set forth in the
district regulations applicable to the district in which the planned
development is located; provided, that the planning and zoning commission shall
find: (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
         a.   That such exception shall be solely for the purpose of promoting
a unified site plan no less beneficial to the residents or occupants of such
development as well as the neighboring property than would be obtained by the
bulk regulations of this title for buildings developed on separate lots;
         b.   That the overall floor area ratio, when applicable, would not
exceed, by more than fifteen percent (15%), the floor area ratio regulation of
this title for the district in which it is located; (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
         c.   That in the part of the planned development containing only
residential uses, the minimum lot area per dwelling unit may be less than
required by district regulations applicable to the district in which the
planned development is located, provided there is contained within the planned
development permanent open areas having sufficient area to maintain at least
the required lot area per dwelling for the district where it is located, when
related to the total area within the planned development, exclusive of areas in
rights of way of thoroughfares, streets and alleys. Such open areas shall be
perpetuated by properly recorded covenants extending over the life of the
planned development as common area for use only by the residents of the planned
development or dedicated to the village for park, playground or other open
public uses; and (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969; amd. 2012 Code)
         d.   That in part of a planned development devoted to residential
uses, the planning and zoning commission may recommend and the president and
board of trustees may approve access to: a dwelling by a driveway or pedestrian
walk easement; off street parking facilities for such dwelling when located not
more than one hundred eighty feet (180') from the dwelling served; and spacing
between buildings of lesser widths or depths than required by district
regulations for the district in which the planned development is located;
provided: (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
            (1)   That protective covenants are recorded which perpetuate,
during the period of the special use, access easements and off street parking
spaces for use by the residents of the dwellings served;
            (2)   The spacing between buildings shall be consistent with the
application of recognized site planning principles for securing a unified
development and due consideration is given to the openness normally afforded by
intervening streets and alleys. Spacing between principal buildings within a
part of a planned development where subsequent transfer of ownership is
contemplated shall be equivalent to such spacing as would be required between
buildings by district regulations for the district in which it is located; and
            (3)   The yards along the periphery of the development shall be not
less in width or depth than required for permitted uses in the district
regulations applicable to the district in which the planned development is
located.
   F.   President And Board Of Trustees Decision:
      1.   Prior to the granting of any special use, the president and board of
trustees shall stipulate conditions and restrictions upon the establishment,
location, construction, maintenance, and operation of the special use as deemed
necessary for the protection of the public interest and to secure compliance
with the standards and requirements specified in this chapter. In all cases in
which special uses are granted, the president and board of trustees shall
require such evidence and guarantees as it may deem necessary as proof that the
conditions stipulated in connection therewith are being and will be complied
with. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
      2.   The president and board of trustees may grant or deny any
application for a special use permit after receiving the recommendations of the
planning and zoning commission, including the stipulations of additional
conditions and guarantees, when they are deemed necessary for the protection of
the public interest. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
      3.   No application for a special use which has been denied wholly or in
part by the president and board of trustees shall be resubmitted for a period
of six (6) months from the date of said order of denial. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-
1969)
      4.   In any case, where a special use permit has been granted and a
building permit has not been obtained within eighteen (18) months after the
date of granting thereof, then, without further action by the planning and
zoning commission and the president and board of trustees, the special use
permit approval shall automatically be terminated and canceled and null and
void. In the event that an occupancy certificate is not issued within five (5)
years after the special use permit has been granted, the special use permit
shall automatically terminate. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-
27-2014)
11-3-5: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Initiation Of Amendment: Amendments to this title may be proposed by
the president and board of trustees, the planning and zoning commission, any
property owner or any interested person or organization.
   B.   Application For Amendment: An application for an amendment shall be
filed with the village clerk on a form prescribed by the president and board of
trustees. The application shall be accompanied by such plans or data, or both,
as specified by the planning and zoning commission, and shall include a
statement in writing by the applicant and adequate evidence showing that the
proposed amendment will conform to the standards set forth herein for
amendments. Copies of such application shall be forwarded by the board of
trustees to the planning and zoning commission with the request to hold a
public hearing. (Ord. 77-62, 12-28-1977; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
   C.   Notices: The applicant shall give notices of the public hearing as
follows: (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
      1.   Persons Required To Be Notified: To the persons to whom the current
real estate tax bills are sent, if any, as shown on the record of the local
real estate tax assessor, of all lots lying within two hundred fifty feet
(250') of a property line of the lot for which the application has been filed.
(Ord. 96-40, 9-9-1996)
      2.   Contents: All notices shall be in writing and shall give the time,
place and purpose of such hearing and shall be mailed not more than thirty (30)
days nor less than fifteen (15) days in advance of such hearing. The notice
shall be sent by certified mail, properly addressed as shown on the tax
assessor's rolls and with sufficient postage affixed thereon, with return
receipt requested. The applicant shall file a sworn affidavit with copies of
the notices with the village clerk, showing the names and addresses of all
notices the applicant has sent. Said affidavit shall be conclusive presumption
of giving of said notices.
      3.   Publication: The village clerk shall cause a notice of time, place,
and purpose of such hearing to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the village not more than thirty (30) days nor less than
fifteen (15) days in advance of such hearing.
      4.   Posting: The applicant shall post and maintain, for a period of not
less than ten (10) days prior to the hearing, the notice thereof as furnished
by the village clerk. The said notice, showing the time, place and purpose of
said hearing, shall be posted on the property for which the amendment is sought
as follows: (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
         a.   On an unimproved lot: Not more than fifteen feet (15') from the
front lot line and not less than four feet (4') above and not more than six
feet (6') above the ground and placed in such a manner as to be unobscured from
the street. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969; amd. 2012 Code)
         b.   On an improved lot: On the front entrance door of the improvement
thereon, or placed in a similar manner as for an unimproved lot. (Ord. 69-12,
4-23-1969)
      5.   Additional Notices: Supplemental or additional notices may be
distributed, published or posted as the planning and zoning commission may, by
rule, prescribe from time to time.
   D.   Hearing: Upon receipt, in proper form, of the application and statement
referred to above, the planning and zoning commission shall hold at least one
public hearing on the proposed amendment. However, the planning and zoning
commission may continue the hearing from time to time without further notices
being published. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
   E.   Findings Of Fact And Recommendations Of Planning And Zoning Commission:
      1.   A basic function of the planning and zoning commission is to advise
the president and board of trustees concerning matters relating to this title.
It is imperative that land development and growth of the village be carried on
according to an organized and well planned scheme, calculated and specifically
designed to further the best interests of the village. Such interests shall be
as manifested from time to time by the president and board of trustees. (Ord.
77-62, 12-28-1977; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
      2.   Within forty five (45) days after the close of the hearing on a
proposed amendment, the planning and zoning commission shall make written
findings of fact and shall submit same, together with its recommendations, to
the president and board of trustees. Where the purpose and effect of the
proposed amendment is to change the zoning classification of particular
property, the planning and zoning commission shall make findings based upon the
evidence presented to it in each specific case with respect to the following
matters: (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
         a.   Existing uses of property within the general area of the property
in question;
         b.   The zoning classification of property within the general area of
the property in question;
         c.   The suitability of the property in question to the uses permitted
under the existing zoning classification; and
         d.   The trend of development, if any, in the general area of the
property in question, including changes, if any, which have taken place since
the day the property in question was placed in its present zoning
classification. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
   F.   Planning And Zoning Commission Recommendations:
      1.   The planning and zoning commission shall not recommend the adoption
of a proposed amendment until after it finds that the adoption of such
amendment is in the public interest and not solely for the interest of the
applicant. The planning and zoning commission may recommend the adoption of an
amendment changing the zoning classification of the property in question to any
other zoning classification. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-
2014)
      2.   A concurring vote of a majority of those members present at the
meeting, with a minimum of four (4) concurring votes, shall be required to
recommend granting or denying an application for an amendment.
      3.   Report to the village board shall contain the number present and
names of those voting for or against the motion. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
   G.   President And Board Of Trustees Decision:
      1.   The president and board of trustees, upon receiving the
recommendations of the planning and zoning commission, may grant or deny any
proposed amendment in accordance with applicable Illinois statutes, or may
refer it back to the planning and zoning commission for further consideration.
(Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
      2.   If an application for a proposed amendment is not acted upon finally
by the president and board of trustees within six (6) months of the date upon
which such application is received by the president and board of trustees, it
shall be deemed to have been denied. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
11-3-6: AUTHORIZED VARIATIONS:
   A.   Authority: The planning and zoning commission shall report findings and
recommendations to the president and board of trustees regarding authorized
variations of the provisions of this title in harmony with its general purpose
and intent, and shall recommend approval of them only in the specific instances
where a concurring vote of a majority of all members present, with a minimum of
four (4) concurring votes required, determines that there are practical
difficulties or particular hardship in the way of carrying out the strict
letter of the regulations of this title.
   B.   Initiation: Any person, firm, or corporation owning or having an
interest in a lot or the board of trustees may apply for a variation.
   C.   Processing Application:
      1.   Filing Application; Required Information: An application for a
variation shall be filed with the village clerk on a form prescribed by the
president and board of trustees. The application shall be accompanied by such
plans or data, or both, as specified by the planning and zoning commission, and
shall include a statement in writing by the applicant and adequate evidence
showing that the proposed variation will conform to the standards set forth
herein for variations. Copies of such application shall be forwarded by the
village clerk to the planning and zoning commission with the request to hold a
public hearing.
      2.   Notices: The applicant shall give notices of the public hearing as
follows:
         a.   Persons Required To Be Notified: To the persons to whom the
current real estate tax bills are sent, if any, as shown on the record of the
local real estate tax assessor, of all lots lying within two hundred fifty feet
(250') of the property lines of the lot for which the variation is sought.
         b.   Contents: All notices shall be in writing and shall give the
time, place, and purpose of such hearing and shall be mailed not more than
thirty (30) days nor less than fifteen (15) days in advance of such hearing.
The notice shall be sent by certified mail, properly addressed as shown on the
tax assessor's rolls and with sufficient postage affixed thereon, with return
receipt requested. The applicant shall file a sworn affidavit with copies of
the notices with the village clerk, showing the names and addresses of all
notices the applicant has sent. Said affidavit shall be conclusive presumption
of giving of said notices.
         c.   Publication: The village clerk shall cause a notice of time,
place, and purpose of such hearing to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the village not more than thirty (30) days nor less than
fifteen (15) days in advance of such hearing.
         d.   Posting: The applicant shall post and maintain, for a period of
not less than ten (10) days prior to the hearing, the notice thereof as
furnished by the village clerk. The said notice, showing the time, place and
purpose of said hearing, shall be posted on the property for which the
variation is sought as follows:
            (1)   On an unimproved lot: Not more than fifteen feet (15') from
the front lot line and not less than four feet (4') above and not more than six
feet (6') above the ground and placed in such a manner as to be unobscured from
the street.
            (2)   On an improved lot: On the front entrance door of the
improvement thereon, or placed in a similar manner as for an unimproved lot.
         e.   Additional Notices: Supplemental or additional notices may be
distributed, published or posted as the planning and zoning commission may, by
rule, prescribe from time to time.
   D.   Hearing: Upon receipt, in proper form, of the application and statement
referred to above, the planning and zoning commission shall hold at least one
public hearing on the proposed variation. However, the planning and zoning
commission may continue the hearing from time to time without further notices
being published.
   E.   Findings Of Fact And Recommendations Of Planning And Zoning Commission:
      1.   Within forty five (45) days after the close of the hearing on a
proposed variation, the planning and zoning commission shall make written
findings based upon the evidence presented to it in each specific case with
respect to standards identified in subsection E2 of this section and shall
submit same, together with its recommendations, to the president and board of
trustees.
      2.   The planning and zoning commission shall not recommend approval of a
variation from the provisions of this title, as authorized in this section,
unless it shall find, by a concurring vote of a majority of all members
present, with a minimum of four (4) concurring votes required, that:
         a.   The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations in
that zoning district;
         b.   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances; and
         c.   The variation, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of the locality.
      3.   For the purpose of supplementing the above standards, the planning
and zoning commission, in making its findings and recommendations whenever
there are practical difficulties or particular hardship, shall also take into
consideration the extent to which the following facts, favorable to the
applicant, have been established by the evidence that:
         a.   The particular physical surroundings, shape, or topographical
conditions of the specific property involved would bring a particular hardship
upon the owner as distinguished from a mere inconvenience if the regulations
were strictly enforced;
         b.   The conditions upon which the petition for variation is based
would not be applicable generally to other property within the same zoning
classification;
         c.   The purpose of the variation is not based exclusively upon a
desire to make more money out of the property;
         d.   The alleged difficulty or hardship has not been created by any
person presently having an interest in the property;
         e.   The granting of the variation will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the
neighborhood in which the property is located; or
         f.   The proposed variation will not impair an adequate supply of
light and air to adjacent property, or substantially increase the danger of
fire, or otherwise endanger the public safety, or substantially diminish or
impair property values within the neighborhood.
      4.   The planning and zoning commission may place such conditions and
restrictions upon any recommendations made thereby regarding the premises
benefited by a variation as may be necessary to comply with the standards set
forth in this section to reduce or minimize the injurious effect of such
variation upon other property in the neighborhood, and to implement the general
purpose and intent of this title.
   F.   President And Board Of Trustees Action:
      1.   The president and board of trustees, upon receiving the
recommendations of the planning and zoning commission, may grant or deny any
proposed variation in accordance with applicable Illinois statutes, or may
refer it back to the planning and zoning commission for further consideration.
      2.   If an application for a proposed variation is not acted upon finally
by the president and board of trustees within six (6) months of the date upon
which such application is received by the president and board of trustees, it
shall be deemed to have been denied.
   G.   Types Of Authorized Variations: Variations from the regulations of this
title may be heard and reported upon by the planning and zoning commission to
the president and board of trustees and considered and granted by the president
and board of trustees only in accordance with the standards set forth in this
section, and only in the following instances and no others:
      1.   Building Setback, Minimum Yards, Lot Coverage, Lot Area, And
Building Height:
         a.   To permit yards, spacing between buildings, and other required
open spaces to have less width or depth than required by the district
regulations, but not the elimination of required yards, spacing between
buildings, and other required open spaces;
         b.   To permit coverage of lots and rear yards to be greater than the
maximum permitted by this title; provided, that existing water drainage
patterns are not altered;
         c.   To permit the establishment of a lot with an area and/or width of
less than the minimum required area and/or width permitted by this title for
such lot;
         d.   To permit a building height greater than the maximum permitted
building height permitted by this title;
      2.   Lot Not Of Record: To permit the use of a lot not of record on the
effective date hereof for a use otherwise prohibited solely because of the
insufficient area of the lot;
      3.   Parking Lot Illumination: To permit parking lots to be illuminated
later than thirty (30) minutes after close of business;
      4.   Number Of Parking Spaces: To reduce the required number of parking
spaces to the extent of not more than twenty percent (20%) of the required
number;
      5.   Distance Of Use From Parking Space: To increase by not more than
twenty five percent (25%) the maximum distance that required parking spaces are
permitted to be located from the use served;
      6.   Parking Spaces Qualifying For Two Or More Uses: To permit the same
off street parking spaces to qualify as required spaces for two (2) or more
uses; provided, that the maximum use of such facility by each user does not
take place during the same hours or on the same days of the week; and
      7.   Floor Area Ratio: To allow any permitted nonresidential use in a
residence district to exceed the floor area ratio imposed by the applicable
regulations. (Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
11-3-7: APPEALS:
   A.   Authority: The planning and zoning commission shall hear and report
findings and recommendations to the village president and board of trustees on
all appeals from an administrative order, requirement, or determination made by
the building and zoning official under this title.
   B.   Initiation: An appeal may be taken to the planning and zoning
commission by any person, firm, or corporation, or by any office, department,
board, bureau, or commission, aggrieved by an administrative order,
requirement, decision, or determination under this title by the building and
zoning official.
   C.   Processing: An application for an appeal shall be filed with the
village clerk on a form prescribed by the president and board of trustees. The
application shall be accompanied by such plans or data, or both, as are
necessary to evidence that the appeal is warranted, and shall include a
statement in writing by the applicant regarding the same. Copies of such
application shall be forwarded by the village clerk to the planning and zoning
commission to hear and report findings and recommendations regarding such
appeal to the president and board of trustees.
   D.   Hearing On Application: Upon receipt in proper form of the application,
information and statement referred to in this section, the planning and zoning
commission shall hold at least one hearing on the appeal, which may be
continued to a subsequent date or dates.
   E.   Findings Of Fact And Recommendations; Decision; Judicial Review:
      1.   Within forty five (45) days after the close of the hearing on an
appeal, the planning and zoning commission shall make written findings
regarding such appeal based upon the evidence presented to it in each specific
case and shall submit same, together with its recommendations, to the president
and board of trustees.
      2.   A concurring vote of a majority of those members of the planning and
zoning commission present at the meeting at which an appeal is heard shall be
required to recommend granting or denying an appeal by the president and board
of trustees; provided, however, not less than four (4) concurring votes shall
be required for such recommendation.
      3.   All decisions of the president and board of trustees on appeals from
an administrative order, requirement, decision, or determination of the
building and zoning official shall, in all instances, be final administrative
determinations and shall be subject to judicial review in accordance with
applicable Illinois statutes. (Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
11-3-8: FEES:
An application for a variation, amendment, special use or other zoning
permission or relief shall be filed and accompanied by a fee, payable to the
village, for such amount as established by the village board of trustees 1 .
(2012 Code; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-1-2-3 of this code.
11-3-9: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTY:
   A.   Enforcement Official: The building and zoning official is hereby
designated and authorized to enforce this title. (Ord. 2008-14, 3-24-2008; amd.
Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
   B.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects, or refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of, any of
the provisions of this title shall, upon conviction, be punishable as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. 2008-14, 3-24-2008; amd. 2012 Code;
Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
CHAPTER 4
SITE DEVELOPMENT AND PLAN REVIEW
SECTION:
11-4-1: Findings
11-4-2: Purpose
11-4-3: Applicability And Compliance
11-4-4: Standards Of Development
11-4-4-1: Buildings And Building Additions In Estate, Single-Family And General
Residence Districts
11-4-5: Review Procedures
11-4-6: Required Submittals
11-4-1: FINDINGS:
The village board of trustees hereby finds that buildings, landscaping, fences
and other structures, streets, curbs, sidewalks, and street lighting which
exist within the context of an established neighborhood are elements that
contribute to and preserve the character of the community, constitute the
unique aspects that distinguish neighborhoods from each other, provide for a
diversity of housing styles and sizes at various price points, and enhance and
maintain property values. The village board of trustees further finds that
compatibility of a building's architectural style, size, mass, roofline,
height, building materials, color, and grading with its surrounding
neighborhood contribute to the maintenance of property values and stability
within its residential districts. (Ord. 2007-24, 7-9-2007)
11-4-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to:
   A.   Promote the public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general
welfare of the village.
   B.   Enhance the aesthetic qualities and economic values within areas
developed for business and industrial purposes in the village.
   C.   Establish a reasonable transition between business, industrial, and
residential land uses in the village.
   D.   Ensure the safe and efficient movement of vehicular traffic and
pedestrians.
   E.   Protect and preserve environmental resources.
   F.   Implement the village's adopted comprehensive land use plan, as may be
amended from time to time. (Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993)
11-4-3: APPLICABILITY AND COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Required Compliance: All applicants for a rezoning, planned
development, or special use permit for property located within the following
districts and those districts which may hereafter be created, as well as all
applicants for the following types of building permits for property located
within the following zoning districts and those districts which may hereafter
be created shall comply with the standards for development set forth in this
chapter: a new building; building addition; or modification to a nonresidential
building that has maintained a vacancy of greater than fifty percent (50%) of
that building's gross floor area for a period of at least six (6) months:
ER-1 Estate residence district.
R-1 Single-family residence district.
R-2 Single-family residence district.
R-2A Single-family residence district.
R-2B Single-family residence district.
R-2C Single-family residence district.
R-3 General residence district.
R-4 Multiple-family dwelling residence district.
R-5 Multiple-family dwelling high rise district.
B-1 Neighborhood business district.
B-2 Community business district.
B-3 General service business district.
B-4 Automotive Service Business District.
R-R Hotel-Motel Resort and Recreational District.
O-D Office District.
Business Park Planned Unit Development District of 75 to 250 acres.
Planned Unit Development District of 250 acres or more.
OTP Old Town Preservation District. (Ord. 2008-14, 3-24-2008; amd. 2012 Code;
Ord. 2014-46, 10-27-2014)
   B.   Minor Modifications: This chapter shall not, however, apply to minor
interior or exterior modifications which do not affect the type or intensity of
use, or substantially alter the facade of the building.
   C.   Old Town: Standards of development which are specific to the Old Town
District are presented in chapter 11 of this title. In all instances, the
provisions of chapter 11 of this title shall supersede those of this chapter.
(Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993)
   D.   Single-Family Residence Buildings:
      1.   All new buildings or building additions in the Estate, Single-
Family, and General Residence Districts identified in subsection A of this
section shall be compatible with the existing buildings in the surrounding
neighborhood in which the new building or building addition is proposed to be
located. The compatibility of new buildings or building additions with the
surrounding neighborhood shall be determined on the basis of architectural
style, size, mass, height, building materials, roofline, color, and grading,
and as more fully identified herein. Should the building and zoning official
make a determination that a proposed building or addition in any Single-Family
Residence District is not compatible with the surrounding neighborhood, the
owner of the subject property shall be required to comply with the requirements
of this chapter pursuant to a review by the Planning and Zoning Commission and
approval by the Village Board. (Ord. 2007-24, 7-9-2007; amd. 2012 Code; Ord.
2014-48, 10-27-2014)
      2.   Section
11-4-4-1 of this chapter establishes the standards to be used in evaluating
compatibility and in recommending modifications to increase the level of
compatibility of a proposed building or building addition with the character of
the surrounding neighborhood in which the building or building addition is
proposed to be located. The Village Board may amend these standards from time
to time to reflect changes in development trends or standards as and when
necessary.
      3.   For purposes of this subsection, the term "surrounding neighborhood"
is defined as follows:
         a.   The full block on which the subject property is located,
including both sides of the street.
         b.   The block face in both directions, if the subject property is a
corner lot.
         c.   The adjoining block face to the rear of the subject property.
         d.   The general character of the larger neighborhood in which the
subject property is located, two (2) blocks in each direction from the subject
property. (Ord. 2007-24, 7-9-2007)
11-4-4: STANDARDS OF DEVELOPMENT:
All site development associated with permitted and special uses in the
districts specified under subsection 11-4-3A of this chapter shall comply with
the following:
   A.   Setback, Bulk And Sign Regulations: Principal and accessory buildings
and structures shall comply with yard and setback requirements, floor area and
height limitations, and sign regulations applicable to the district in which
the use is located, or as may otherwise be modified as part of a special use
permit or planned development.
   B.   Vehicular Access:
      1.   Number: The number of points of vehicular ingress and egress to
individual lots shall be limited to maximize the safety and operational
efficiency of Bloomingdale's arterial streets and collector roadways. (Ord. 93-
42, 8-9-1993)
      2.   Location, Number And Design: The location, number and design of
access drives shall be reviewed by the Village Engineer and coordinated with
adjacent uses and properties to provide for safe and efficient movement of
vehicles. Where possible, cross easements between properties shall be provided
to minimize the number of drives required on adjacent public streets. (Ord. 93-
42, 8-9-1993; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
      3.   Review By Other Agencies: Vehicular access to a site is subject to
review by the Bloomingdale fire protection district and by state and county
highway authorities where appropriate.
   C.   Pedestrian Access:
      1.   Streets/Drives: Sidewalks, not less than five feet (5') wide, shall
be provided along all streets and access drives to provide safe pedestrian
access to, through and from multiple- family R-4 and R-5 residence districts,
and the nonresidential districts identified in subsection 11-4-3A of this
chapter.
      2.   Paths/Linkages: Pedestrian linkages in the form of sidewalks or
paths shall also be provided where required to implement linkages depicted on
the comprehensive land use plan, as may be amended from time to time.
      3.   Parking: Where parking is proposed to be located perpendicular to
sidewalks, walks shall be increased to a minimum of seven feet (7') in width.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Loading:
      1.   Compliance With Village Regulations: Parking and loading spaces and
drive aisles shall be provided according to standards and specifications
included in chapter 13 of this title.
      2.   Truck Parking:
         a.   Trucks which are accessory to the conduct of a permitted use may
be parked on an individual lot, provided such vehicles do not exceed one and
one-half (11/2) tons' capacity. Delivery vehicles may, however, exceed this
capacity when deliveries are made at the rear of the building.
         b.   The parking of trucks bearing a sign or signs shall be according
to regulations set forth in subsection 11-14-8M of this title.
      3.   Accessibility For Persons With Disabilities: The petitioner shall
demonstrate compliance with the Illinois accessibility code and Americans with
disabilities act, as may be amended from time to time.
   E.   Architecture:
      1.   Design:
         a.   Buildings constructed in the R-4 and R-5 districts and in the
nonresidential districts referenced in subsection 11-4-3A of this chapter shall
be designed to blend with the site and surrounding development.
         b.   The use of brightly colored materials or surfaces on multiple-
family structures or nonresidential buildings which attract attention to the
premises in the same manner as a sign shall be prohibited.
         c.   All four (4) facades of nonresidential structures constructed on
outlots in a shopping center shall be well articulated and designed to reflect
the fact that they will be visible to the general public.
         d.   The use of exposed downspouts on nonresidential structures shall
be prohibited, unless they can be designed into the column or support structure
of a canopy or otherwise be "hidden" by the design of the building. (Ord. 93-
42, 8-9-1993)
      2.   Materials:
         a.   Consistent with existing development in the village, multiple-
family residential buildings and nonresidential buildings shall be constructed
primarily of masonry materials. Masonry materials shall consist of clay brick
and natural stone. In business park districts, precast concrete panels and
compressed masonry units (CMUs) will be permitted. The building commissioner
may approve the use of cultured stone products in limited applications as an
exterior accent. (Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993; amd. Ord. 2012-27, 6-11-2012)
         b.   The use of vinyl, aluminum or other metal siding shall be
prohibited in the R-4 and R-5 districts and nonresidential districts referenced
in subsection 11-4-3A of this chapter.
         c.   All exposed chimney chases shall be clad with brick.
         d.   Cedar or other approved wood siding may be used as an accent,
trim, and as siding on the second stories of multiple- family residential
structures.
         e.   The use of pine on a residential or nonresidential structure for
fascia boards or other trim shall be prohibited.
      3.   Antimonotony: In order to avoid monotonous streetscapes in the R-
3 and R-4 districts that could occur with multi-family development, a written
antimonotony standard shall be prepared that includes, but is not limited to,
the following:
         a.   Exterior siding and trim shall vary in color to avoid monotonous
streetscapes. Changes in color styling between buildings shall be subtle rather
than provide sharp or harsh contrast.
         b.   Buildings with identical elevations shall not be sited directly
adjacent to or opposite from one another unless otherwise approved by the
village board. (Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993)
      4.   Accent Lighting: Low level accent lighting on the building facades
shall be permitted, provided the accent lighting does not attract attention to
the premises in the same manner as a sign (see definition of "sign" in section
11-14-3 of this title). Foot-candle intensities associated with proposed accent
lighting shall be included in the photometric plan submitted for planning and
zoning commission and village board review (see subsection H of this section).
(Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
   F.   Mechanical Equipment:
      1.   All roof mounted mechanical equipment including, but not limited to,
heating, ventilating and air conditioning units (HVAC) shall be fully screened
on all sides of the building. (Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993)
      2.   Screening shall be accomplished by the roof structure or parapet
walls unless otherwise recommended by the planning and zoning commission and
approved by the village board. (Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-
2014)
      3.   Screening shall be designed to blend with and complement the
architecture of the building.
      4.   The height of the parapet walls, roof structure, or other approved
method of screening shall equal the height of the tallest rooftop unit
installed on the building.
   G.   Landscaping:
      1.   Landscape Plan:
         a.   A landscape plan (preferably prepared by a licensed landscape
architect) shall be submitted with all applications for site plan review, and
shall be subject to review and recommendation of approval by the village.
         b.   All areas of the site which are not paved shall be landscaped
with trees, shrubs, ground cover and flowers to:
            (1)   Slow surface water runoff.
            (2)   Restrict blowing trash and litter.
            (3)   Deter improper access or use of the site by the public.
            (4)   Improve the visual quality of the site.
         c.   The landscape plan shall include identification of species, size
and location of plant materials and all other landscape treatments including,
but not limited to:
            (1)   Berms.
            (2)   Fences.
            (3)   Ground covers.
            (4)   Ornamental or accent lighting.
            (5)   Paving materials.
            (6)   Areas proposed to be planted with grass seed or sod.
         d.   Trees and shrubs shall be keyed into a plant list which gives
quantities, sizes, botanical names and specifics as to the form of the plants.
         e.   Upon installation, trees shall not be less than the following
sizes:
            (1)   Shade trees: Three inch (3") caliper, as measured twelve
inches (12") above grade.
            (2)   Evergreen: Six feet (6') tall.
            (3)   Ornamental: Six feet (6') tall if multistem, and two and one-
half inches (21/2") in caliper if single stem.
         f.   Final landscape plans shall be required when a petitioner is
seeking final plan approval as part of a rezoning, planned development, special
use or variation. The plan shall be superimposed on a grading plan so that the
relationship between proposed plantings and grades can be evaluated.
      2.   Quality Control:
         a.   The village reserves the right of inspection and rejection upon
delivery at the site, or during the progress of the landscape work, for size
and condition of balls or roots, diseases, insects and latent defects or
injuries. Rejected plants shall be removed immediately from the site.
         b.   All plant materials shall be maintained per standard nursery
practice and kept alive and in good condition or replaced. Trees and shrubs
shall be replaced as necessary to maintain landscaping in accordance with
approved plans. Trees and/or shrubs used to replace dead, diseased, or damaged
trees and/or shrubs shall be equal to or greater than sizes originally
specified on the approved landscape plan.
      3.   Screening: Where a multiple-family R-4 or R-5 use or a
nonresidential district or use abuts or is across the street from a low or
medium density residential district or use (R-1, R-2, or R-3 district), or an
institutional district or use, screening shall be provided in accordance with
the following:
         a.   A landscaped berm, fence, wall, or combination thereof shall be
installed to provide year round screening. Placement of the landscape screen
shall not impair the safety of pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
         b.   Where off street parking is visible from a public right of way,
screening shall be at least five feet (5') tall, as measured from the curb of
the adjacent street, upon installation.
         c.   Where off street parking or loading abuts a residential or
institutional use or district, screening shall be not less than five feet (5')
tall, upon installation.
         d.   Plant materials used for screening shall comply with minimum
sizes set forth in subsection G1e of this section.
         e.   Screening shall be incorporated into the landscape plan prepared
for the project and shall require review and recommendation of approval by the
village. (Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993)
      4.   Perimeter Yards: Minimum requirements for perimeter yards and
landscape plantings shall, unless otherwise recommended by the planning and
zoning commission and village board, be as follows: (Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993; amd.
Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
         a.   Front Yard: Perimeter landscaping shall include the first thirty
feet (30') of a required front yard. Parking and drive aisles shall not be
permitted in this minimum thirty feet (30'). This shall not, however, apply to
drives which are perpendicular to the street and provide access to the site.
         b.   Interior Side And Rear Yards:
            (1)   A minimum ten foot (10') wide perimeter yard shall be
provided around the side and rear property lines of a property where a
nonresidential use or district abuts another nonresidential use or district.
            (2)   Where a nonresidential use or district abuts a residential or
institutional use or district, a minimum twenty foot (20') wide perimeter yard
shall be provided around the side and rear property lines. Landscape screening
shall be required according to subsection G3 of this section.
         c.   Landscape Requirements: In those instances where landscape
screening is not required according to subsection G3 of this section, shade,
evergreen and/or ornamental trees shall be installed in perimeter yards, at a
ratio of not less than one tree for every thirty (30) linear feet of front,
side and rear yards. Trees may be informally clustered or grouped, rather than
equally spaced. (Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993)
      5.   Tree Mitigation: Tree mitigation may be required for new
construction in districts identified in subsection 11-4-3A of this chapter. The
removal of existing trees greater than six inches (6") in caliper, as measured
twelve inches (12") above grade, shall not occur in these districts unless
approved by the village board. In such instances, where the village board
determines, based upon recommendation by the planning and zoning commission,
that development cannot take place without the removal of trees six inches (6")
or greater in caliper, the removal of existing trees shall be mitigated as
follows:
         a.   Trees shall be replaced according to a tree replacement plan that
is subject to review by the planning and zoning commission and approval by the
village. (Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
         b.   Replacement trees shall consist of high quality hardwood trees
not less than three inches (3") in caliper.
         c.   Unless otherwise approved by the village, the cumulative caliper
of replacement trees shall equal the cumulative caliper of trees removed for
development. (Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993)
   H.   Lighting: Plans for parking lot, security, landscape, walkway, accent,
and building mounted lighting shall comply with the provisions of chapter 20,
"Exterior Lighting", of this title. (Ord. 2013-19, 4-22-2013)
   I.   Utility Meters/Transformers:
      1.   Wall mounted utility meters and ground supported transformers shall
be painted to match the color of the building.
      2.   If visible to the public, meters and transformers shall be screened
by landscaping which, upon installation, shall equal the height of the tallest
meter or transformer.
   J.   Trash Enclosure:
      1.   Trash receptacles shall be enclosed by masonry walls, designed to
match the building.
      2.   Enclosures shall be constructed to be equal or taller than the
tallest bin proposed for use.
      3.   Trash enclosures shall be provided with:
         a.   Gates to contain trash.
         b.   A concrete pad and approach apron to bear the weight of trash
bins and refuse vehicles, respectively.
   K.   Outdoor Storage:
      1.   All business, services, storage, merchandise display and processing
shall be conducted entirely within an enclosed building, with the exception of:
         a.   Off street parking and loading areas.
         b.   Open sales lots.
         c.   Outdoor sales of products for automobile service stations,
provided they are related to servicing motor vehicles.
         d.   Display of seasonal accessory products, sidewalk sales, and
promotional programs. See standards and procedures set forth in section
11-5-5 of this title, regulations addressing temporary uses.
      2.   All outdoor storage areas for accessory uses and products shall be
enclosed by a fence, wall or plant materials adequate to conceal such
facilities from adjacent properties and public rights of way. (Ord. 93-42, 8-9-
1993)
11-4-4-1: BUILDINGS AND BUILDING ADDITIONS IN ESTATE, SINGLE- FAMILY AND
GENERAL RESIDENCE DISTRICTS:
The provisions of this section apply to the estate, single- family and general
residence districts.
   A.   Building Placement On The Lot: The placement of buildings on their lots
and, specifically, the proximity of the buildings to the adjacent rights of way
establishes the overall relationship of the built environment to the
streetscape. This pattern should be respected in the construction of new
buildings or additions thereto. Accordingly, the front building setback should
be no less than the mean front building setback of the buildings on the entire
block face on which the proposed building or addition is to be located.
   B.   Roofing: Required roof pitch should be no less than four to twelve (4:
12), and all shingles should be of an architectural design grade.
   C.   Building Mass: Placement of a building under one large roof volume is
discouraged.
   D.   Hierarchy Of Massing: Emphasis should be placed on the building entry
as the prominent feature of the building, de-emphasizing the garage.
   E.   Roof Pitch: If a building uses a single roof style, such as a hip, then
the roof pitch should be common throughout. The roof pitch of a building
proposed to be constructed in an existing neighborhood should be compatible
with the predominant roof pitch of the existing buildings on the block face on
which the subject building is proposed to be located.
   F.   Overhangs: Roof overhangs/eaves should not be less than twelve inches
(12").
   G.   Building Facades: All facades should be equally treated as important
elevations by way of articulation throughout and there should be consistent use
of exterior building materials (e.g., if brick is used on the front facade of a
building, then it should also be used on the other facades of the building).
   H.   Window Finish And Detailing: All windows should have trim detailing.
   I.   Window Placement And Use: Random, irregular placement of windows should
be avoided. Large expanses of wall area without windows should be avoided.
   J.   Window Proportion: Window openings and windowpanes should be square or
of greater height than width and should be similarly proportioned throughout
the entire building.
   K.   Shutters: Where proposed, shutters should consist of wood or other
material to simulate wood, should be of louvered or paneled construction, and
each be exactly one-half (1/2) the width of the window sash to which they are
adjacent to simulate functional shutters.
   L.   Dormers: Dormers should either be part of a habitable space or a space
that can properly simulate a habitable space with respect to size, location,
and related elements of such simulation. Dormers should be enhanced with
windows and other architectural elements consistent with the rest of the
building and should have a symmetrical form. Dormers should be in scale with
the overall proportion of the building and are generally more appropriate for
more steeply pitched roofs, having a pitch equal to or greater than five to
twelve (5:12).
   M.   Antimonotony: Buildings should not create monotony due to extreme
similarities with adjacent buildings in the surrounding neighborhood.
   N.   Landscaping: Subject properties must comply with chapter 16 of this
title, the village tree preservation provisions. A landscaping plan shall be
submitted which shall provide for perimeter as well as foundation plantings.
Further, the area on the lot to be cleared should be no greater than the
footprint of the building, plus a ten foot (10') buffer area surrounding the
subject building's perimeter, in order to preserve as much existing vegetation
on the subject property as possible.
   O.   Overlapping Gables: Minimize the use of overlapping gables which are
typically appropriate only when a smaller gable is part of a balcony, porch, or
entrance or, in rare instances, when they are appropriate for the architectural
style of the building.
   P.   Scale: The scale of a new building, inclusive of any addition thereto,
should be compatible with the scale of existing buildings in the surrounding
neighborhood. Such design elements as porches, porticoes, bay windows, dormers,
and pergolas can increase compatibility of larger new buildings with smaller
existing buildings which may predominate the streetscape in certain
neighborhoods within the village.
   Q.   Materials: New buildings should use materials and textures compatible
to those of neighboring buildings in existing neighborhoods and appropriate to
the chosen architectural style of the new building to reinforce the
neighborhood's image. Stucco and EIFS type treatments are appropriate only in
accent areas and applications where stucco would be used. They should not
replicate other architectural details (such as sills, dentils, etc.).
   R.   Color: The color of all exterior building materials should be
compatible with the surrounding neighborhood. Color schemes that draw attention
to the building, such as very bright, neon type tints, should be avoided. A
color palette of all proposed building colors, including that for trim, shall
be submitted.
   S.   Ornamentation: Building ornamentation should draw from the surrounding
streetscape, but should not exactly mimic the facades of neighboring buildings.
It should be used with restraint and in consideration of the visual character
of the neighborhood.
   T.   Architectural Style: Architectural stylistic integrity is encouraged.
The style of architecture should be consistent throughout all facades of the
building. Further, additions should be of the same architectural style as the
existing building.
   U.   Chimney Materials: All chimneys located on exterior walls should be
sheathed in brick or stone.
   V.   HVAC Equipment: All exterior HVAC equipment should be ground mounted
and screened with landscaping or placed on the building's rooftop having a
surrounding roof structure that is at least as tall as the tallest piece of
HVAC equipment enclosed thereby. The HVAC equipment shall not be placed in any
yard fronting a public right of way.
   W.   Roof Penetrations: All rooftop penetrations, including plumbing
venting, attic vents, and chimney and fireplace flues, should be colored or
painted to match the roof color.
   X.   Porches: Where appropriate, porches are encouraged and should have a
depth of at least five feet (5') to make them functional spaces.
   Y.   Front Entrances: Entries should be ornamented with simple detailing
consistent with the building's architectural style.
   Z.   Garage Doors: Garage bays with individual doors no wider than nine feet
(9') are encouraged. Doublewide doors are discouraged.
   AA.   Architectural Interest: Incorporate bay windows or projecting rooms
(e.g., a breakfast nook) to enhance facade articulation and interest.
   BB.   Grading: Site grading should complement the existing site topography
and be consistent with the surrounding neighborhood streetscape, i.e., if
buildings in the surrounding neighborhood do not have walk out basements, the
subject property should not be regraded to provide a walk out basement.
Reliance upon retaining walls to accomplish necessary grading may indicate
inconsistency between proposed site grading and existing site topography.
   CC.   Building Additions: A proposed addition should be consistent with the
scale, massing and other architectural elements of the existing building.
Factors such as roofline, trim details, window type and placement and other
design elements that affect exterior appearance will ensure compatibility with
the building to which the addition will be made. (Ord. 2007-24, 7-9-2007)
11-4-5: REVIEW PROCEDURES:
New buildings or building additions in districts listed in subsection 11-4-3A
of this chapter shall be reviewed according to the following procedures: (Ord.
93-42, 8-9-1993)
   A.   Planning And Zoning Commission/Village Board Review Generally: Drawings
associated with an application for building permits for new construction,
building additions, rezonings, planned developments, or special use permits for
properties in multiple-family residential districts and nonresidential
districts referenced in subsection 11-4-3A of this chapter shall be reviewed by
the planning and zoning commission and approved by the village board. The
planning and zoning commission shall verify that proposed construction will
conform to standards of this chapter, as well as regulations of the zoning
district in which the proposed construction will occur. (Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993;
amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
   B.   Old Town District: Chapter 11 of this title sets forth review
procedures for properties in the old town district. Review by the planning and
zoning commission and village board shall be required for building permits
associated with new construction, building additions, rezoning, planned
developments and special use permits in the old town district. (Ord. 93-42, 8-
9-1993; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
   C.   Final Plan Versus Preliminary Plan:
      1.   The petitioner shall determine, in conjunction with the Village
Administrator or appointed designee, whether or not preliminary plan approval
or final plan approval should be requested. (Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993)
      2.   The level of detail submitted on drawings presented for Planning and
Zoning Commission and Village Board review shall be commensurate with the
petitioner's request. (Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
      3.   Final plans, however, shall be approved by the Village prior to the
issuance of a building permit. (Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993)
   D.   Distribution:
      1.   Plans shall be received not less than ten (10) working days prior to
the scheduled meeting before the Planning and Zoning Commission. (Ord. 93-42,
8-9-1993; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
      2.   Once all required plans and support documentation have been received
(see section
11-4-6 of this chapter), the Village Administrator or appointed designee shall
distribute plans and support documentation to the:
         a.   Village President.
         b.   Village Administrator. (Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993)
         c.   Village Engineer. (Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993; amd. 2012 Code; Ord.
2017-42, 11-13-2017)
         d.   Planning and Zoning Commissioners and Recording Secretary. (Ord.
93-42, 8-9-1993; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
         e.   Fire Protection District.
         f.   Village Planner. (Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993)
         g.   Building Commissioner. (Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993; amd. Ord. 2017-42,
11-13-2017)
         h.   Front counter.
   E.   Public Meeting/Hearing:
      1.   Unless a request involves a text or map amendment, variation,
planned development or special use, site plan review can be accommodated at a
public meeting. (Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993)
      2.   Public hearings for amendments, variations, planned developments or
special uses shall be in accordance with procedures set forth in chapter 3 of
this title. No deviation from the zoning requirements set forth herein may be
granted except in connection with approval by the Village Board of a variation
or a planned development pursuant to a special use permit following a public
hearing therefor and a recommendation by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
      3.   No matter shall be placed upon the Planning and Zoning Commission
agenda unless all required materials have been submitted in a timely fashion to
the Village at the time the matter is to be placed on the Planning and Zoning
Commission agenda. (Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
   F.   Reports:
      1.   Staff: The Village Planner and Village Engineer shall prepare
written reports evaluating the proposed project, which shall be forwarded to
the Planning and Zoning Commission the Friday before the scheduled appearance
of the petitioner. Other Village officials, including the Village Attorney,
Chief of Police, etc., may submit written reports if determined necessary for a
full review. (Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014;
Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
      2.   Fire Protection District: A written report shall be obtained from
the Village Fire Protection District that evaluates the project against
applicable codes, regulations, and life safety issues. No recommendation of
approval shall be forwarded to the Village Board until such time as the report
is presented to, and reviewed by, the Planning and Zoning Commission. (Ord. 93-
42, 8-9-1993; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
      3.   Other: The Village Planner, Village Engineer, or Planning and Zoning
Commission may, from time to time, request the preparation and submittal of
other reports from agencies or professional consultants, to facilitate review
and understanding of the effects a proposed project may have on the natural
environment or surrounding development. Examples of such documentation include,
but are not limited to, reports from: (Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993; amd. 2012 Code;
Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
         a.   Agencies such as the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Illinois
Department of Transportation, Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, etc.
         b.   Professional consultants such as real estate appraisers, traffic
engineers, environmental experts, planning and design consultants, etc. (Ord.
93-42, 8-9-1993; amd. 2012 Code)
   G.   Planning And Zoning Commission Review:
      1.   The commission may continue the review of plans and support
documentation from time to time. Multiple meetings may be required in order to
assure adequate time for:
         a.   The petitioner to present the project.
         b.   Commissioners to ask questions of the petitioner and staff.
         c.   Staff to present review comments.
         d.   Commissioners to deliberate on the proposed project and make
specific recommendations to the Village Board. (Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993)
      2.   The petitioner may be requested to modify and re-present plans,
drawings and other support documentation before a recommendation is forwarded
to the Village Board. No matter presented will be forwarded to the Village
Board for review until drawings and exhibits have been revised to reflect
changes made by the petitioner. Although simple matters may proceed after a
single review session by the Planning and Zoning Commission, most reviews
require at least two (2) meetings before the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   H.   Planning And Zoning Commission Findings Of Fact: The Planning and
Zoning Commission shall review the petition and shall, within forty five (45)
days after the close of the meeting, make its recommendations to the Village
Board in a written statement of findings of fact and recommendations. At a
minimum, the statement of findings of fact shall include: (Ord. 93-42, 8-9-
1993; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
      1.   A description of the request and proposed project.
      2.   Identification of requested exceptions from zoning, if any.
      3.   List of exhibits presented to the commission.
      4.   Items of particular interest or concern, if any.
      5.   Recommended conditions of approval, if any.
      6.   Names of those Commissioners voting for or against the project.
(Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993)
   I.   Village Board Review:
      1.   The Village Board will review the petition and Planning and Zoning
Commission findings of fact at a public meeting and either: (Ord. 93-42, 8-9-
1993; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
         a.   Approve the petition;
         b.   Approve the petition with conditions;
         c.   Deny the petition; or (Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993)
         d.   Send the petition back to the Planning and Zoning Commission for
additional review and modification. (Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993; amd. Ord. 2014-48,
10-27-2014)
      2.   Subsequent to Village Board approval, the Village Attorney or
appointed designee will prepare a development ordinance which forms the basis
of approval of a petition and includes conditions of approval, if any. (Ord.
93-42, 8-9-1993; amd. 2012 Code)
11-4-6: REQUIRED SUBMITTALS:
   A.   Drawings:
      1.   Prior to the issuance of a building permit, the owners of the tract
of land shall submit to the Village Administrator or appointed designee
seventeen (17) sets of plans, drawings and other information specified in this
section, unless specific submittal requirements are waived by the Village
Administrator or appointed designee. Plans and drawings shall be presented at
the scale necessary to clearly indicate what is planned for the property and
shall be folded approximately nine inches by twelve inches (9" x 12") in size.
      2.   Each drawing submitted to the Village shall include the following
information:
         a.   Names and addresses of the planner, architect, engineer, and
landscape architect.
         b.   Dates of all drawings.
         c.   Scale.
         d.   North arrow.
         e.   Sheet number.
         f.   Title by which the property or project is to be referred.
         g.   Dates of revision.
   B.   List Of Submittals:
      1.   Location Map:
•   Boundaries of the subject property.
   •   Major streets.
      2.   Site Information:
   •   Name and address of owner and/or petitioner.
   •   Proof of ownership.
   •   Existing and proposed zoning of the subject property.
      3.   Plat Of Survey:
   •   Prepared by a registered land surveyor.
   •   Legal description.
      4.   Site Plan:
•   Total gross acreage of the site.
   •   Percent of impervious and pervious surfaces.
   •   Existing zoning of adjacent parcels.
   •   Adjacent development, within 100 feet of the subject property,
including:
-   Buildings.
-   Access drives.
-   Parking and loading facilities.
-   Fences or walls.
•   Lot width and depth.
   •   Location and size of all structures, existing and proposed.
   •   Building setbacks from street rights of way and property lines.
   •   Yards and spaces between all structures.
   •   Depth of perimeter yards.
   •   Locations and dimensions of all fences and walls.
   •   Outdoor storage and/or display areas.
   •   Waste disposal facilities and proposed method of screening.
•   Location of existing and proposed transformers and HVAC equipment.
•   Streets and street rights of way.
   •   Dimensions of street pavement.
   •   Adjacent streets, alleys and driveways.
   •   Acceleration and deceleration lanes.
   •   Location and width of proposed access drive(s).
   •   Distance between existing and proposed drives, as measured centerline to
centerline.
   •   Emergency access, if required by the fire protection district.
   •   Vehicular and pedestrian circulation patterns.
   •   Location of sidewalks, both existing and proposed.
   •   Number/dimensions of parking spaces, loading zones, and drive aisles.
   •   Calculations for required parking, based on:
   -   Gross floor area; and/or
   -   Number of employees, where applicable.
   •   Identification and location of curbing.
   •   Barrier free access for the handicapped.
   •   Striping and signage for required off street loading spaces.
   •   Turning radii of trucks proposed to maneuver into and out of loading
zones. (Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993)
   •   Location of shopping cart storage corral(s) proposed to be located
within the interior of the parking lot. Any parking stalls rendered unusable
for vehicular parking due to the placement of such storage corral(s) thereon or
within proximity thereof shall be excluded from the number of parking stalls
provided in said parking lot for the purpose of determining compliance with
chapter 13 of this title. (Ord. 2007-20, 5-24-2007)
      5.   Natural Resources:
•   Map of existing vegetation, showing:
-   Land cover, by vegetative community.
-   Location and species of trees over 6 inch caliper.
-   Riparian habitat.
   •   Surface waters and drainageways.
   •   Floodplain and floodway.
   •   Wetlands.
   •   Soils report.
   •   Threatened or endangered plants and animals, if any.
      6.   Architectural Drawings:
•   Dimensioned elevations of all facades of the proposed structures.
   •   Height of existing and proposed buildings.
   •   Materials and colors for all elements of the proposed building(s).
   •   Material and color sample board for the proposed building(s).
   •   Color photographs of all existing structures on the site.
   •   Wall mounted utility meters and method for painting and/or screening.
   •   Materials, colors and design of trash enclosure(s).
   •   Ground supported mechanical equipment, and method for screening.
   •   Roof mounted mechanical equipment, and proposed method for screening,
including:
   -   Elevations of the top of the tallest roof mounted unit and the top of
each side of the parapet or roof structure.
   -   Cross sections of the building, showing the relationship between all
roof mounted mechanical equipment and the top of the parapet walls and/or roof
structure.
      7.   Antimonotony Standards:
•   Regulations for subtle changes in materials and color styling.
   •   Standards for siting buildings with identical elevations to one another.
   •   Other requirements which may be appropriate for the type and intensity
of the development proposed.
      8.   Landscape Plan:
•   Natural features, such as floodplains, wetlands, woodlots, etc.
   •   Location and types of existing vegetation.
   •   Size, condition and species of trees 6 inches or more in caliper.
   •   Trees proposed for preservation, if any, including methods for
preservation.
   •   Berms, if any, and identification of slopes.
•   Detention/retention ponds and identification of slopes.
   •   Existing and proposed grades (superimpose landscape plan on half toned
grading plan).
   •   Proposed perimeter yard plantings.
   •   Proposed foundation plantings.
   •   Parking lot landscaping.
   •   Retention/detention basin landscaping.
   •   Location of monument sign(s) and proposed landscaping of the base.
   •   Trees and shrubs drawn at scale that represents no more than 5 years'
growth after installation at sizes specified on the plan.
   •   Plant list which identifies, for each plant:
-   Botanical and common names.
-   Size and form.
-   Quantity.
•   Designated areas for seed, sod and other ground covers.
   •   Landscape specifications and details.
   •   Details for tree grates.
   •   Details for planters.
   •   Decorative fences or walls.
   •   Pedestrian plazas, including details for street furniture. (Ord. 93-42,
8-9-1993)
      9.   Lighting: Submittal requirements for parking lot, security,
landscape, walkway, accent, and building mounted lighting are contained in
chapter 20, "Exterior Lighting", of this title. (Ord. 2013-19, 4-22-2013)
      10.   Signs:
•   Freestanding or directional signs:
-   Setbacks from property lines and access drives.
-   Sign height, as measured from adjacent curbs.
-   Sign area.
-   Sign thickness.
-   Proposed copy and lettering style.
-   Proposed materials and colors.
-   Proposed method of illumination.
   •   Wall signs:
-   Sign area.
-   Area of the projected elevation of the building facade.
-   Sign length, or percent of the facade, as applicable.
-   Letter height.
-   Number of lines of copy.
-   Proposed copy, and lettering style.
-   Letters individually applied to the building.
-   Proposed materials and colors.
-   Proposed method of illumination.
      11.   Engineering:
•   Site geometrics.
   •   Specifications for:
-   Streets.
-   Curbs and gutters.
-   Sidewalks.
•   Grades, invert elevations, and locations of catch basins.
   •   Existing and proposed contours, at 1 foot intervals.
   •   Location and size of existing sewers, water mains, and culverts.
   •   Location of telephone and electric utilities.
   •   Location of utility poles.
•   Location of easements.
   •   Location of fire hydrants.
   •   Calculations which show compliance with title 10, chapter 12 of this
Code.
   •   Depth, size and slopes of retention/detention facilities. (Ord. 93-42,
8-9-1993)
   •   Location of existing and proposed traffic signals.
   •   Location of existing and proposed traffic regulation signs. (Ord. 93-42,
8-9-1993; amd. 2012 Code)
   •   Traffic study, if requested by the Village Planner, Village Engineer or
Planning and Zoning Commission. (Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993; amd. 2012 Code; Ord.
2014-48, 10-27-2014; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
   •   Estimated costs of public improvements. (Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993; amd. 2012
Code)
   •   Other information as may be required by the Village Engineer. (Ord. 93-
42, 8-9-1993; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
      12.   Real Estate Appraiser's Report: If requested by the Village
Administrator or the Planning and Zoning Commission. (Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993;
amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
      13.   Revised Drawings:
•   Date of all revisions, on each sheet.
   •   Graphic symbols to identify all changes. (Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993)
   C.   Property Of Village: All plans and support documentation submitted
shall become the property of the Village and cannot be withdrawn. Colored
renderings presented to the Planning and Zoning Commission and Village Board
may, however, be replaced with colored photographs not less than eight and one-
half inches by eleven inches (81/2" x 11") in size. (Ord. 93-42, 8-9-1993; amd.
Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
CHAPTER 5
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Buildings On Lots
11-5-2: Allowable Use Of Land Or Buildings
11-5-3: Public Utility Uses
11-5-4: Prohibited Use Of Land Or Buildings
11-5-5: Temporary And Interim Land Uses
11-5-6: Control Over Use
11-5-7: Changes To Approved Plans, Uses And Structures
11-5-8: Control Over Bulk
11-5-9: Accessory Structures And Uses
11-5-10: Special Uses
11-5-11: Yard Requirements
11-5-12: Permitted Obstructions In Yards
11-5-13: Sanitary Sewer And Water Systems
11-5-14: Garage And Rummage Sales
11-5-15: Cannabis Business Establishments Prohibited
11-5-1: BUILDINGS ON LOTS:
In residence districts, every dwelling hereafter erected or structurally
altered shall be located on a lot, and there shall not be more than one
principal building on one lot; except, in the case of planned developments, the
planned unit development district of 250 acres or more and the business park
planned unit development district of 75 to 250 acres, only one principal
building is permitted on any lot, and no principal building shall be
constructed over the lot line of any lot. (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973; amd. 2012
Code)
11-5-2: ALLOWABLE USE OF LAND OR BUILDINGS:
The following uses of land or buildings are allowed in the zoning districts
established by this title:
   A.   Uses lawfully established on the effective date hereof.
   B.   Permitted uses as designated in the zoning districts established by
this title.
   C.   Special uses. (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973; amd. 2012 Code)
11-5-3: PUBLIC UTILITY USES:
The following public utility uses are permitted in any district: poles, wires,
cables, conduits, vaults, laterals, pipes, mains, valves, lift stations and any
other similar distribution equipment; provided, that installation shall conform
with rules and regulations of the applicable administrative authorities. (Ord.
69-12, 4-23-1969)
11-5-4: PROHIBITED USE OF LAND OR BUILDINGS:
No building or tract of land shall be devoted to any use other than the one
which is specified as a permitted or special use in the zoning district in
which such building or land is located. However, where a building permit for a
building or structure has been issued in accordance with law prior to the
effective date hereof, and where construction has begun within six (6) months
of such effective date and diligently prosecuted to completion, said building
or structure may be completed in accordance with approved plans on the basis of
which the building permit was issued; and further, may, upon completion, be
occupied under a certificate of occupancy by the use originally designated,
subject to the provisions of chapter 12 of this title. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969;
amd. Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973; 2012 Code)
11-5-5: TEMPORARY AND INTERIM LAND USES:
Temporary and interim land uses in the following land use categories shall
require the issuance of a temporary land use permit which shall be issued by
the building and zoning official. A written application will be required for
such use, and the application must demonstrate that the use and applicant will
meet the requirements for a temporary land use permit as stipulated in this
section.
   A.   Unified Shopping Centers:
      1.   Sidewalk Sales: Sidewalk sales, sponsored by the businesses in a
unified shopping center, may be held for a period not exceeding ten (10)
calendar days, with no more than four (4) such sales being permitted in any
calendar year. Displays shall be arranged so that no such display shall cover
an area exceeding fifty percent (50%) of the depth of the sidewalk. At the
building and zoning official's discretion, the individual events may be
combined, so long as such combined sidewalk sales do not exceed forty (40) days
in any calendar year.
      2.   Other Promotional Events: Other promotional events include, but are
not limited to: carnivals, circuses, live performances, charity fundraisers,
holiday events, classic car events, food festivals, farmers' markets, or other
events sponsored by the businesses in the shopping center, or by the ownership
or management entity of the unified shopping center. The events, when approved
by the building and zoning official, may be held for a period not exceeding
seven (7) days out of a ten (10) day period. No more than a total of six (6)
promotional events shall be permitted in each calendar year. Set up and removal
time shall not be counted in the seven (7) day period. Events, such as farmers'
markets, that propose to occur at a frequency exceeding six (6) times within a
calendar year shall be approved as a special use pursuant to section
11-3-4 of this title.
   B.   Other Locations:
Promotional events, include, but are not limited to: company or church picnics,
carnivals, charity fundraisers, holiday events, or other events. The events,
when approved by the building and zoning official, may be held for a period not
exceeding three (3) calendar days, with no more than four (4) such events being
permitted in any calendar year. Events, such as farmers' markets, that propose
to occur at a frequency exceeding four (4) times within any calendar year,
shall be approved as a special use pursuant to section
11-3-4 of this title.
   C.   Requirements For Temporary Land Use Permit:
      1.   Dimensioned site plan indicating the specific location on the site
where the event will take place, detailing the major components, such as:
         a.   Main entrance,
         b.   Ticket booths,
         c.   Carnival rides,
         d.   Food service(s),
         e.   Portable toilets,
         f.   Games area,
         g.   Stage for performances,
         h.   Fencing locations, and
         i.   Vehicular parking locations;
      2.   Information about the proposed outside operator, if any;
      3.   Carnivals and circuses will require perimeter fencing if installed
in parking lots, and be detailed on the site plan;
      4.   Number of portable toilets;
      5.   Dates for duration of the event, including a detail of the setup and
removal;
      6.   Hours of operation;
      7.   Written estimate of the number of attendees, in the overall and peak
periods;
      8.   Evidence of liability insurance and the limits of liability.
      9.   For circuses and carnivals, certificates of insurance naming the
village as an additional insured must be provided. The building and zoning
official, in conjunction with the village administrator's office, will provide
the required coverage and limits of liability, and if additional endorsements
are needed;
      10.   Provisions for refuse collection;
      11.   Explanation of music provided and whether loudspeakers are to be
used, and a written plan to notify neighboring businesses or residents, if
applicable;
      12.   Proof of approval by the appropriate fire protection district;
      13.   Proof of an approved license from the DuPage County health
department, if food is being served;
      14.   Evidence of arrangements for private security, including any
security details provided by the village police department through a "charge
back" process;
      15.   Provisions for temporary event signage;
      16.   Other permits and information as required by the building and
zoning official, including permits for electrical installation, and to tap into
the village water and sewer system;
      17.   An application for a temporary use permit, including information
required as applicable in subsections C1 through C16 of this section, shall be
submitted to the building and zoning official no less than thirty (30) days
prior to the date of setup for the desired event;
      18.   The building and zoning official may create such application forms
as are necessary to obtain the requisite information; and
      19.   The building and zoning official is authorized to assess permit
fees on a daily or event basis as specified in this code.
   D.   Village Board Approval: When deemed to be acceptable, the village board
shall approve all permits for temporary land uses by motion. The village board
may deny approval of the event if there is testimony from the village staff or
village chief of police that the arrangements for private security personnel as
provided in writing, or the village's ability to provide security, whether
through a charge back process to the event sponsor or as part of its routine
staffing for special events, is not sufficient to ensure public safety. The
board may, at its discretion, waive the requirement for approval of recurring
events that occur subsequent to the initial event.
   E.   Previously Conducted Recurring Events: Recurring events that do not
require village board approval as of the date of the adoption of this code
amendment will not need village board approval after the date of adoption of
this code amendment so long as future events do not differ materially from
those events conducted previously. (Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013)
11-5-6: CONTROL OVER USE:
No building or premises shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no building or
structure, or part thereof, shall be erected, raised, moved, reconstructed,
extended, enlarged, or altered, except in conformity with the regulations
herein specified for the district in which it is located; except, that in
residence districts, a lot in a subdivision of record at the effective date
hereof, even though such lot does not meet the requirements of this title as to
area and width, may be used for single-family residence purposes, provided the
use conforms with all other regulations of the district in which it is located.
(Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
11-5-7: CHANGES TO APPROVED PLANS, USES AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   Minor Changes: The building and zoning official may approve minor
changes to approved uses, occupancies, building interiors and exteriors,
structures or parts of structures, signage and site layouts or site plans,
including those contained in site specific planned developments or site plan
approval ordinances. A change is considered to be minor if a preponderance of
the following apply: (Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014; amd. Ord. 2017-08, 3-13-2017)
      1.   It conforms to the concept, purpose and intent of the approved plan
and any applicable development agreement;
      2.   It conforms to the concept, purpose, and intent of the comprehensive
plan;
      3.   It conforms to the concept, purpose, and intent of the zoning code;
      4.   It conforms to the standards in the zoning code or is consistent
with the standards established in a planned development ordinance or permit;
      5.   It does not increase floor area or number of dwelling units by more
than five percent (5%) of that allowed by the applicable zoning district bulk
regulations;
      6.   It does not increase impervious coverage by more than ten percent
(10%) of the area of the applicable zoning lot or planned development to be
affected by the increased impervious area;
      7.   If a nonresidential use, it is not adjacent to residential uses;
      8.   The proposed use is within the same zoning classification as the
existing or approved use, and the intensity of the use does not increase as
follows:
         a.   When the parking requirement of the new use is greater than that
of the prior use; or
         b.   If in a business district (BP, B, O-D, or M-1), the hours of
operation are greater; or
         c.   There is an increase of noise or other activity resulting from
the new use.
      9.   The proposed exterior facade is harmonious with other properties,
and does not result in a change in character with the surrounding vicinity;
      10.   Notwithstanding the tree replacement requirements contained in
chapter 16 of this title, tree replacement necessitated by changes determined
to be minor shall require a minimum of one 3-inch caliper tree to replace each
tree, six inch (6") caliper or greater in size, removed. Locations for tree
replacement shall be shown on a site plan or site landscape plan. (Ord. 2014-
48, 10-27-2014)
   B.   Major Changes: A request that cannot be determined to be minor in
nature is deemed to be a major change. A major change shall be reviewed
according to the applicable procedure for new site plans or uses as specified
in this code.
   C.   Request For Minor Changes: The property owner shall authorize all
requests for minor changes. The property owner or an authorized tenant shall
provide such site plans, elevations, narrative description, or traffic
information as necessary in order to make a determination that a proposed
change is minor or major. (Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013)
   D.   Minor Changes Denied: Minor changes not approved by the building and
zoning official may be approved by the village board without the review and
recommendation of the planning and zoning commission. The village board may at
its discretion, however, refer such requests to the planning and zoning
commission for a public meeting, according to the applicable procedure for new
site plans as specified in this code. In that case, the planning and zoning
commission will prepare a finding of fact to be submitted to the board
containing its review of the revised plans. (Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013; amd.
Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
   E.   Mature Landscaping Installations In Shopping Centers, Retail Districts,
Office Buildings, And Business Parks:
      1.   Notwithstanding the requirements of chapter 16, "Tree Preservation",
of this title, property owners shall be allowed to replace mature plantings,
where the duration of the existing plantings exceeds ten (10) years, on a tree
for tree or shrub for shrub basis as a minor change.
      2.   Prior to a replacement of mature plantings as described in
subsection E1 of this section, a new landscaping plan, prepared by a licensed
landscape architect, shall be submitted indicating existing and new species,
and shall include a ledger breaking out deciduous canopy trees, evergreen
trees, ornamental trees, perennials and annuals, with species, size, and
quantity of plantings. Size of plantings and other landscaping requirements of
chapter 4, "Site Development And Plan Review", of this title shall apply.
      3.   For unified shopping centers or other retail concentrations the
property owner may also propose the regrading of landscaped yards to reduce
height of landscaped berms ranging from four feet (4') to six feet (6') to
three feet (3'). A landscaping plan shall be submitted showing the plantings on
the proposed regrading plan.
      4.   The village may at its discretion obtain the assistance of a
landscape or planning consulting firm to evaluate the appropriateness of any
replacement plantings. (Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013)
      5.   The village board shall approve the revised landscape plan. At their
discretion, the board may refer the revised landscape plan to the planning and
zoning commission for its review at a public meeting, according to the
applicable procedure for new site plans as specified in this code. In that
case, the planning and zoning commission will prepare a finding of fact to be
submitted to the board containing its review of the revised landscape plans.
(Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
11-5-8: CONTROL OVER BULK:
Except in the case of planned developments, all new buildings shall conform to
the bulk regulations established herein for the district in which each building
is located. Further, no existing building shall be enlarged, reconstructed,
structurally altered, converted, or relocated in such a manner as to conflict
with the bulk regulations of this title for the district in which such building
shall be located. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969; amd. Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013)
11-5-9: ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND USES:
   A.   Accessory Uses:
      1.   Accessory uses shall be compatible with the principal use and shall
not be established prior to the establishment of the principal use, and shall
not include the keeping, propagation or culture of pigeons, poultry or
livestock, whether or not for profit.
      2.   Private swimming pools shall be permitted accessory uses in any
residence district, provided they conform with the regulations of this title
and other applicable ordinances of the village.
   B.   Accessory Structures:
      1.   Location: No accessory structure, unless it is structurally a part
of the principal structure, and unless it conforms with requirements of
accessory structures for special uses, shall be erected or altered, nor moved
to a location within ten feet (10') of the nearest wall of the principal
structure or any structure on any adjacent lot, nor within the required area
for a front or side yard of the lot, as set forth for the district. An
accessory structure in a rear yard shall not be less than five feet (5') from
any property line; except, where a driveway along the side lot line is not
adjacent to a driveway on an adjoining lot, a detached garage need not be more
than three feet (3') from the side lot line; except, on corner lots, an
accessory structure shall be not nearer than the required depth of the front
yard along the property line adjoining the street; and on through lots, not
less than the distance required for a front yard from the rear lot line
abutting a street.
      2.   Encroachment Upon Yards: No accessory structure shall encroach upon
that side yard of a corner lot which is adjacent to the street, nor upon that
side yard of a reversed corner lot which is adjacent to the street, nor upon
the rear yard of a through lot.
      3.   Height: No accessory structure shall have more than one story, nor
exceed fifteen feet (15') in height, or the height of the principal structure,
whichever is less, unless otherwise permitted as accessory to business and
manufacturing uses or to authorized special uses.
      4.   Access From Alley: An accessory structure having vehicular access
from an alley shall not be less than five feet (5') from the lot line abutting
the alley.
      5.   Number Allowed: One general purpose accessory structure no larger
than two hundred (200) square feet in area is permitted on any lot in the
single-family residence districts. One other accessory structure with a maximum
area of one hundred fifty (150) square feet is also permitted as either: a) a
structure to be used in conjunction with a recreational activity, such as for
swimming pool equipment storage or horticultural equipment storage; or b) a
gazebo.
      6.   Access Doors: Accessory structures shall have access through
traditional, hinged doors. For lots over eighteen thousand (18,000) square feet
in area, access may be gained with overhead doors seven feet (7') or less in
width and seven feet (7') or less in height.
      7.   Garages:
         a.   Detached garages shall be permitted only in the R-2 single-
family residence district, and shall not be deemed accessory structures. The
area of such garages, however, shall be included in the thirty percent (30%)
rear yard coverage limitation provided by subsection
11-5-12E of this chapter.
         b.   Single-family residential properties located in the ER-1 and R-
1 single-family residence districts shall be allowed a garage for motor vehicle
("vehicle") storage with an area not to exceed one thousand (1,000) square
feet, and containing doors sufficient to accommodate four (4) vehicles. A
single garage door may consist of either a single stall width for one vehicle
or a double stall width for two (2) vehicles.
            (1)   On interior lots, the garage may be either side or front
loaded.
               (A)   If front loaded only, the garage can have a maximum of
three (3) single stall garage doors, or one single stall and one double stall
garage door facing the street.
               (B)   If side loaded only, the garage can have any combination
of single stall or double stall garage doors, to accommodate a maximum number
of four (4) garage doors.
               (C)   If front loaded and side loaded, the garage can have a
maximum number of three (3) garage doors facing the street, with the fourth
garage door facing the side yard, as long as the total number of garage doors,
both front and side loaded, accommodates no more than four (4) vehicles.
            (2)   On corner lots, the garage can have a maximum number of
garage doors for four (4) vehicles. A maximum number of four (4) doors for four
(4) vehicles are permitted facing the corner side property line, or some other
arrangement as determined by the building and zoning official. The four (4)
doors may consist of two (2) double stall doors, or one double stall door and
two (2) single stall doors, or four (4) single stall doors.
            (3)   On through lots, a maximum number of four (4) doors are
permitted, provided there are no more than three (3) stall doors facing the
front yard. The three (3) stall doors may consist of a double stall door and a
single stall door, or three (3) single stall doors.
         c.   Single-family residences in the R-2, R-2A, R-2B, and R-3 single-
family residence districts shall be allowed for a maximum of three (3) garage
doors to accommodate garage storage of not more than eight hundred (800) square
feet in area facing a front, side, or rear lot line on any interior, corner, or
through lots. The three (3) garage stall door openings may consist of any
combination of a double stall door or a single stall door.
         d.   The total square footage of a garage may not exceed fifty percent
(50%) of the total floor area of the dwelling unit.
         e.   All garage doors shall be of a uniform height, but shall not
exceed nine feet (9') in height.
         f.   Garage doors for a double stall to accommodate two (2) passenger
vehicles shall be no wider than eighteen (18) linear feet, and for a single
stall to accommodate one passenger vehicle shall be no wider than ten (10)
linear feet.
      8.   Electric Vehicle Charging Stations (EVCS) containing Electronic
Message Centers (EMC), shall be allowed in the B-1, Neighborhood Business
District, B-2, Community Business District, B-3, General Business District and
all business uses within the Planned Unit Development District of two hundred
and fifty (250) Acres or More, pursuant to Section
11-10B-3(B), as permitted uses, and subject to the following:
         a.   EVCS shall be no larger than eighty-six (86) inches in height,
forty-seven (47) inches in width and sixteen (16) inches in depth;
         b.   EMC faces shall be no more than fifty-seven (57) inches in height
and thirty-two (32) inches in width and no more than two (2) EMC's shall be
permitted for each EVCS;
         c.   All EMC faces shall be dimmed between the hours of eleven o’clock
(11:00) p.m. and sunrise, unless located within a completely enclosed building;
         d.   EMC displays shall not be permitted to change more than once
every eight (8) seconds;
         e.   EMC's on EVCS shall not exceed a total of twenty-six (26) square
feet, for both sides;
         f.   No EVCS containing an EMC shall be located within twenty-five
feet (25') to zero (0) feet from a public right-of-way, unless located in a
completely enclosed building;
         g.   No EVCS containing an EMC, shall be located within two hundred
and fifty feet (250') from any residentially zoned district;
         h.   No more than two (2) EVCS with EMC, shall be located on any
single acre of property;
         i.   EVCS, containing EMC's shall not be located on any lot smaller
than one (1) acre;
         j.   A pair of EVCS, containing EMC's shall not be located within
three hundred feet (300’) of the next nearest pair EVCS containing EMC's;
         k.   Approved EMC's may not contain music, voices or otherwise
generate any sound from the station;
         l.   At least one display of every eight (8), will be reserved for
community content, provided by the Village.
         m.   EMC's incorporated within EVCS shall only be permitted provided
that the electric vehicle battery charging services provided by the EVCS is
being provided at no charge to the consumer for a minimum of two hours;
         n.   Any EVCS, containing EMC's that are not able to comply with the
standards and criteria as set forth in
11-5-9B(8) of the Code, shall be required to obtain a special use for the
proposed structures, subject to the criteria set forth in section
11-3-4 of the Village Code. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, any
proposed EVCS containing EMC's that fail to meet the requirements of
11-5-9(B)(8)(8),
11-5-9(B)(8)(10), or
11-5-9(B)(8)(13) provided herein, shall be subject to review and/or approval of
the Village Board in open meeting, without requiring an additional public
hearing process. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969; amd. Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013; Ord.
2021-37, 9-27-2021)
11-5-10: SPECIAL USES:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide for the location of
certain uses hereinafter specified which are deemed desirable for the public
welfare within a given district or districts, but which might have an adverse
effect upon nearby properties or upon the character and future development of
the district in which they are located. A classification of special uses is
hereby established. Procedures for special uses are set forth in section
11-3-4 of this title.
   B.   Existing Special Uses: Where a use exists on the effective date hereof,
and it is classified as a special use by this title, it shall be considered to
be a lawful special use. Additions or alterations to existing buildings or land
improvements for expansion of lawful special uses may be made within the area
of the lot included in the ownership existing at the effective date hereof, and
they shall be subject to yard, floor area ratio, and building height
requirements set forth in this title for permitted uses in the districts in
which they are located. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969; amd. Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013)
11-5-11: YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The minimum yard space required for one structure shall not again be
considered as yard space for another adjoining structure.
   B.   No lot shall be reduced in area so that the yards or other open spaces
become less than required by this title.
   C.   On streets where a front yard setback has been maintained for buildings
existing on lots or tracts having a frontage of thirty percent (30%) or more of
the total frontage on one side of that portion of any street lying between two
(2) intersecting streets, or from an intersecting street and a corporate limits
line, no new building or portion thereof shall project beyond a straight line
drawn between the point closest to the street line of the residence upon either
side of the proposed structure, or if there be residences upon only one side,
then beyond the straight line projected from the front of the two (2) nearest
residences, but this regulation shall not be interpreted to require a front
yard of more than one hundred twenty five feet (125'), nor to permit a front
yard of less depth than that of the nearest building. Where the street is
curved, the line shall follow the curve of the street rather than be a straight
line.
   D.   On a vacant, through or corner lot, either of the lot lines abutting a
street right of way line may be established as its front lot line; except, that
where two (2) or more through lots are contiguous and a front lot line has been
duly established by the construction of a building on one of the lots, the same
street lot line shall thereafter be deemed to be the front lot line of all such
contiguous lots. On a through lot, a front yard shall be provided along any lot
line abutting a street. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969; amd. Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013)
11-5-12: PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS IN YARDS:
For the purpose of this title, the following are permitted obstructions in
yards: (Ord. 2008-14, 3-24-2008; amd. Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013)
   A.   In Any Yard: Chimneys, overhanging roof eaves, awnings, porches, and
steps and landings leading to or from an exterior door adjoining the principal
building, arbors and trellises, provided they do not exceed twenty five percent
(25%) of the depth of the yard; ornamental light standards and flagpoles; and
vegetation. Fences shall be permitted to the extent in compliance with chapter
19, "Fencing And Screening", of this title. (Ord. 2008-14, 3-24-2008; amd. Ord.
2012-27, 6-11-2012; Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013)
   B.   In Front Yards:
      1.   Any yard which adjoins a street shall be considered a front yard.
      2.   In addition to those obstructions identified by subsection A of this
section, off street parking and driveways are permitted in accordance with
chapter 13 of this title.
   C.   In Corner Side Yards: In addition to those obstructions identified by
subsection A of this section, off street parking and driveways are permitted in
accordance with chapter 13 of this title. All permitted obstructions shall be
sufficiently set back from the intersection of street lines so as to avoid
blocking sightlines for motorists.
   D.   In Interior Side Yards: In addition to those obstructions identified by
subsection A of this section, off street parking and driveways are permitted in
accordance with chapter 13 of this title. Permitted accessory buildings,
structures, and uses are allowed in an interior side yard; provided, that the
placement of same is consistent with this chapter and chapter 13 of this title.
(Ord. 2008-14, 3-24-2008; amd. Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013)
   E.   In Rear Yards: Accessory sheds, toolrooms or other similar accessory
buildings, gazebos, patios, decks, recreational equipment, private swimming
pools, tennis courts, provided the placement of same is in accordance with this
chapter. Off street parking, private garages, and driveways are permitted in
accordance with the provisions of chapter 13 of this title. Accessory buildings
or structures may not occupy more than thirty percent (30%) of a rear yard.
(Ord. 2012-27, 6-11-2012; amd. Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013)
   F.   Recreational Ramps:
      1.   Definition: The term "recreational ramp", as used in this
subsection, shall refer to all outdoor structures commonly known as ramps or
halfpipes, designed and principally intended for recreational use by persons on
skates, skateboards, or rollerblades. (Ord. 90-38, 6-25-1990; amd. 2012 Code;
Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013)
      2.   Permitted Accessory Use: A recreational ramp may be located as a
temporary accessory use in the rear yard of a zoning lot in any Single-Family
Residential District, provided:
         a.   Number And Coverage: Not more than one ramp is located on a
single zoning lot, and the recreational ramp, together with any other accessory
buildings or structures, does not occupy more than thirty percent (30%) of a
rear yard.
         b.   Commercial Use Prohibited: The ramp is not used for commercial
purposes.
         c.   Location: The ramp is located not less than:
            (1)   Ten feet (10') from an interior side lot line.
            (2)   Twenty feet (20') from a corner lot line.
            (3)   Ten feet (10') from a rear lot line.
            (4)   Ten feet (10') from the principal building on the lot.
            (5)   Fifteen feet (15') from any utility pole and ten feet (10')
from any point directly underneath any overhead utility line. (Ord. 90-38, 6-
25-1990; amd. Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013)
         d.   Screening: The ramp must be screened to buffer the view from
adjacent properties and public rights-of-way. The location and extent of
required screening shall be as determined by the Village Engineer.
            (1)   Screens must be at least as high as the ramp and may be
accomplished through the use of a fence, wall, berm, or landscaping, or a
combination of any of these methods.
            (2)   Landscaping used to screen recreational ramps shall, at a
minimum, include the installation of one (1) 8-foot tall, clump form ornamental
tree per ten (10) linear feet of ramp. Unless otherwise approved by the Village
Engineer, trees installed for screening shall be selected from one or more of
the following: (Ord. 90-38, 6-25-1990; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-
2013; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
Amur maple
Black alder
Crabtree varieties
River birch
Serviceberry
Thornless hawthorn
         e.   Use Restrictions: Recreational ramps shall be used in the
following manner:
            (1)   Only one person may use the ramp at any time.
            (2)   Except on Sundays, when ramps shall not be used until after
twelve o'clock (12:00) noon, use of the ramp shall be permitted only between
nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. or dusk, whichever comes
first.
            (3)   Use of the recreational ramp or those using such ramp shall
not violate any provisions of this Code, including, without limitation, all
ordinances related to noise and nuisances, and as such ordinances may be
amended.
            (4)   When not in use, the ramp shall have a chain, no less than
one inch (1") thick, locked across the skating or riding surface. (Ord. 90-38,
6-25-1990; amd. Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013)
         f.   Permit Requirements: No recreational ramp over thirty six inches
(36") in height shall be constructed without first receiving a building permit
from the Village Engineer. Individuals applying for a building permit must
submit the following information with their application and a review fee
established by the Village Board of Trustees 1 : (Ord. 90-38, 6-25-1990; amd.
2012 Code; Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
            (1)   Plans for the proposed ramp which show materials, method of
construction, dimensions, and design, in conformity with subsection F2g of this
section.
            (2)   Plat of survey for the property upon which the ramp is
located, detailing the location and method of screening proposed.
            (3)   Details for the proposed fence, wall, berm, or landscape
plantings, including height and size of all plant materials.
            (4)   Pictures of the proposed location of the ramp, including its
surroundings and adjacent property lines.
            (5)   Statement in writing by applicant stating that the proposed
ramp will conform to all standards and specifications established in this
subsection.
         g.   Building Requirements:
            (1)   No recreational ramp shall be more than six feet (6') in
height as measured from the adjacent grade to the top of the structure
excluding the guardrail.
            (2)   All ramps greater than thirty inches (30") in height shall
have a guardrail at least thirty six inches (36") in height on the platform(s).
            (3)   All lumber in direct contact with the ground shall be
pressure treated with wood preservative.
            (4)   Plywood used in the ramp construction shall be exterior
grade; the surface of the ramp being at least two (2) layers of three-eighths
inch (3/8") thick plywood.
            (5)   All wood used in ramp construction shall be smooth finished
to prevent injury and shall be properly surface coated to prevent deterioration
and unsightliness.
            (6)   The ramp shall be painted a single color in conformity with
the principal structure and shall not contain any designs, logos, writing, or
other artwork.
            (7)   Ramps shall be "soundproofed" by placing tar paper in between
the plywood layers of the skating or riding surface and by first insulating and
then enclosing the ends with plywood. (Ord. 90-38, 6-25-1990; amd. Ord. 2013-
33, 10-28-2013)
         h.   Approval: The location, design, method of screening, and method
of construction shall be subject to review and approval by the Village
Engineer. A building permit for a recreational ramp shall not be issued unless
all information required by this subsection has been furnished by the
applicant. (Ord. 90-38, 6-25-1990; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013;
Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
         i.   Existing Ramps: All property owners with recreational ramps in
place on the effective date hereof shall have a period of thirty (30) days from
said effective date to either remove the ramp, bring it into compliance with
the provisions of this subsection or apply for and receive a variation from the
Village Planning and Zoning Commission as set forth in subsection F4 of this
section.
      3.   Special Use Permit: Recreational ramps may be permitted in a
commercial recreation area or neighborhood parks; provided, however, a special
use permit is obtained for the ramp or ramps in accordance with procedures and
evaluative criteria set forth in chapter 3 of this title. The location, design,
screening, and hours of use shall be as recommended by the planning and zoning
commission and approved by the village board as part of the special use permit.
Information furnished as part of the application for a special use permit shall
be as specified in subsection F2f of this section.
      4.   Authorized Variations:
         a.   The planning and zoning commission shall decide upon authorized
variations from the provisions of this subsection, and shall grant them only in
the specific instances where there are demonstrated practical difficulties or
particular hardships in implementing the regulations hereof. (Ord. 90-38, 6-25-
1990; amd. Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013; Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
         b.   Any individual applying for a variation shall be subject to the
procedures contained in section
11-3-6 of this title. (Ord. 90-38, 6-25-1990; amd. Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013)
         c.   The decision by the planning and zoning commission to grant a
variation to any regulations specified in subsections F2c, F2d and F2g of this
section shall be based upon a showing by the petitioner: (Ord. 90-38, 6-25-
1990; amd. Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013; Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
            (1)   That the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved would bring a
particular hardship upon the owner, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience
if the regulations were strictly enforced;
            (2)   That the recreational ramp should be located in a corner side
or interior side yard in lieu of the required rear yard due to the particular
physical surroundings, shape or topographical conditions of the specific
property involved;
            (3)   That the proposed recreational ramp will not have an adverse
effect upon the ability of the persons who own, occupy or reside on nearby
properties to use and enjoy their property;
            (4)   That the recreational ramp will not constitute a hazard to
the safety of persons or property;
            (5)   That the proposed recreational ramp will not have an adverse
effect on the value of nearby properties;
            (6)   That the proposed recreational ramp will be adequately
screened from view of adjacent properties and public rights of way; and
            (7)   That the proposed recreational ramp will not be detrimental
to the public welfare. (Ord. 90-38, 6-25-1990; amd. Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013)
         d.   The planning and zoning commission may require such conditions
and restrictions upon the premises benefited by a variation as may be necessary
to comply with the standards set forth in this subsection to reduce or
eliminate any negative effect of such variation upon other property in the
neighborhood and to implement the general purpose and intent of this
subsection. (Ord. 90-38, 6-25-1990; amd. Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013; Ord. 2014-
48, 10-27-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-1-2-3 of this Code.
11-5-13: SANITARY SEWER AND WATER SYSTEMS:
A lot within a subdivision or planned development, or an individual lot not a
part of an organized subdivision, shall be served by community or public
sanitary sewer and water supply systems, except such a lot, recorded after the
effective date hereof, which contains at least twenty four thousand (24,000)
square feet of area and is at least one hundred fifty feet (150') in width, or
in a duly recorded subdivision located within the village limits on the
effective date hereof. Any lot of record, when used for a single-family
dwelling, may be served by individual sewage treatment and water supply
systems. Such individual sewage treatment and water supply systems shall be
installed in accordance with applicable village of Bloomingdale, DuPage County,
and state of Illinois regulations and standards. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969; amd.
Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013)
11-5-14: GARAGE AND RUMMAGE SALES:
The following are regulations for garage and rummage sales:
   A.   No sale items shall be located and no activities shall be conducted on
a public sidewalk, parkway area or other public property. Further, no sale
items shall be left out for display later than seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. on any
day.
   B.   No more than three (3) rummage or garage sales shall be conducted on
the same premises in any calendar year. One rummage or garage sale shall be
limited to a period of not more than three (3) consecutive days and shall be
conducted only during the hours between nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) P.M. The sale shall be conducted without the use of outdoor
speakers, other amplification equipment, or illuminated advertising devices.
   C.   The person conducting the garage sale must notify the chief of police
or his designee of the sale prior to the commencement of the sale.
   D.   Each violation of this section shall result in a fine in the amount not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992; amd. Ord. 2013-33,
10-28-2013; Ord. 2020-34, 11-23-2020)
11-5-15: CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED:
   A.   The following words and phrases shall, for the purposes of this
section, be defined as follows:
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT: A cultivation center, craft
grower, processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing organization
or transporting organization.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
(P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities
to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it
may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling and dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may
be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS EVENT: Any public or private event operated by an
organization or business where attendees can consume cannabis, or cannabis
products, as part of any special event.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER: A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis-infused product, per
the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from
time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS LOUNGE: A facility operated by an organization or
business where customers can consume cannabis or cannabis products, in a social
setting.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR: A facility operated
by an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER: An organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-
0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
   PERSON: Any person, firm, corporation, association, club, society or other
organization, including any owner, manager, proprietor, employee, volunteer or
agent.
   B.   Cannabis Business Establishments Prohibited: The following adult-use
cannabis business establishments are prohibited in the village. No person shall
locate, operate, own, suffer, allow to be operated or abide, abet or assist in
the operation within the village of any of the following:
   Adult-use cannabis craft grower.
   Adult-use cannabis cultivation center.
   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization.
   Adult-use cannabis event.
   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization or infuser.
   Adult-use cannabis lounge.
   Adult-use cannabis processing organization or processor.
   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization or transporter.
   C.   Public Nuisance Declared: Operation of any prohibited cannabis business
establishment within the village in violation of the provisions of this section
is hereby declared a public nuisance and shall be abated pursuant to all
available remedies.
   D.   Violations: Violations of this section may be enforced in accordance
with the provisions of Chapter 3 of this Code. (Ord. 2019-36, 11-11-2019)
CHAPTER 6
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
11-6-1: Districts Established
11-6-2: Zoning Map
11-6-3: Determination Of District Boundaries
11-6-4: Zoning Of Annexed Land
11-6-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
In order to carry out the purpose and provisions of this title, the village is
hereby divided into the following zoning districts:
Residence districts:
 ER-1 Estate residence district
 R-1  Single-family residence district
 R-2  Single-family residence district
 R-2A Single-family residence district
 R-2B Single-family residence district
 R-2C Single-family residence district
 R-3  General residence district
 R-4  Multiple-family dwelling residence district
 R-5  Multiple-family dwelling high rise district
      
Business districts:
 B-1  Neighborhood business district
 B-2  Community business district
 B-3  General service business district
 B-4  Automotive service business district
 O-D  Office district
 R-R  Hotel-motel resort and recreational district
      
M-1 Limited manufacturing district
      
Planned unit development districts:
 Business park planned unit development district of 75 to 250 acres
 Planned unit development district of 250 acres or more
      
OTP Old town preservation district
 
(Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969; amd. Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973; Ord. 74-7, 2-13-1974; Ord.
74-24, 6-24-1974; Ord. 76-36, 7-12-1976; Ord. 76-57, 9-13-1976; Ord. 77-21, 4-
11-1977; Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981; Ord. 83-28, 8-11-1983; Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987;
Ord. 2002-34, 8-12-2002; Ord. 2006-03, 1-23-2006; 2012 Code; Ord. 2014-46, 10-
27-2014)
11-6-2: ZONING MAP:
The districts and their boundaries are as shown upon the zoning map entitled
"Village Of Bloomingdale, Illinois, Zoning Map", dated April 23, 1969, which
map and all amendments thereto and all notations, references and other
information shown thereon are hereby incorporated and made a part of this title
with the same force and effect as if the said zoning map, amendments,
notations, references and other information were fully herein set forth. The
map shall be filed with the office of the village clerk and certified copies
thereof in the office of the building and zoning official, and shall be open to
public reference at all times during which those offices are open. (Ord. 69-12,
4-23-1969; amd. 2012 Code)
11-6-3: DETERMINATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
When uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various districts
as shown on the zoning district map, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   District boundary lines are either the centerlines of railroads,
highways, streets, alleys, rights of way, easements, tract or lot lines, or
such lines extended, unless otherwise indicated.
   B.   In areas not subdivided into lots and blocks, wherever a district is
indicated as a strip adjacent to and paralleling a street, highway, or railroad
right of way, the depth of such strips shall be in accordance with dimensions
shown on the maps measured at right angles from the centerline of a street,
highway, or railroad, and the length of frontage shall be in accordance with
dimensions shown on the map from centerlines of streets, highways, or railroad
rights of way unless otherwise indicated.
   C.   Where a district boundary line divides a lot in single ownership, the
regulations for either portion of the lot may, in the owner's discretion,
extend to the entire lot, but not more than twenty five feet (25') beyond the
boundary line of the district. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
11-6-4: ZONING OF ANNEXED LAND:
Any additions to the incorporated area of the village shall automatically be
classified in the ER-1 estate residence district. Nothing contained in this
section shall prevent an interested party from requesting that any property be
rezoned upon annexation to the village. (Ord. 2002-34, 8-12-2002)
CHAPTER 7
RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL RESIDENCE DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-7A-1: Home Occupations
11-7A-2: Signs
11-7A-3: Noise
11-7A-4: Off Street Parking And Loading
11-7A-5: Public Properties And Institutions
11-7A-1: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
Home occupations shall be governed by the following regulations:
   A.   Permitted home occupations may include any of the following:
Art studio.
Dressmaking.
Professional offices of a clergyman, physician, dentist, lawyer, architect,
engineer, or accountant, but limited to one employee at any one time.
Teaching, including musical instruments or dancing, but limited to one pupil at
a time. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
   B.   Permitted home occupations shall not include any other use such as, but
not limited to, the following:
Barbershop or salon.
Clinic or hospital.
Manufacturing or processing of goods, materials, or products.
Repair shop or service establishment of any kind operating on or from the
premises.
Stable or kennel.
The operation of any wholesale or retail business or service unless conducted
entirely by mail or telephone and does not involve the sale, repair, receipt,
or delivery of merchandise on the premises. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969; amd. 2012
Code)
11-7A-2: SIGNS:
Signs shall be subject to the regulations of chapter 14 of this title. (2012
Code)
11-7A-3: NOISE:
Noise shall be limited in accordance with the provisions set forth in
subsection 11-9-7A of this title. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
11-7A-4: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Parking spaces and loading berths shall be in accordance with the provisions
set forth in chapter 13 of this title. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
11-7A-5: PUBLIC PROPERTIES AND INSTITUTIONS:
   A.   Publicly owned properties and institutions including, but not limited
to, buildings and properties used, or intended for use, primarily as municipal
works, fire and police protection, public schools, parks and playgrounds, are
herewith exempted from the general conditions, yard and other bulk requirements
of this article. All such properties and institutions shall be and are herewith
declared to be special uses and shall be subject to the requirements of section
11-5-10 of this title.
   B.   All publicly owned properties and institutions which existed lawfully
at the effective date hereof may continue in accordance with the applicable
regulations of chapter 12 of this title.
   C.   The regulations, development and use of publicly owned properties and
institutions shall be considered and treated on the same basis as planned
developments as provided in chapter 18 of this title; except, subsections 11-
18-2D, F6 and H of this title are herewith declared inapplicable. (Ord. 77-59,
11-28-1977)
ARTICLE B. ER-1 ESTATE RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-7B-1: Site And Structure Requirements
11-7B-2: Permitted Uses
11-7B-3: Special Uses
11-7B-1: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: Lot area to be not less than forty thousand (40,000) square
feet.
   B.   Lot Width: Lot width to be not less than one hundred twenty five feet
(125').
   C.   Minimum Floor Area Per Dwelling:
      1.   One-story buildings: Not less than one thousand seven hundred fifty
(1,750) square feet on the ground floor.
      2.   Dwellings having more than one story: Not less than one thousand
five hundred feet (1,500') on the ground floor and not less than two thousand
five hundred (2,500) square feet for all floors.
   D.   Floor Area Ratio: Floor area ratio shall not exceed 0.25.
   E.   Building Height: Building height is not to exceed two and one-half (21/
2) stories or thirty feet (30'), whichever is lower.
   F.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: Front yard is to be not less than fifty feet (50') in
depth. (Ord. 2002-34, 8-12-2002)
      2.   Side Yards:
         a.   Two (2) side yards having a combined width of forty feet (40')
and neither side yard less than twenty feet (20') in width. (Ord. 2002-34, 8-
12-2002; amd. 2012 Code)
         b.   A side yard abutting a street shall not be less than fifty feet
(50') wide. Where a lot, subdivided and recorded on the effective date hereof,
has insufficient width to provide such fifty feet (50') maintaining a buildable
width of thirty eight feet (38'), then the side yard abutting the street may be
reduced in width to maintain such thirty eight feet (38'), provided the said
side yard is not reduced to less than thirty percent (30%) of the width of the
lot.
      3.   Rear Yard: Rear yard is to be not less than fifty feet (50') in
depth.
   G.   Garage:
      1.   No detached garage will be permitted.
      2.   A garage shall have a maximum capacity for four (4) vehicles. (Ord.
2002-34, 8-12-2002)
11-7B-2: PERMITTED USES:
Parks and playgrounds, publicly owned and operated.
Schools, nonboarding elementary, junior high, high, or junior college.
Single-family detached dwellings.
Temporary buildings for construction purposes for a period not to exceed such
construction.
Accessory uses to the above permitted uses. (Ord. 2002-34, 8-12-2002)
11-7B-3: SPECIAL USES:
Art galleries and museums.
Churches.
Colleges and universities and uses accessory and incidental thereto, but not
colleges or trade schools operated for profit.
Convents, monasteries, and seminaries.
Golf courses, but not including commercially operated driving ranges or
miniature par 3 courses.
Growing of farm crops in the open, including truck gardens and nurseries;
provided, that no livestock, poultry, or pigeons are kept, and that no
offensive odors or dust is created; and further, that no retail sales are
conducted from a store or stand erected or maintained on the premises.
Hospitals or clinics.
Libraries.
Municipal or nonprofit privately owned recreational buildings and community
centers.
Park district or municipally owned lighted miniature golf facilities.
Park district or municipally owned lighted recreational fields.
Parks and playgrounds, privately owned and operated, but not for profit.
Planned developments.
Schools, private: nursery, elementary, or high.
Utility and public service, including:
Electric substation or distribution centers.
Fire stations.
Municipal water filtration plants, pumping stations, reservoirs, and sewage
treatment plants.
Police stations.
Radio or television transmission or receiving towers.
Railroad right of way and passenger stations.
Telephone exchanges and substations, microwave relay towers, and telephone
transmission equipment buildings. (Ord. 2002-34, 8-12-2002)
ARTICLE C. R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-7C-1: Site And Structure Requirements
11-7C-2: Permitted Uses
11-7C-3: Special Uses
11-7C-1: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: Lot area is to be not less than eighteen thousand (18,000)
square feet.
   B.   Lot Width: Lot width is to be not less than one hundred feet (100').
   C.   Minimum Floor Area Per Dwelling:
      1.   One-story dwellings: Not less than one thousand three hundred fifty
(1,350) square feet on the ground floor.
      2.   Dwellings having more than one story: Not less than one thousand
(1,000) square feet on the ground floor and not less than one thousand three
hundred fifty (1,350) square feet for all floors.
      3.   Split level dwellings: Not less than one thousand three hundred
fifty (1,350) square feet for the first two (2) floors of the living area,
which floors must be fully exposed on all elevations, without including in the
computation thereof of any living area below, or partially below, ground level.
   D.   Floor Area Ratio: Floor area ratio is not to exceed 0.3.
   E.   Building Height: Building height is not to exceed two and one-half (21/
2) stories or thirty feet (30'), whichever is lower.
   F.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: Front yard is to be not less than forty feet (40') in
depth.
      2.   Side Yards:
         a.   Two (2) side yards having a combined width of twenty feet (20')
and neither side yard less than eight feet (8') in width.
         b.   A side yard abutting a street shall not be less than forty feet
(40') wide. Where a lot, subdivided and recorded on the effective date hereof,
has insufficient width to provide such forty feet (40') maintaining a buildable
width of thirty eight feet (38'), then the side yard abutting the street may be
reduced in width to maintain such thirty eight feet (38'), provided the said
side yard is not reduced to less than thirty percent (30%) of the width of the
lot.
      3.   Rear Yard: Rear yard is to be not less than fifty feet (50') in
depth. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
      4.   Requirements For Specific Areas: Notwithstanding the yard
requirements established in this subsection, the minimum front, side, or rear
yard required for all lots fronting Lake Street, Bloomingdale Road, Army Trail
Road, Schmale Road, and Gary Avenue shall be seventy five feet (75') for
whichever yard(s) of said lots fronts said streets; the minimum front, side, or
rear yard required for all lots fronting Schick Road shall be sixty feet (60')
for whichever yard(s) of said lots fronts said street. (Ord. 2007-20, 5-24-
2007)
   G.   Garage: No detached garage will be permitted. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
11-7C-2: PERMITTED USES:
Parks and playgrounds publicly owned and operated.
Schools, nonboarding elementary, junior high, high, or junior college.
Single-family detached dwellings.
Temporary buildings for construction purposes for a period not to exceed such
construction.
Accessory uses to the above permitted uses. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
11-7C-3: SPECIAL USES:
Art galleries and museums.
Churches.
Colleges and universities and uses accessory and incidental thereto but not
colleges or trade schools operated for profit.
Convents, monasteries, and seminaries.
Golf courses, but not including commercially operated driving ranges or
miniature par 3 courses.
Growing of farm crops in the open, including truck gardens and nurseries;
provided, that no livestock, poultry, or pigeons are kept, and that no
offensive odors or dust is created; and further, that no retail sales are
conducted from a store or stand erected or maintained on the premises.
Hospitals or clinics.
Libraries.
Municipal or nonprofit privately owned recreational buildings and community
centers.
Park district or municipally owned lighted miniature golf facilities.
Park district or municipally owned lighted recreational fields.
Parks and playgrounds privately owned and operated, but not for profit.
Planned developments.
Publicly or privately operated early childhood learning centers and preschools,
and privately operated elementary schools, junior high schools, middle schools,
or high schools.
Utility and public service uses, including:
Electric substations and distribution centers.
Fire stations.
Municipal water filtration plants, pumping stations, reservoirs, and sewage
treatment plants.
Police stations.
Radio or television transmission or receiving towers.
Railroad rights of way and passenger stations.
Telephone exchanges and substations, microwave relay towers, and telephone
transmission equipment buildings. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969; amd. Ord. 89-21, 5-8-
1989; Ord. 2011-40, 11-28-2011)
ARTICLE D. R-2 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-7D-1: Site And Structure Requirements
11-7D-2: Permitted Uses
11-7D-3: Special Uses
11-7D-1: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: Lot area is to be not less than twelve thousand (12,000)
square feet.
   B.   Lot Width: Lot width is to be not less than eighty feet (80').
   C.   Minimum Floor Area Per Dwelling:
      1.   One-story dwellings: Not less than one thousand one hundred (1,100)
square feet on the ground floor.
      2.   Dwellings having more than one story: Not less than eight hundred
fifty (850) square feet on the ground floor and not less than one thousand one
hundred (1,100) square feet for all floors.
      3.   Split level dwellings: Not less than one thousand one hundred
(1,100) square feet on the first two (2) floors of the living area without
including, in the computation thereof, any living area below, or partially
below, ground level.
   D.   Floor Area Ratio: Floor area ratio is not to exceed 0.3. For purposes
of determining the Floor Area Ratio within this Section as it relates to the R-
2 Single-Family Residence District, the calculation required to obtain the
Floor Area shall not include the floor space devoted to enclosed off street
parking and off street loading areas to the extent that such areas total five
hundred (500) square feet or less. Any floor space devoted to enclosed off-
street parking and off street loading area in excess of five hundred (500)
square feet shall be included in Floor Area Ratio calculation.
   E.   Building Height: Building height is not to exceed two and one-half (21/
2) stories or thirty feet (30'), whichever is lower.
   F.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: Front yard is not to be less than forty feet (40') in
depth.
      2.   Side Yards:
         a.   Two (2) side yards having a combined width of twenty feet (20')
and neither side yard less than eight feet (8') in width.
         b.   A side yard abutting a street is not to be less than forty feet
(40') wide.
         c.   If a corner lot, subdivided and duly recorded on the effective
date hereof, has insufficient width to provide such yard of forty feet (40') in
width and still to maintain a buildable width of thirty eight feet (38'),
including the side yard along the opposite lot line, then the side yard
abutting the street may be reduced in width by the distance necessary to
maintain a buildable width of thirty eight feet (38'), provided the side yard
abutting the street is not reduced to less than thirty percent (30%) of the
width of the lot.
      3.   Rear Yard: Rear yard is not to be less than forty feet (40') in
depth. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
      4.   Requirements For Specific Areas: Notwithstanding the yard
requirements established in this subsection, the minimum front, side, or rear
yard required for all lots fronting Lake Street, Bloomingdale Road, Army Trail
Road, Schmale Road, and Gary Avenue shall be seventy five feet (75') for
whichever yard(s) of said lots fronts said streets; the minimum front, side, or
rear yard required for all lots fronting Schick Road shall be sixty feet (60')
for whichever yard(s) of said lots fronts said street. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969;
amd. Ord. 2007-20, 5-24-2007; Ord. 2022-40, 10-10-2022)
11-7D-2: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Uses permitted in the R-1 district.
   B.   Group Homes as defined in Section
11-2-2 of this Code and subject to the following conditions:
      1.   Occupancy: Occupancy of a group home shall not exceed a maximum of
seven (7) unrelated persons, including five (5) residents and two (2) resident
support staff.
      2.   Spacing: A group home may be located no closer than two thousand
five hundred feet (2,500') from another group home and no more than five (5)
group homes total, shall be permitted in the Village. This requirement may only
be waived if the village board finds that the cumulative effect of such uses
would not alter the residential character of the neighborhood; would not create
an institutional setting; and would not adversely affect surrounding
properties.
      3.   Residential Character: A group home shall be designed to be
compatible in size, type and building material to adjacent homes. In addition,
a group home shall have no signage or activities that would alter the
residential character or appearance of the dwelling. With the exception of
those office activities and meetings which involve only the resident staff of
the group home in which they occur, no office use or agency meetings may be
held within the group home.
      4.   Traffic Generation and Parking: A group home shall not generate any
more traffic than typically associated with a single-family residence, nor
require more vehicular parking than exists on a local residential street or the
parking spaces assigned to the dwelling unit.
      5.   Maintenance: Group homes shall be maintained in a safe, sanitary and
attractive condition at all times, in conformance with all applicable local,
state and federal codes and ordinances.
      6.   Licensing: Group homes shall obtain and maintain at all times valid
licensing, certification, and/or accreditation by appropriate local, state and
national bodies charged with the regulation of group homes and shall adhere to
all governing local, state and national codes and regulations. Group homes not
licensed by local, state or national licensing, certification, or accreditation
processes shall not be allowed. In addition, the group home sponsor shall
supply the village with the following information:
         a.   Location of the group home.
         b.   Name, address, and qualifying references of the sponsoring
agency.
         c.   Letter of explanation elaborating on the maximum number of
residents to be served, general programming, hours of operation and maximum
number of and qualifications of staff to be assigned to the group home.
Whenever clients are present, at least one qualified staff person, as
determined appropriate by current Illinois Department of Mental Health and
Developmental Disabilities standards, shall be present in the group home at all
times.
         d.   Evidence of appropriate local, state and/or national licensing,
certification or accreditation for the facility and/or agency, as required.
         e.   Building floor plan and plat of survey.
         f.   Proof of agency ownership, option to own, or signed lease for the
residence to be occupied. Ownership or lease of the group home by residents of
the facility shall be permitted provided agency ownership and leasing
requirements as set forth by the Illinois Department of Mental Health and
developmental Disabilities and delineated in section 115.300 - environmental
management of living arrangements, paragraphs b) and c) are complied with.
      7.   Biannual Inspection: Group homes, as determined necessary by the
Director of Community and Economic Development or his/her designee, shall be
subject to two (2) unannounced inspections per year which shall include an
inspection fee, pursuant to the Village's fee schedule. The inspections are to
ensure that all of the regulations in this and all other village ordinances are
adhered to as a responsibility of receiving special use approval for such a use
in a dwelling. The first such inspection shall occur as part of the village's
review process for the group home. Failure to comply with the provisions of
this or any other codes or ordinances will result in the revocation of the
occupancy permit for the group home. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969; amd. Ord .2020-24,
10-12-2020)
11-7D-3: SPECIAL USES:
Special uses permitted in the R-1 district. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
ARTICLE E. R-2A SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-7E-1: Purpose
11-7E-2: Permitted Uses
11-7E-3: Special Uses
11-7E-4: Lot Size
11-7E-5: Yards
11-7E-6: Bulk Regulations
11-7E-1: PURPOSE:
The R-2A single-family residence district is intended primarily to preserve and
protect existing single-family residences constructed on smaller lots. The
district should be mapped in those areas where dwellings are presently
constructed on smaller lots and where small tracts of developable land are
available in order to maintain and enhance the character of these areas. (Ord.
74-24, 6-24-1974)
11-7E-2: PERMITTED USES:
Any use permitted in the R-1 single-family residence district. (Ord. 2011-10,
2-28-2011)
11-7E-3: SPECIAL USES:
Any special use permitted in the R-1 single-family residence district. (Ord.
2011-10, 2-28-2011)
11-7E-4: LOT SIZE:
   A.   Lot Required: With the exception of planned developments, a separate
ground area, herein called the "zoning lot", shall be designated, provided, and
continuously maintained for each structure containing a permitted use. (Ord.
74-24, 6-24-1974; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Permitted Use Lot Sizes:
 
                                 Minimum Lot Area   Minimum Lot Width
Parks and playground buildings   60,000 square feet 150 feet
Schools                          30,000 square feet 125 feet
Single-family detached dwellings 10,800 square feet 70 feet
 
(Ord. 74-24, 6-24-1974; amd. Ord. 2011-10, 2-28-2011)
11-7E-5: YARDS:
   A.   Unobstructed Space: Except as otherwise hereinafter provided, the space
resulting from the setbacks (yard requirements) in this section shall be open
and unobstructed.
   B.   Permitted Uses:
 
                               Front   Interior Side Yard Corner Yard Rear Yard
Parks and playground buildings 45 feet 25 feet1           35 feet     50 feet
Schools                        50 feet 25 feet1           35 feet     75 feet
Single-family detached         35 feet 10 feet            35 feet     30 feet
dwellings
 
Note:
   1.    Plus 1 foot for each 2 feet by which the building or structure height
exceeds 15 feet.
(Ord. 74-24, 6-24-1974; amd. Ord. 2011-10, 2-28-2011)
   C.   Yards Fronting Specific Streets: Notwithstanding the yard requirements
established in this section, the minimum front, side, or rear yard required for
all lots fronting Lake Street, Bloomingdale Road, Army Trail Road, Schmale
Road, and Gary Avenue shall be seventy five feet (75') for whichever yard(s) of
said lots fronts said streets. The minimum front, side, or rear yard required
for all lots fronting Schick Road shall be sixty feet (60') for whichever yard
(s) of said lots fronts said street. (Ord. 2007-20, 5-24-2007)
11-7E-6: BULK REGULATIONS:
   A.   Ground Floor Area Per Dwelling Unit:
      1.   One-story single-family dwellings shall have not less than one
thousand one hundred (1,100) square feet on the ground floor.
      2.   Dwellings having more than one story shall have not less than eight
hundred fifty (850) square feet on the ground floor and shall have not less
than one thousand one hundred (1,100) square feet for all floors. (Ord. 74-24,
6-24-1974)
   B.   Maximum Floor Area Ratio: All permitted uses other than those
referenced in subsection A of this section shall be regulated on the basis of
maximum floor area ratio.
      1.   Single-family detached dwellings: 0.30.
      2.   Park and playground buildings: 0.25.
      3.   Schools, elementary and/or secondary: 0.25.
      4.   Cultural institutions: 0.25. (Ord. 74-24, 6-24-1974; amd. Ord. 2011-
10, 2-28-2011; 2012 Code)
      5.   Planned developments, residential: As specified by the planning and
zoning commission.
      6.   Public utility and service uses: As specified by the planning and
zoning commission. (Ord. 74-24, 6-24-1974; amd. Ord. 2011-10, 2-28-2011; 2012
Code; Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
   C.   Maximum Building Height: Two and one-half (21/2) stories but not to
exceed thirty five feet (35'). (Ord. 74-24, 6-24-1974)
ARTICLE F. R-2B SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-7F-1: Purpose
11-7F-2: Permitted Uses
11-7F-3: Accessory Uses
11-7F-4: Special Uses
11-7F-5: Lot Size
11-7F-6: Yards
11-7F-7: Bulk Regulations
11-7F-8: Dwelling Standards
11-7F-1: PURPOSE:
The R-2B single-family residence district is intended primarily to preserve and
protect existing single-family residences constructed on smaller lots. The
district should be mapped in those areas where dwellings are presently
constructed on smaller lots and where small tracts of developable land are
available in order to maintain and enhance the character of these areas. (Ord.
76-36, 7-12-1976)
11-7F-2: PERMITTED USES:
Any use permitted in the R-1 single-family residence district. (Ord. 2011-10,
2-28-2011)
11-7F-3: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses shall be provided in accordance with section
11-5-9 of this title. (Ord. 76-36, 7-12-1976)
11-7F-4: SPECIAL USES:
Any use permitted in the R-1 single-family residence district. (Ord. 2011-10,
2-28-2011)
11-7F-5: LOT SIZE:
With the exception of planned residential developments (special use), a
separate ground area, herein called the "zoning lot", shall be designated,
provided and continuously maintained for each structure containing a permitted
use or special use and shall comply with the following minimum lot area
requirements: (Ord. 76-36, 7-12-1976)
   A.   Permitted Special Uses:
 
Uses                           Minimum Lot Area   Minimum Lot Width
Parks and playground buildings 60,000 square feet 150 feet
Schools                        30,000 square feet 150 feet
Single-family dwelling         9,000 square feet  70 feet
 
(Ord. 76-36, 7-12-1976; amd. Ord. 2011-10, 2-28-2011)
   B.   All Other Uses: All other uses, except public utilities, shall be
located on a lot having an area of not less than one hundred thousand (100,000)
square feet, with a minimum width of two hundred feet (200'). The minimum lot
area and lot width for public utilities shall be subject to approval by the
planning and zoning commission on a special use basis. (Ord. 76-36, 7-12-1976;
amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
11-7F-6: YARDS:
Minimum front yard, corner side yard, side yard and rear yard requirements for
each lot in an R-2B single-family residence district shall be as follows:
   A.   Minimum Front Yard:
      1.   Single-family dwelling: Thirty feet (30').
      2.   Schools: Fifty feet (50').
      3.   All other uses: Fifty feet (50').
   B.   Minimum Corner Side Yard:
      1.   Single-family dwelling: Thirty feet (30').
      2.   Schools: Fifty feet (50').
      3.   All other uses: Thirty five feet (35').
   C.   Minimum Side Yard:
      1.   Single-family dwelling: The two (2) side yards shall have a combined
width of eighteen feet (18'), and neither side yard shall be less than eight
feet (8').
      2.   Schools: Fifty feet (50').
      3.   All other uses: Eighty feet (80').
   D.   Minimum Rear Yard:
      1.   Single-family dwelling: Forty feet (40').
      2.   Schools: Eighty feet (80').
      3.   All other uses: Eighty feet (80'). (Ord. 76-36, 7-12-1976)
   E.   Yards Fronting Specific Streets: Notwithstanding the yard requirements
established in this section, the minimum front, side, or rear yard required for
all lots fronting Lake Street, Bloomingdale Road, Army Trail Road, Schmale
Road, and Gary Avenue shall be seventy five feet (75') for whichever yard(s) of
said lots fronts said streets. The minimum front, side, or rear yard required
for all lots fronting Schick Road shall be sixty feet (60') for whichever yard
(s) of said lots fronts said street. (Ord. 2007-20, 5-24-2007)
11-7F-7: BULK REGULATIONS:
Maximum structure height and floor area ratio for building structures on lots
in an R-2B single-family residence district shall be as follows:
   A.   Maximum Building Height: No building shall exceed thirty feet (30') in
height.
   B.   Floor Area Ratio:
      1.   Single-family dwelling: 0.30. (Ord. 76-36, 7-12-1976)
      2.   Planned development, residential: As specified by the planning and
zoning commission. (Ord. 76-36, 7-12-1976; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
      3.   All other uses: 0.30. (Ord. 76-36, 7-12-1976)
11-7F-8: DWELLING STANDARDS:
   A.   Every one-story dwelling shall have a total ground floor area of not
less than one thousand three hundred fifty (1,350) square feet, measured from
the outside of the exterior walls, including utility rooms but excluding
cellars, basements, open porches, breezeways, garages and other spaces that are
not used or intended to be used frequently or during extended periods for
living, eating or sleeping purposes.
   B.   Dwellings having more than one story shall have not less than eight
hundred (800) square feet on the ground floor and not less than one thousand
three hundred fifty (1,350) square feet for all floors, including utility rooms
but excluding cellars, basements, open porches, breezeways, garages and other
spaces that are not used frequently or during extended periods for living,
eating or sleeping purposes.
   C.   Split level dwellings shall not have less than one thousand three
hundred fifty (1,350) square feet, including utility rooms but excluding
cellars, basements, open porches, breezeways, garages and other spaces that are
not used frequently or during extended periods for living, eating or sleeping
purposes. (Ord. 76-36, 7-12-1976)
ARTICLE F1. R-2C SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-7F1-1: Site And Structure Requirements
11-7F1-2: Permitted Uses
11-7F1-3: Special Uses
11-7F1-4: Penalty
11-7F1-1: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: Lot area is to be not less than six thousand (6,000) square
feet.
   B.   Lot Width: Lot width is to be not less than sixty feet (60').
   C.   Minimum Floor Area Per Dwelling:
      1.   One-story dwellings: Not less than one thousand eight hundred
(1,800) square feet on the ground floor.
      2.   Dwellings having more than one story: Not less than one thousand
(1,000) square feet on the ground floor and not less than two thousand two
hundred (2,200) square feet for all floors.
   D.   Floor Area Ratio: Floor area ratio is not to exceed 0.5.
   E.   Building Height: Building height is not to exceed two and one- half
(21/2) stories or thirty feet (30'), whichever is lower.
   F.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: Front yard is not to be less than twenty feet (20') in
depth.
      2.   Side Yards:
         a.   Two (2) side yards having a combined width of ten feet (10') and
neither side yard less than five feet (5') in width.
         b.   A side yard abutting a street is not to be less than twenty feet
(20') wide.
      3.   Rear Yard: Rear yard is not to be less than twenty feet (20') in
depth.
      4.   Requirements For Specific Areas: Notwithstanding the yard
requirements established in this subsection, the minimum front, side, or rear
yard required for all lots fronting Lake Street, Bloomingdale Road, Army Trail
Road, Schmale Road, and Gary Avenue shall be seventy five feet (75') for
whichever yard(s) of said lots fronts said streets; the minimum front, side, or
rear yard required for all lots fronting Schick Road shall be sixty feet (60')
for whichever yard(s) of said lots fronts said street. (Ord. 2014-46, 10-27-
2014)
11-7F1-2: PERMITTED USES:
Uses permitted in the R-1 district. (Ord. 2014-46, 10-27-2014)
11-7F1-3: SPECIAL USES:
Special uses permitted in the R-1 district. (Ord. 2014-46, 10-27-2014)
11-7F1-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating the terms and conditions of this article shall, following
prior notice thereof by the village to such offending person and such
opportunity to correct such violation(s) as the village may determine
appropriate, be subject to a penalty not exceeding one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), with each and every day that such violation of this article is
allowed to remain in effect being deemed a complete and separate offense. In
addition, the appropriate authorities of the village may take such other
actions they deem proper to enforce the terms and conditions of this article,
including, without limitation, an action in equity to compel compliance with
its terms. Any person violating the terms of this article shall be subject, in
addition to the foregoing penalties, to the payment of court costs and
reasonable attorney fees of the village. (Ord. 2014-46, 10-27-2014)
ARTICLE G. R-3 GENERAL RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-7G-1: Site And Structure Requirements
11-7G-2: Permitted Uses
11-7G-3: Special Uses
11-7G-1: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area:
      1.   Single-family detached dwellings: Twelve thousand (12,000) square
feet.
      2.   Two-family detached dwellings: Eight thousand (8,000) square feet
per dwelling unit.
      3.   Two-family semidetached dwellings (duplex): Eight thousand (8,000)
square feet per dwelling unit.
      4.   Attached dwellings (group, row and town houses): Eight thousand
(8,000) square feet per dwelling unit.
   B.   Lot Width:
      1.   Not less than eighty feet (80') at the buildable area for single-
family detached or two-family detached dwellings.
      2.   Not less than ninety feet (90') for two-family semidetached and
attached dwellings and multiple-family dwellings.
   C.   Floor Area:
      1.   Single-family detached dwellings: Same as the R-2 district.
      2.   Two-family semidetached dwellings:
         a.   One-story dwellings: Not less than one thousand two hundred
(1,200) square feet on the ground floor of each dwelling unit.
         b.   Dwellings having more than one story: Not less than six hundred
(600) square feet on the ground floor and not less than one thousand two
hundred (1,200) square feet for all floors of each dwelling unit.
         c.   Split level dwellings: Not less than one thousand two hundred
(1,200) square feet on the first two (2) floors of living area, without
including, in the computation thereof, any living area below, or partially
below, ground level of each dwelling unit.
      3.   Two-family detached dwellings: Not less than one thousand two
hundred (1,200) square feet per each dwelling unit.
   D.   Floor Area Ratio: Floor area ratio not to exceed 0.4.
   E.   Building Height:
      1.   Building height not to exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories or
thirty feet (30'), whichever is lower. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
      2.   Building height of special uses shall not exceed three (3) stories
or thirty five feet (35'), whichever is lower, notwithstanding subsection E1 of
this section. (Ord. 75-2, 1-13-1975)
   F.   Yards: Yards are the same as in the R-2 district.
   G.   Efficiency Dwelling Units: Efficiency dwelling units are not permitted.
(Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
11-7G-2: PERMITTED USES:
Uses permitted in the R-1 district.
Attached dwellings: Maximum of three (3) bedrooms per dwelling unit.
Two-family detached and two-family semidetached dwellings: Maximum of three (3)
bedrooms per dwelling unit. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969; amd. 2012 Code)
11-7G-3: SPECIAL USES:
Uses permitted in the R-1 district.
Attached dwellings: One 4-bedroom unit for every ten (10) units.
Nursing homes. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969; amd. Ord. 75-2, 1-13-1975)
ARTICLE H. R-4 MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING RESIDENCE DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-7H-1: Site And Structure Requirements
11-7H-2: Permitted Uses
11-7H-3: Special Uses
11-7H-1: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: Multiple-family dwellings as follows:
      1.   Two (2) bedroom: Not less than two thousand eight hundred (2,800)
square feet.
      2.   One bedroom: Not less than two thousand six hundred (2,600) square
feet.
   B.   Lot Width: Lot width is to be not less than one hundred feet (100').
   C.   Minimum Floor Area:
      1.   Efficiency units (special use): Not less than five hundred (500)
square feet.
      2.   One bedroom: Not less than six hundred fifty (650) square feet.
      3.   Two (2) bedroom: Not less than eight hundred fifty (850) square
feet.
      4.   Three (3) bedroom (special use): Not less than one thousand fifty
(1,050) square feet.
   D.   Floor Area Ratio: Floor area ratio not to exceed 0.4.
   E.   Building Height:
      1.   Building height shall not exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories or
thirty feet (30'), whichever is lower. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
      2.   Building height for special uses shall not exceed six and one-half
(61/2) stories or sixty five feet (65'), whichever is lower, notwithstanding
subsection E1 of this section. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969; amd. 2012 Code)
   F.   Yards: Yards are the same as the R-2 district.
   G.   Efficiency Dwelling Units: Efficiency dwelling units are not permitted
except under special uses.
   H.   Spacing Between Buildings:
      1.   Not less than fifty feet (50') when any part of the front wall of a
dwelling is opposite the front wall or rear wall of the dwelling located on the
same lot or adjoining lot.
      2.   Not less than forty feet (40') when any part of the rear wall of a
dwelling is opposite the rear wall of the nearest dwelling located on the same
lot or an adjoining lot.
      3.   Not less than twenty feet (20') when any part of the side wall of a
dwelling is opposite the side wall of the nearest dwelling located on the same
lot or adjoining lot.
      4.   Not less than thirty feet (30') when any part of the side wall of
the dwelling is opposite the front or rear wall of the nearest dwelling located
on the same lot or adjoining lot.
      5.   In courts, a corner at the ends of a front or rear wall of a
dwelling that is located at the end of a court shall be at least twenty feet
(20') from the nearest corner of a front or rear wall of a dwelling forming the
side of the court.
   I.   Number Of Bedrooms: The number of bedrooms per dwelling unit allowable
shall not exceed two (2), except under special uses. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
11-7H-2: PERMITTED USES:
Same as the R-1 district, except no single-family dwellings.
Multiple-family dwellings, provided such dwellings contain five (5) or more
dwelling units. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
11-7H-3: SPECIAL USES:
Same as the R-1 district.
Efficiency units, the lot area of which shall not be less than two thousand
four hundred (2,400) square feet. One such efficiency unit shall be allowable
for each ten (10) units.
Three (3) bedroom dwelling units, the lot area of which shall not be less than
three thousand five hundred (3,500) square feet. One such three (3) bedroom
dwelling unit shall be allowable for each twenty (20) units. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-
1969)
ARTICLE I. R-5 MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING HIGH RISE DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-7I-1: General Conditions
11-7I-2: Permitted Special Uses
11-7I-3: Lot Size
11-7I-4: Yards
11-7I-5: Building Height
11-7I-6: Floor Area Ratio
11-7I-7: Minimum Floor Area
11-7I-1: GENERAL CONDITIONS:
   A.   Planned Developments By Special Use: No building or structure may be
erected or structurally altered in the R-5 district unless and until a special
use permit for a planned development has been granted therefor in accordance
with the provisions of chapter 18 of this title. The provisions of this article
shall not apply to the erection of buildings and structures or the structural
alteration thereof in a planned unit development district of 250 acres or more
governed by chapter 10, article B of this title. (Ord. 74-7, 2-13-1974)
   B.   Additional Standards Governing Granting Of Approval Of Special Use
Permit: In addition to the standards contained in chapter 18 of this title
concerning the approval of a special use permit for a planned development in
the R-5 district, the planning and zoning commission and village board shall be
guided by the following considerations: (Ord. 74-7, 2-13-1974; amd. Ord. 2014-
48, 10-27-2014)
      1.   The R-5 district is primarily intended for high density residential
areas that are adjacent to principal commercial centers and only where there
are existing or proposed utilities of adequate capacity.
      2.   There are adequate, existing or proposed community recreational
facilities to accommodate the number of persons reasonably expected to live in
the district and adjacent thereto, and where the existing or proposed street
system is or will be capable of handling not only the existing traffic but that
reasonably expected to be added by the proposed development. (Ord. 74-7, 2-13-
1974)
11-7I-2: PERMITTED SPECIAL USES:
Any use permitted in the R-4 district (including special uses permitted in the
R-4 district) may be a special use in the R-5 district. Any use permitted as a
special use in the R-3 district may be a special use in the R-5 district. (Ord.
74-7, 2-13-1974)
11-7I-3: LOT SIZE:
   A.   The minimum zoning lot shall be not less than one hundred feet (100')
wide at the front setback line and shall contain not less than ten thousand
(10,000) square feet, plus two thousand five hundred (2,500) square feet for
each dwelling unit in excess of eight (8) dwelling units. (Ord. 74-7, 2-13-
1974)
   B.   The planning and zoning commission may recommend approval of, and the
village board may approve, a planned development in this district in which one
or more lots: 1) do not meet the minimum width and area requirements set forth
in subsection A of this section; or 2) do not abut a public street; provided,
however, that the spacing of buildings in such planned development meets the
requirements of the planned unit development district of 250 acres or more,
pertaining to the residential use areas; and provided further, that the plan
provides that lots that do not abut a public street are connected thereto by a
private paved driveway and/or a paved parking area; and provided further, that
the plan requires the construction of such private driveways and private
parking areas to be in accordance with the village subdivision regulations.
(Ord. 74-7, 2-13-1974; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
11-7I-4: YARDS:
   A.   Yards shall be not less than the following:
      1.   Front yard: Sixty five feet (65') in depth.
      2.   Side yard: Fifty feet (50') in depth.
      3.   Rear yard: Sixty five feet (65') in depth.
   B.   The space contained in yards shall be open and unobstructed. (Ord. 74-
7, 2-13-1974)
   C.   The planning and zoning commission may recommend approval of, and the
village board may approve, a planned development in the R-5 district in which
the minimum yard building setback requirements set forth in subsection A of
this section are not met; provided, however, that the spacing of buildings in
such planned development meet the requirements of the planned unit development
district of 250 acres or more, pertaining to residential use areas. (Ord. 74-7,
2-13-1974; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
   D.   Notwithstanding the yard requirements established in this section, the
minimum front, side, or rear yard required for all lots fronting Lake Street,
Bloomingdale Road, Army Trail Road, Schmale Road, and Gary Avenue shall be
seventy five feet (75') for whichever yard(s) of said lots fronts said streets.
The minimum front, side, or rear yard required for all lots fronting Schick
Road shall be sixty feet (60') for whichever yard(s) of said lots fronts said
street. (Ord. 2007-20, 5-24-2007)
11-7I-5: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building or structure shall be erected or structurally altered in the R-
5 district in excess of twelve (12) stories or higher than one hundred thirty
feet (130'), whichever is lower. (Ord. 74-7, 2-13-1974)
11-7I-6: FLOOR AREA RATIO:
No building or structure shall be erected or structurally altered in the R-
5 district that has a floor area ratio in excess of 0.4. (Ord. 74-7, 2-13-1974)
11-7I-7: MINIMUM FLOOR AREA:
The minimum floor area of residential units shall be as follows:
   A.   Efficiency units: Five hundred (500) square feet.
   B.   One bedroom units: Seven hundred seventy five (775) square feet.
   C.   Two (2) bedroom units: One thousand fifty (1,050) square feet. (Ord.
74-7, 2-13-1974)
CHAPTER 8
BUSINESS DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL BUSINESS DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-8A-1: Purpose
11-8A-2: Allowable Use Of Land Or Buildings
11-8A-3: Permitted Uses
11-8A-4: Special Uses
11-8A-5: Accessory Uses
11-8A-6: Lot And Bulk Regulations
11-8A-7: Parking And Loading Requirements
11-8A-8: Stormwater Drainage And Entrance Curbs
11-8A-9: Performance Standards
11-8A-10: Additional Standards
11-8A-11: Signs
11-8A-12: Site Plan Approval
11-8A-1: PURPOSE:
The business districts set forth herein are established to protect the public
health, to promote public safety, comfort, convenience and the general welfare
and to protect the economic base of the village and the value of the property.
These general purposes include, among others, the following objectives:
   A.   To promote the most desirable use of land in accordance with a well
considered plan so that adequate space is provided in appropriate locations for
the various types of business uses, thereby protecting and strengthening the
economic base of the village.
   B.   To place in separate districts those businesses which may create noise,
odors, hazards, or unsightliness, or which may generate excessive traffic.
   C.   To permit selected business uses in districts adjacent to residential
areas where sufficient value or convenience to the residential area offsets the
disadvantages of the business use.
   D.   To encourage the grouping in appropriate locations of compatible
business uses which will tend to draw trade that is mutually interchangeable
and so promote public convenience and business prosperity and contribute to the
alleviation of traffic and pedestrian congestion by encouraging the use of a
common ingress and egress.
   E.   To promote the establishment of off street parking facilities,
permitted and required, so as to alleviate traffic congestion and so promote
shopping convenience and business prosperity.
   F.   To promote design appearance, style and construction of structures in
the business districts which will be essentially compatible with the
residential character of the village. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981)
11-8A-2: ALLOWABLE USE OF LAND OR BUILDINGS:
The following uses of land or buildings are allowed in the business districts
contained herein under the conditions specified in this title:
   A.   Uses lawfully established on the effective date hereof.
   B.   Permitted uses as designated for each business district.
   C.   Special uses. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981)
11-8A-3: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Permitted uses of land or buildings, as listed in this chapter, shall
be permitted in accord with the conditions specified. No building or zoning lot
shall be devoted to any use other than a use permitted in this chapter, and no
building or structure shall be erected, altered, enlarged, or occupied, except
as a permitted use in this chapter, in the zoning district in which such
building or zoning lot shall be located unless otherwise specifically allowed
by this chapter. Uses lawfully established on the effective date hereof and
rendered nonconforming by the provisions hereof shall be subject to the
regulations of chapter 12 of this title.
   B.   Uses permitted in the B-3 district include those listed in the B-2 and
B-1 districts. Uses listed in the B-2 district include those listed in the B-
1 District. Uses listed in the B-4 District do not include automatically those
permitted in the other districts. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981)
11-8A-4: SPECIAL USES:
   A.   It is recognized that there are certain uses which, because of their
unique characteristics, cannot be properly classified without consideration of
the impact, in each case, of these uses upon neighboring land and of the public
need for the particular use at the particular location. These uses fall into
two (2) categories:
      1.   Uses publicly operated or traditionally affected with a public
interest.
      2.   Private uses of such an unusual nature that their operation may give
rise to unique problems with respect to their impact upon neighboring property.
(Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981)
   B.   The special uses listed in each district may be permitted by the
adoption of an ordinance by the Village Board of Trustees granting a special
use permit upon receiving the recommendation of the Planning and Zoning
Commission. The procedures for requesting a special use permit are described in
section
11-3-4 of this title. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2014-48, 10-
27-2014)
11-8A-5: ACCESSORY USES:
   A.   Accessory uses include buildings or other structures customarily
incidental to and commonly associated with a permitted or special use. These
uses may be permitted, provided they are operated and maintained under the same
ownership and on the same lot as the permitted or special use and do not
include structures or structural features inconsistent with these uses and do
not involve the conduct of any business, profession, trade or industry.
   B.   A further discussion on, and the standards for accessory buildings and
uses, are described in section
11-5-9 of this title. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981)
11-8A-6: LOT AND BULK REGULATIONS:
With the exception of planned developments, lot and bulk regulations shall be
as set forth under each specific business district contained herein. (Ord. 81-
49, 11-9-1981)
11-8A-7: PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS:
Off street parking and loading facilities shall be provided as required in
chapter 13 of this title and other sections of this title, as applicable. (Ord.
81-49, 11-9-1981)
11-8A-8: STORMWATER DRAINAGE AND ENTRANCE CURBS:
Storm drainage and entrance curbs are required on all street frontages and
shall meet the approval of the Village Engineer and be in accordance with
Village ordinances. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-
13-2017)
11-8A-9: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
All activities shall conform with the performance standards established for the
M-1 Limited Manufacturing District except where otherwise stated. These
standards are presented in section
11-9-7 of this title. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981)
11-8A-10: ADDITIONAL STANDARDS:
The following standards shall apply to all business districts.
   A.   All business shall be retail, wholesale, service or office
establishments dealing directly with the consumer.
   B.   All business, service, storage, merchandise display and processing
shall be conducted entirely within an enclosed building with the exception of
off street parking or loading, automotive service stations, open sales lots,
and outdoor amusement and recreation areas in districts where they are
permitted. There shall be no storage or overnight parking at gas stations with
the exception of vehicles under active repair but not to exceed four (4)
vehicles.
   C.   Except in the case of a planned development, only one principal
structure will be allowed on any subdivided lot, and no principal structure
shall be constructed across a subdivision lot line.
   D.   Additional special provisions are contained in each of the individual
district regulations. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981)
11-8A-11: SIGNS:
Signs shall be subject to the regulations contained in chapter 14 of this
title. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981)
11-8A-12: SITE PLAN APPROVAL:
Site plan approval shall be as provided in chapter 4 of this title. (Ord. 81-
49, 11-9-1981)
ARTICLE B. B-1 NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-8B-1: Purpose
11-8B-2: Permitted Uses
11-8B-3: Accessory Uses
11-8B-4: Special Uses
11-8B-5: Temporary Uses
11-8B-6: Lot Size
11-8B-7: Yards
11-8B-8: Bulk Regulations
11-8B-9: Special Provisions
11-8B-1: PURPOSE:
The B-1 neighborhood business district is intended to provide areas to be used
by retail or service establishments to supply convenience goods or personal
services for the daily needs of the residents living in adjacent residential
neighborhoods. This district is normally located on secondary thoroughfares, is
relatively small in size, not to exceed two (2) acres, and has bulk standards
that are compatible with the bulk standards for low to medium density
residential districts. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981)
11-8B-2: PERMITTED USES:
Personal service establishments:
Barbershop.
Dancing school or studio.
Locksmith.
Music school with sales of musical instruments and accessory items.
Photographic studio, including developing and printing as part of the retail
business.
Salon. In addition to customary hairstyling, facial, manicure and pedicure
services, a salon may include a single therapeutic massage station conducted as
accessory to the larger salon operation. The amount of floor area devoted to
therapeutic massage shall not exceed thirty five percent (35%) of the total
floor area of the salon. Customer changing may be located within the massage
treatment room. Hand washing sinks may be located outside of the changing room.
Compliance with all other massage establishment restrictions in this code,
stand alone ordinances and state and local licensing procedures is required.
Shoe repair shop.
Tailor, hat and clothes repair or dressmaker shop.
Retail businesses:
Art and school supply store.
Bakery, in which the manufacture of goods is limited to goods retailed on the
premises only.
Bicycle store; sales, retail or repair.
Book and stationery store.
Candy and confectionery store.
Coin, philatelic, stamp and numismatic store.
Dairy products store.
Delicatessen.
Drugstore; pharmacy.
Dry cleaning and laundry receiving establishment, processing to be done
elsewhere.
Flower shop.
Gift shop.
Grocery and food store.
Hobby shop.
Ice cream store. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-
2013)
11-8B-3: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of section
11-5-9 of this title. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981)
11-8B-4: SPECIAL USES:
Clubs and lodges; private, fraternal or religious (no live entertainment or
dancing).
Convalescent center, nursing home, geriatric center and rest home.
Essential services: gas regulator station, telephone exchange, electric
substation, pumping station, well site.
Library and branch library.
Nursery school, children's day school, day nursery, childcare center, and
daycare center, provided at least one hundred fifty (150) square feet of
outdoor play area is provided for each child that is cared for.
Outdoor dining area with available seating for not more than eight (8)
individuals; provided, however, all applicable village health and safety
ordinances shall apply to all outdoor dining areas regardless of seating
capacity.
Planned unit development as defined in chapter 10, article A of this title.
Police-fire station.
Transit and transportation passenger shelter.
Similar and compatible uses to those listed as permitted for special uses.
(Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981; amd. Ord. 97-51, 9-22-1997; Ord. 2007-20, 5-24-2007;
Ord. 2008-14, 3-24-2008)
11-8B-5: TEMPORARY USES:
Temporary building for construction purposes, for a period not to exceed the
duration of such construction. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981)
11-8B-6: LOT SIZE:
With the exception of planned unit developments, a separate ground area, herein
called the "zoning lot", shall be designated, provided and continuously
maintained for each structure containing a permitted use or special use.
   A.   Minimum lot area: Twenty thousand (20,000) square feet.
   B.   Minimum lot width: One hundred feet (100'). (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981)
11-8B-7: YARDS:
Minimum yard requirements for each lot in the B-1 district shall be as follows:
   A.   Minimum Front Yard:
      1.   All structures shall maintain a setback of not less than fifty feet
(50') from the front lot line, with the exception of Lake Street, Gary Avenue,
Bloomingdale Road, Schick Road and Army Trail Road. On Lake Street, Gary
Avenue, Bloomingdale Road, Schick Road, and Army Trail Road, all structures
shall maintain a minimum setback of seventy five feet (75') from the front lot
line.
      2.   The first thirty feet (30') of all front yards shall be devoted to
landscape materials such as sod, trees, a means of ingress and egress, signs,
and obstructions as permitted by other provisions of this title.
   B.   Minimum Corner Side Yard: Forty feet (40').
   C.   Minimum Interior Side Yard: Twenty feet (20') combined, with one side
not less than twelve feet (12').
   D.   Minimum Rear Yard: Thirty feet (30'). (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981)
   E.   Transition Yards: Where a side or rear lot line in the B-1 district
coincides with a side or rear lot line of a residential district, the minimum
yard requirement will be the greater of the B-1 district yard requirement or
the applicable residential district yard requirement. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981;
amd. 2012 Code)
11-8B-8: BULK REGULATIONS:
   A.   Maximum structure height: Thirty feet (30') or two (2) stories,
whichever is less.
   B.   Floor area ratio: 0.6. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981)
11-8B-9: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Enclosure Of Operations: All business, servicing or processing shall be
conducted within completely enclosed buildings, except:
      1.   Off street parking or loading.
      2.   Accessory uses when allowed by the special use procedure.
   B.   Scope Of Operations: All business establishments shall be retail trade
or service establishments dealing directly with consumers, and all goods
produced on the premises shall be sold primarily at retail on the premises
where produced. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981; amd. Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990)
ARTICLE C. B-2 COMMUNITY BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-8C-1: Purpose
11-8C-2: Permitted Uses
11-8C-3: Accessory Uses
11-8C-4: Special Uses
11-8C-5: Temporary Uses
11-8C-6: Lot Size
11-8C-7: Yards
11-8C-8: Bulk Regulations
11-8C-9: Special Provisions
11-8C-1: PURPOSE:
The B-2 community business district is intended to provide areas to be used as
the primary shopping area for residents of the village and other nearby towns,
transients, and for the shopping area for occupants of various business and
manufacturing establishments. This district permits most all types of business
and commercial enterprises, offices, and service establishments. This district
is normally centrally located with respect to the shopping service area and
located at the convergence or along the major thoroughfares of the village.
(Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981)
11-8C-2: PERMITTED USES:
Business service establishments:
Banks.
Better business bureau.
Business and management consultant.
Business office.
Business school.
Chamber of commerce.
Charitable organization.
Civic association.
Credit agency.
Currency exchange.
Detective agency.
Employment agency.
Financial institution.
Insurance agency.
Investment company.
Labor union and organization.
Loan company.
Merchants' association.
News syndicate.
Newspaper office, not including printing.
Outdoor dining, complying with the following conditions:
   A.   The seating area consists of twenty-four (24) seats or less;
   B.   The property is not adjacent to a residential use or development;
   C.   There is no live entertainment, music on speakers, or video screens on
the outdoor patio;
   D.   A railing is added to protect diners from vehicular traffic. The
building and zoning official may waive this requirement if, in his discretion,
the proposed seating is not adjacent to, or endangered by, vehicular traffic;
   E.   At least one accessible seat is provided;
   F.   Screening, either a landscaped area with plantings or containers
(planters), shall be added to buffer the area;
   G.   No signage, not otherwise permitted in chapter 14 of this title, is
added;
   H.   No lighting is added that will create light trespass on any residential
properties.
Parking lot, commercial.
Picture framing conducted for retail trade.
Political organization.
Professional membership association.
Real estate office.
Savings and loan.
Security and commodity broker.
Social service and fraternal association.
Trade association.
Personal service establishments:
Personal service establishments permitted in the B-1 district.
Business school.
Clothing and costume rental store.
Dry cleaning, employing not more than five (5) persons and where equipment for
dry cleaning does not exceed units of thirty (30) pounds' capacity.
General minor repair or fix it shop.
Hearing aid store.
Interior decorating studio including upholstery and making of draperies,
slipcovers and other similar articles when conducted as a secondary activity to
the principal use.
Travel bureau and transportation ticket office.
Professional office establishments:
Accounting, auditing, and bookkeeping.
Artists and industrial design studio.
Attorney and law office.
Chiropodist office and podiatrist office.
Chiropractor office.
Dentist office.
Doctor, surgeon and/or physician office.
Engineering and architectural service.
Laboratory; medical and dental.
Land surveyor.
Landscape architect.
Medical and dental clinic.
Optician office.
Osteopath office.
Professional consultant.
Scientific research agency.
Retail business, which supplies commodities on the premises:
Retail business permitted in the B-1 district.
Apparel store, including clothing, coats, millinery and footwear items.
Appliance store.
Art gallery.
Business machines store.
Butcher shop.
Catalog store.
China and glassware store.
Department store.
Drapery store.
Drugstore.
Floor covering, including rugs, linoleum and carpets.
Furniture store, including upholstering when conducted as part of the retail
operation and secondary to the principal use.
Furrier shop, including the incidental storage and conditioning of furs.
Leather goods and luggage store.
Music shop.
Office supplies and stationery.
Paint and wallpaper store.
Pet shop.
Restaurant, excluding drive-in services (no live entertainment or dancing).
Restricted production and repair for retail sales limited to the following: art
needlework, clothing, custom manufacturing and alterations, jewelry from
precious metals and watches.
Sewing machine sales and service.
Sporting goods store.
Tack shop.
Tile store (wall or floor).
Toy store.
Trading stamp store.
Variety and notions store. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981; amd. Ord. 97-51, 9-22-1997;
Ord. 2011-10, 2-28-2011; Ord. 2022-41, 10-10-2022; Ord. 2024-09, 2-26-2024)
11-8C-3: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of section
11-5-9 of this title. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981)
11-8C-4: SPECIAL USES:
Special uses allowed in the B-1 district.
Clubs, lodges, and restaurants with live entertainment and dancing.
Game rooms employing amusement devices commonly known as pinball machines,
shuffleboards, bowling machines, and coin operated games of skill, but shall
not include regulation bowling alleys or pool or billiard tables.
Massage establishments.
Meeting hall.
Off street parking facility as a principal use on a zoning lot, provided the
parking lot is part of an overall planned development, and is constructed to
serve one or more principal uses in the same planned development.
Outdoor seating in excess of twenty-four (24) seats or otherwise not consistent
with the conditions set forth in Section
11-8C-2 of this code.
Package liquor store.
Planned unit development, as defined in chapter 18 of this title.
Professional office (other than those listed in section
11-8C-2 of this article, entry reading "Professional office establishments").
Theater, indoor only.
United States post office.
Similar and compatible uses to those listed as permitted or special uses. (Ord.
81-49, 11-9-1981; amd. Ord. 85-43, 12-9-1985; Ord. 95-12, 2-13-1995; Ord. 2007-
20, 5-24-2007; Ord. 2012-27, 6-11-2012; Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014; Ord. 2015-49,
11-23-2015; Ord. 2022-41, 10-10-2022)
11-8C-5: TEMPORARY USES:
Temporary building for construction purposes, for a period not to exceed the
duration of such construction. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981)
11-8C-6: LOT SIZE:
With the exception of planned developments, a separate ground area, herein
called the "zoning lot", shall be designated, provided and continuously
maintained for each structure containing a permitted use or special use.
   A.   Minimum lot area: Thirty thousand (30,000) square feet.
   B.   Minimum lot width: One hundred feet (100'). (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981)
11-8C-7: YARDS:
   A.   Minimum Front Yard:
      1.   All structures shall maintain a setback of not less than fifty feet
(50') from the front lot line, with the exception of Lake Street, Gary Avenue,
Bloomingdale Road, Schick Road and Army Trail Road. On Lake Street, Gary
Avenue, Bloomingdale Road, Schick Road, and Army Trail Road, all structures
shall maintain a minimum setback of seventy five feet (75') from the front lot
line.
      2.   The first thirty feet (30') of all front yards shall be devoted to
landscape materials such as sod, trees, a means of ingress and egress, signs,
and obstructions as permitted by other provisions of this title.
   B.   Minimum Corner Side Yard: Forty feet (40').
   C.   Minimum Interior Side Yard: Twenty feet (20') combined (with 1 side at
least 12 feet).
   D.   Minimum Rear Yard: Thirty feet (30').
   E.   Transition Yards: Where a side or rear lot line in the B-2 district
coincides with a side or rear lot line in an adjacent residential district, the
respective yard requirements of the residential district shall apply to the
side or rear yard requirements of the B-2 district. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981)
11-8C-8: BULK REGULATIONS:
   A.   Maximum structure height: Thirty feet (30') or two (2) stories,
whichever is less.
   B.   Floor area ratio: 0.6. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981)
11-8C-9: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Enclosure Of Operations: All business, servicing or processing shall be
conducted within completely enclosed buildings, except:
      1.   Off street parking or loading.
      2.   Accessory uses when allowed by the special use procedure.
   B.   Scope Of Operations: All business establishments shall be retail trade
or service establishments dealing directly with consumers, and all goods
produced on the premises shall be sold primarily at retail on the premises
where produced. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981; amd. Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990)
ARTICLE D. B-3 GENERAL SERVICE BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-8D-1: Purpose
11-8D-2: Permitted Uses
11-8D-3: Accessory Uses
11-8D-4: Special Uses
11-8D-5: Temporary Uses
11-8D-6: Lot Size
11-8D-7: Yards
11-8D-8: Bulk Regulations
11-8D-9: Special Provisions
11-8D-1: PURPOSE:
The B-3 general service business district is intended to provide areas to be
used for most types of retailing and service uses, certain wholesale and
warehousing uses, and some limited industrial activities that are normally
associated with business uses. The uses allowed are often large space uses and
cater to customers who do not make frequent purchases. The market area for the
permitted uses extends to an area much larger than the village. This district
is normally located along major thoroughfares where adequately sized parcels of
land allow for large setbacks, clear vision, and safe ingress and egress. (Ord.
81-49, 11-9-1981)
11-8D-2: PERMITTED USES:
Those uses of land and buildings identified as permitted uses within the B-
2 community business district and B-1 neighborhood business district.
Business service establishments:
Blueprint and photocopy establishment.
Electrical shop and supply shop.
Equipment and appliance repair shop.
Equipment rental and leasing service.
Exterminating service.
Frozen food locker.
Furnace supply and service.
Furniture repair and upholstery.
Greenhouse; retail sales.
Lawn mower repair shop.
Mail order service shop.
Milk machine sales.
Paint shop.
Plumbing and heating showroom and shop.
Refrigeration shop (service and repair).
Sewer cleaning and rodding service.
Sign contractor, no outside storage.
Swimming clubs and pools.
Swimming pool sales and service.
Taxidermist.
Water softener service.
Window cleaning firm.
Personal service establishments:
Museum.
Recreation building such as ice and roller skating, including community center.
Professional office establishments:
Offices ancillary to any of the uses permitted or allowed in this district.
Retail business:
Building services and supplies, not including outside storage.
Casket and casket supplies.
Catering establishment.
Direct selling establishment, where products are stored.
Farm and garden supply store.
Hay, grain and seed store.
Job printing shops, using presses having beds of not more than fourteen inches
by twenty inches (14" x 20") (size).
Nursery retail sales.
Orthopedic and medical appliance store, but not including the assembly or
manufacture of such articles.
Recording studio.
Tombstone and monument sales. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981; amd. Ord. 2008-14, 3-24-
2008)
11-8D-3: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of section
11-5-9 of this title. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981)
11-8D-4: SPECIAL USES:
Special uses allowed in the B-2 district.
Billiard and pool hall.
Bowling alley.
Drive-through uses.
Gymnasium.
Hotel, including dining and meeting rooms.
Indoor climate-controlled facility.
Indoor skating rink and other recreational facility.
Lumberyard.
Motel.
Outdoor amusement establishment; trampoline center, miniature golf course,
kiddy park, etc.
Outdoor display lot for display and sales of goods, fixtures and equipment of
swimming pools and related accessories, said display and sales to be in
conjunction with and part of the adjacent business use.
Pet adoption service accessory to a pet store.
Planned unit development, as defined in chapter 18 of this title.
Resale establishment, subject to the following:
   A.   All sales of merchandise permitted hereunder shall be conducted
entirely from within a retail space not less than fifteen thousand (15,000)
square feet in area;
   B.   All buildings used for the sale of merchandise permitted hereunder
shall include separate entrances for retail customers and persons delivering
previously owned merchandise to the establishment;
   C.   All deliveries of merchandise to a building used for the sale of
merchandise as permitted hereunder shall be made in person to an employee of
the establishment during such hours as the establishment is open to the general
public; and
   D.   The use of unattended containers, receptacles, depositories, boxes or
like devices for the receipt or collection of merchandise to be sold as
contemplated hereunder shall be prohibited.
Roadside stand.
Sheet metal fabrication in accordance with the following terms and conditions:
   A.   That the use shall be part of a planned unit development of not less
than four (4) acres.
   B.   That not less than sixty six percent (66%) of the subject property be
devoted to open space, exclusive of off street parking.
   C.   That development shall take place in accordance with a site plan and
landscape plan approved by the village board and incorporated into the planned
unit development ordinance.
   D.   That all fabrication shall take place within enclosed buildings.
   E.   That loading and unloading of trucks shall take place within enclosed
buildings.
   F.   That all performance standards shall be in keeping with those set forth
in the ordinances of the village including, without limitation, chapter 9 of
this title.
   G.   That no fabrication of sheet metal may take place closer than one
hundred forty feet (140') to any residential property.
   H.   That fabrication is limited to the storage, cutting, shaping and
assembling of metal for later off site installation. No raw material shall be
processed into metal.
   I.   That a building permit shall be obtained and construction begun within
one year from the date of granting the special use, and that construction shall
be completed and a certificate of occupancy issued within three (3) years from
the granting of the special use.
Tavern and cocktail lounge.
Testing laboratory.
Tire, battery, and accessory dealer.
Veterinary clinic, animal hospital. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981; amd. Ord. 84-9, 4-
9-1984; Ord. 84-51, 9-24-1984; Ord. 2007-20, 5-24-2007; Ord. 2011-10, 2-28-
2011; Ord. 2011-34, 9-12-2011; Ord. 2014-26, 6-9-2014; Ord. 2015-30, 6-22-2015;
Ord. 2022-41, 10-10-2022)
11-8D-5: TEMPORARY USES:
Temporary building for construction purposes, for a period not to exceed the
duration of such construction. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981)
11-8D-6: LOT SIZE:
With the exception of planned developments, a separate ground area, herein
called the "zoning lot", shall be designated, provided and continuously
maintained for each structure containing a permitted use or special use.
   A.   Minimum lot area: Forty thousand (40,000) square feet.
   B.   Minimum lot width: One hundred twenty five feet (125'). (Ord. 81-49,
11-9-1981)
11-8D-7: YARDS:
   A.   Minimum front yard:
      1.   All structures shall maintain a setback of not less than fifty feet
(50') from the front lot line, with the exception of Lake Street, Gary Avenue,
Bloomingdale Road, Schick Road and Army Trail Road. On Lake Street, Gary
Avenue, Bloomingdale Road, Schick Road, and Army Trail Road, all structures
shall maintain a minimum setback of seventy five feet (75') from the front lot
line.
      2.   The first thirty feet (30') of all front yards shall be devoted to
landscape materials such as sod, trees, a means of ingress and egress, signs,
and obstructions as permitted by other provisions of this title.
   B.   Minimum corner side yard: Fifty feet (50').
   C.   Minimum interior side yard: Thirty feet (30') (with 1 side at least 12
feet).
   D.   Minimum rear yard: Forty feet (40').
   E.   Transition yards: Where a side or rear lot line in the B-3 district
coincides with a side or rear lot line in an adjacent residential district, the
respective yard requirements of the residential district shall apply to the
side or rear yard requirements of the B-3 district. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981)
11-8D-8: BULK REGULATIONS:
   A.   Maximum structure height: Thirty five feet (35') or three (3) stories,
whichever is less.
   B.   Floor area ratio: 0.8. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981)
11-8D-9: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Outdoor Sales: All outdoor sales space shall be provided with a
permanent, durable, and dustless surface, and shall be graded and drained as to
dispose of all surface water.
   B.   Outdoor Storage: All outdoor storage facilities for accessory uses and
products shall be enclosed by a fence, wall or plant materials adequate to
conceal such facilities from adjacent properties and the public right of way.
   C.   Waste Materials: No material or wastes shall be deposited upon a lot in
such a form that they may be transferred off the property by natural causes or
forces. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981; amd. Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990)
ARTICLE E. B-4 AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-8E-1: Purpose
11-8E-2: Permitted Uses
11-8E-3: Accessory Uses
11-8E-4: Special Uses
11-8E-5: Temporary Uses
11-8E-6: Lot Size
11-8E-7: Yards
11-8E-8: Bulk Regulations
11-8E-9: Special Provisions
11-8E-1: PURPOSE:
The B-4 automotive service business district is intended to provide certain
land and structures for automotive service type use and automotive associated
uses such as drive-ins. This district is intended to be located only along
major thoroughfares where adequately sized and properly located parcels of land
will allow for adequate setbacks, clear vision, and safe ingress and egress.
Frontage roads should be provided where possible. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981)
11-8E-2: PERMITTED USES:
Personal service establishments which perform services on the premises:
Drive-in cleaners.
Drive-in theater.
Undertaking establishment and funeral parlor.
Retail businesses which supply commodities on the premises:
Boat dealer.
Bottled gas dealer.
Camper sale.
Mobile home dealer.
Motor vehicle dealer.
Motorcycle sales.
Recreation vehicle sale or rental.
Restaurant, drive-in.
Snowmobile sales and service.
Tire, battery, and accessory dealer.
Trailer sale or rental.
Used car lot. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981)
11-8E-3: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses shall be provided in accordance with the provisions of section
11-5-9 of this title. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981)
11-8E-4: SPECIAL USES:
Ambulance service.
Amusement establishment, dance hall, skating rink.
Auction room.
Automobile accessory store.
Automobile car wash.
Automobile repair garage.
Automobile service station.
Contractor and construction office.
Essential services: gas regulator station, telephone exchange, electric
substation, pumping station, sewage disposal plant, well site.
Library and branch library.
Motel.
Off street parking facility.
Open sales lot.
Planned unit development.
Police-fire station.
Post office and post office substation.
Public service or municipal garage.
Public utility establishment.
Radio and television broadcasting studio.
Reservoir.
Storage yard for material or equipment sales.
Transit and transportation facility.
Similar and compatible uses to those listed as permitted or special uses. (Ord.
81-49, 11-9-1981)
11-8E-5: TEMPORARY USES:
Temporary building for construction purposes, for a period not to exceed the
duration of such construction. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981)
11-8E-6: LOT SIZE:
With the exception of planned developments, a separate ground area, herein
called the "zoning lot", shall be designated, provided and continuously
maintained for each structure containing a permitted use or a special use.
   A.   Minimum lot area: Forty thousand (40,000) square feet.
   B.   Minimum lot width: One hundred twenty five feet (125'). (Ord. 81-49,
11-9-1981)
11-8E-7: YARDS:
   A.   Minimum Front Yard:
      1.   All structures shall maintain a setback of not less than fifty feet
(50') from the front lot line, with the exception of Lake Street, Gary Avenue,
Bloomingdale Road, Schick Road and Army Trail Road. On Lake Street, Gary
Avenue, Bloomingdale Road, Schick Road, and Army Trail Road, all structures
shall maintain a minimum setback of seventy five feet (75') from the front lot
line.
      2.   The first thirty feet (30') of all front yards shall be devoted to
landscape materials such as sod, trees, a means of ingress and egress, signs,
and obstructions as permitted by other provisions of this title.
   B.   Minimum Corner Side Yard: Fifty feet (50').
   C.   Minimum Interior Side Yard: Thirty feet (30') (with 1 side at least 12
feet).
   D.   Minimum Rear Yard: Forty feet (40').
   E.   Transition Yards: Where a side or rear lot line in the B-4 district
coincides with a side or rear lot line in an adjacent residential district, the
respective yard requirements of the residential district shall apply to the
side or rear yard requirements of the B-4 district. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981)
11-8E-8: BULK REGULATIONS:
   A.   Maximum structure height: Thirty five feet (35') or three (3) stories,
whichever is less.
   B.   Floor area ratio: 0.8. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981)
11-8E-9: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Outdoor Sales: All outdoor sales space shall be provided with a
permanent, durable, and dustless surface, and shall be graded and drained as to
dispose of all surface water.
   B.   Outdoor Storage: All outdoor storage facilities for accessory uses and
products shall be enclosed by a fence, wall or plant materials adequate to
conceal such facilities from adjacent properties and the public rights of way.
   C.   Waste Materials: No materials or wastes shall be deposited upon a lot
in such a form that they may be transferred off the property by natural causes
or forces. (Ord. 81-49, 11-9-1981; amd. Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990)
ARTICLE F. O-D OFFICE DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-8F-1: Purpose
11-8F-2: Permitted Uses
11-8F-3: Accessory Uses
11-8F-4: Special Uses
11-8F-5: Site And Structure Requirements
11-8F-6: Standards
11-8F-7: Screening And Landscaping
11-8F-1: PURPOSE:
The O-D office district is intended to provide office space for uses which do
not require any form of research or industrial operations on the premises. The
uses permitted are characterized by a low volume of traffic and limited outdoor
advertising so as to protect any surrounding residential uses. This district
may be used as a buffer between residential and commercial areas. (Ord. 77-21,
4-11-1977)
11-8F-2: PERMITTED USES:
Accounting, auditing and bookkeeping services.
Artists and industrial designers.
Attorney and law offices.
Better business bureau.
Business and management consultants.
Business office in which goods, wares or merchandise are displayed or sold on
the premises.
Chamber of commerce.
Charitable organizations.
Chiropodist offices.
Chiropractor offices.
Civic associations.
Clubs, private (nonprofit) lodges and fraternal organizations.
Credit agencies.
Dentist offices.
Detective agencies.
Doctor, surgeon and/or physician offices.
Employment agencies.
Engineering and architectural services.
Financial institutions.
Insurance agencies.
Investment companies.
Labor unions and organizations.
Laboratories, medical and dental.
Land surveyors.
Landscape architectural services.
Loan companies.
Medical and dental clinics.
Merchant associations.
News syndicates.
Newspaper offices.
Offices, business and professional.
Optician offices.
Osteopath offices.
Political organizations.
Private clinics.
Professional consultants.
Professional membership associations.
Real estate boards.
Real estate offices.
Religious reading rooms.
Scientific research agencies.
Secretarial service.
Security and commodity brokers.
Ticket agencies (amusement).
Trade associations.
Travel bureaus and transportation ticket offices. (Ord. 77-21, 4-11-1977; amd.
Ord. 2008-14, 3-24-2008)
11-8F-3: ACCESSORY USES:
Accessory uses shall be provided in accordance with the regulations contained
in section
11-5-9 of this title. (Ord. 77-21, 4-11-1977)
11-8F-4: SPECIAL USES:
Special uses, as hereinafter listed, may be allowed subject to the provisions
of sections
11-3-4 and
11-5-10 of this title. Unless otherwise specifically set forth, wherever a
special use is named as a major category, it shall be deemed to include all and
only those itemized uses listed under the said major category. The following
special uses are permitted:
Churches, chapels, temples, synagogues.
Drive-through uses accessory to permitted and special uses.
Health, medical and care institutions:
Convalescent centers, nursing homes, geriatric centers and rest homes.
Nursery schools, children's day school, day nurseries, childcare centers, and
daycare centers, provided at least one hundred fifty (150) square feet of
outdoor play area is provided for each child that is cared for.
Public, quasi-public and governmental building and facilities:
Essential services: gas regulator stations, telephone exchanges, electric
substations.
Historical buildings and landmarks.
Public libraries.
Telephone booths.
Public utility and service uses:
Convention halls and centers.
Fire stations.
Planned unit developments.
Police stations.
Railroad right of way, but not including railroad yards and shops other than
for passenger purposes.
Telephone transmission equipment buildings and microwave relay towers.
Waterworks, reservoirs, pumping stations and filtration plants.
Recreational and social facilities:
Community center buildings, clubhouses, recreation buildings, swim clubs,
swimming pools and indoor pools, tennis clubs, tennis courts, and buildings for
indoor tennis.
Parks.
Residential uses:
Hotel/apartment hotel.
Residence of the proprietor of a commercial use.
Similar and compatible use to those allowed as permitted uses in this district.
(Ord. 77-21, 4-11-1977; amd. Ord. 2008-14, 3-24-2008; 2012 Code; Ord. 2015-11,
1-26-2015)
11-8F-5: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Lot Area: The minimum lot area of forty thousand (40,000)
square feet shall be provided.
   B.   Minimum Lot Width: A minimum lot width of one hundred fifty feet (150')
shall be provided for each lot used for a permitted or special use.
   C.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: All structures shall be set back from the front lot line
at least seventy feet (70'), with parking permitted after thirty feet (30') of
landscaped area from the front of the lot line.
      2.   Interior Side Yard (Adjacent To Zoning Lot): All structures shall be
set in from the side lot line a distance of not less than fifteen feet (15') or
one-half (1/2) the height of the structure, whichever is greater, as defined in
this title.
      3.   Corner Side Yard (Adjacent To Street): All structures shall be set
in from the side lot line adjacent to the street right of way a distance of not
less than seventy feet (70').
      4.   Rear Yard: All structures shall be set back from the rear lot line a
distance of not less than twenty feet (20') or one- half (1/2) the height of
the structure, whichever is greater, as defined in this title.
   D.   Floor Area Ratio: The maximum floor area ratio shall be 1.0. (Ord. 77-
21, 4-11-1977)
11-8F-6: STANDARDS:
All of the property located in the O-D district is subject to the general
standards and regulations of this title. To conserve space, these standards and
regulations have not been reprinted in the regulations for each district.
Property located in the O-D district is also subject to the following
additional standards:
   A.   All operations, activities and storage shall be conducted wholly inside
a building or buildings.
   B.   No retail sales or services shall be permitted except as incidental or
accessory to a permitted use.
   C.   Service and maintenance of vehicles shall be permitted only such as is
necessary to the conduct of a permitted use.
   D.   Exterior lighting fixtures shall be shaded wherever necessary to avoid
casting excessive glare upon adjacent property.
   E.   All premises shall be furnished with all weather, hard surface walks
and, except for parking areas, the grounds shall be landscaped.
   F.   If the lot adjoins a lot containing a residential building, screening
shall be provided at the lot line sufficient to protect, on a year round basis,
the privacy of the adjoining residential uses.
   G.   Site plan and architectural approval shall be required for all uses
except public and quasi-public uses. (Ord. 77-21, 4-11-1977; amd. 2012 Code)
11-8F-7: SCREENING AND LANDSCAPING:
   A.   The entire site shall be adequately and attractively landscaped in
accord with plans prepared by a professional landscape designer, and shall be
subject to approval by the planning and zoning commission. (Ord. 77-21, 4-11-
1977; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
   B.   When the proposed office use abuts a street, the initial thirty feet
(30') of setback from the right of way shall be landscaped in accordance with a
landscape plan. Parking shall not be permitted within the thirty foot (30')
front yard landscaped strip. (Ord. 77-21, 4-11-1977)
ARTICLE G. R-R HOTEL-MOTEL RESORT AND RECREATIONAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-8G-1: General Requirements
11-8G-2: Site And Structure Requirements
11-8G-3: Permitted Uses
11-8G-4: Special Uses
11-8G-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The R-R hotel-motel resort and recreational district shall be
established only for parcels of land in excess of thirty (30) acres and under
single ownership or unified control. The requirements of this title shall be
applied to the entire parcel under single ownership or unified control without
regard to zoning lots, and such a parcel with the classification hotel-motel
resort and recreational district is hereinafter referred to as a "tract".
   B.   All activities conducted in a hotel-motel resort and recreational
district shall comply with the performance standards for noise, smoke and
particulate matter, toxic or noxious matter, odors, fire and explosion hazard,
glare or heat and vibration set forth in section
11-9-7 of this title. No certification of adherence to these standards shall be
required as a prerequisite to the issuance of a building permit in this
district unless a use specified in section
11-9-7 of this title is to be conducted in the building. (Ord. 76-57, 9-13-
1976)
11-8G-2: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Coverage: Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of the tract, net
of all roads and highways, shall be covered by buildings.
   B.   Floor Area Ratio: Floor area ratio is not to exceed 1.0.
   C.   Building Height: Building height is not to exceed one hundred feet
(100').
   D.   Yards:
      1.   Front yards shall not be less than sixty feet (60') in depth.
      2.   Side and rear yards shall not be less than thirty five feet (35').
      3.   The minimum distance between the nearest exterior wall of any
building and a boundary line of the tract shall be one- half (1/2) the building
height or a minimum of thirty five feet (35'), whichever is greater.
      4.   Parking and signs are permitted in required yards. A ten foot (10')
greenbelt must be provided along all the property lines.
      5.   If a tract abuts two (2) or more streets, the front yard shall be
that adjacent to the more heavily traveled street. (Ord. 76-57, 9-13-1976)
11-8G-3: PERMITTED USES:
Accessory uses are permitted which are clearly and customarily incident to the
principal use of a building or premises.
Amusement establishments; bowling alleys, swimming pools, skating rinks, indoor
tennis courts, and similar activities.
Assembly rooms, auditoriums, banquet halls and meeting rooms.
Cocktail lounges, with or without live entertainment and dancing.
Hotels and motels with services and retail shops of the type customarily found
in hotels including, without limitation, newsstands, gift shops, clothing
stores, barbershops, salons, food shops, liquor stores, travel agents, car
rental offices, game rooms and flower shops.
Outdoor recreation including, without limitation, golf courses, tennis courts,
swimming pools, bicycle paths, ski hills, skating rinks, toboggan slides,
playgrounds and ball fields. These facilities may be lighted for use at night;
provided, that direct rays of light shall not beam upon any part of an existing
residential building or into a street.
Physical culture and health services, gymnasiums, reducing salons and masseurs.
Restaurants, with or without live entertainment and dancing.
Theaters, but not drive-in theaters. (Ord. 76-57, 9-13-1976; amd. 2012 Code)
11-8G-4: SPECIAL USES:
Any permitted or special use in any business district which is not a permitted
use hereunder. (Ord. 76-57, 9-13-1976)
CHAPTER 9
M-1 LIMITED MANUFACTURING DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-9-1: Prohibited Uses
11-9-2: Permitted Uses
11-9-3: Special Uses
11-9-4: Site And Structure Requirements
11-9-5: Enclosed Operations
11-9-6: Proximity To Residence Districts
11-9-7: Performance Standards
11-9-8: Off Street Parking And Loading
11-9-1: PROHIBITED USES:
   A.   No lot, parcel, or tract of land shall be used, and no building or
structure shall be erected, altered, or remodeled for any of the following
uses: abattoir; acid manufacture; arsenals; crematories, creosote treatment or
manufacture; fat rendering; fertilizer manufacture; fireworks or explosive
manufacture or storage; dumping or reduction of garbage, dead animals, offal,
or refuse; ore reduction, petroleum processing or refining; nitrocellulose
manufacture; synthetic polymers manufacture; gutta percha manufacture or
treatment; salt works; sauerkraut manufacture; soap manufacture; smelters;
stockyard or slaughter of animals or fowls; tallow, grease, or lard manufacture
or treatment; tanning, curing, or storage of rawhides or skins; tar
distillation or manufacture; junkyards; or batch asphaltic concrete, cement
concrete, or mortar mixing plants.
   B.   No activities involving the storage, utilization, or manufacture of
materials or products which decompose by detonation shall be permitted, except
such as specifically licensed by the village. Such materials shall include, but
not be confined to, all primary explosives such as lead azide, lead styphnate,
and tetracene; all high explosives such as TNT, RDX, HMX, PETN, and picric
acid, propellants and components thereof such as nitrocellulose, black powder,
boron hydrides, hydrazine and its derivatives; pyrotechnics and fireworks such
as magnesium powder, potassium chlorate and potassium nitrate; blasting
explosives such as dynamite and nitroglycerine; unstable compounds such as
acetylides, tetrazoles, perchloric acid, perchlorates, chlorates, hydrogen
peroxide in concentrations greater than thirty five percent (35%), and nuclear
fuels, fissionable materials, and products and reactor elements such as uranium
235 and plutonium 239. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
11-9-2: PERMITTED USES:
All B-4 district uses, permitted and special.
Boat showrooms.
Building material sales.
Cartage and express establishments, not including motor freight terminals.
Contractor shops and storage.
Dry cleaning, dyeing, and rug cleaning establishments with no limitation on the
number of employees.
Feed stores.
Greenhouses, retail and wholesale.
Laundries, with no limitation on the number of employees.
Machinery sales establishments.
Mail order sales and warehousing.
Manufacturing, assembly, disassembly, fabricating, repairing, storing,
cleaning, servicing or testing establishments, provided operation of such
establishment conforms with applicable performance standards set forth in
section
11-9-7 of this chapter, and provided such use is not specifically prohibited by
this title.
Monument sales and production.
Packaging and crating.
Printing and publishing establishments.
Public utility and public service uses, including:
Electric distribution centers and substations.
Public transportation facilities, including shelters, terminals, parking areas,
and service buildings.
Radio or television transmission or receiving towers.
Railroad rights of way and passenger stations.
Telephone exchanges, microwave relay towers, and telephone transmission
equipment buildings.
Water filtration plants, sewage treatment plants, pumping stations, and
reservoirs, municipally owned and operated.
Signs, as regulated in chapter 14 of this title.
Storage, warehousing, and wholesale establishments, except fuel oil, gasoline,
and other flammable materials. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
11-9-3: SPECIAL USES:
Airports.
Firearms practice facility, indoor, in accordance with the following terms and
conditions:
   A.   It is required that all shooters must complete an orientation safety
program or show a valid firearm owners identification (FOID) card, before they
are allowed to discharge firearms.
   B.   There shall be remote monitoring of air filtration device at regular
intervals.
   C.   No more than one person shall use a shooting lane at any one time.
   D.   The amount and location of ammunition intended for use at the range
shall comply with the requirements of the Bloomingdale fire protection
district.
   E.   There shall be either remote or on site real time monitoring of
security cameras at all times.
   F.   The firearms practice facility shall be required to obtain a business
license that shall include a criminal background check of owners and managers,
and other employees as deemed necessary by the village board.
   G.   The firearms practice facility is required to provide parking for its
customers on site. If parking demand exceeds the supply, the facility shall
reduce the number of lanes that can be occupied for shooting, or otherwise
reduce customer demand for the facility so that parking can be contained on
site.
   H.   All shooting ranges shall provide ceiling and in-wall sound barriers to
prevent sound in excess of fifty five (55) db at the property line of the
subject property, and at zero db at any property line of a residential
district.
   I.   Complaints regarding noise, odors, and traffic congestion resulting
from the firearms practice facility shall be directed to the planning and
zoning commission at a public hearing for a recommendation to the village board
of trustees.
   J.   The shooting range must comply with all village, state of Illinois, and
federal laws and regulations. Where the foregoing requirements conflict with
any other local, state, and federal requirements, the more restrictive shall
apply.
Medical cannabis cultivation and dispensing centers, subject to the following:
   A.   Compliance with the compassionate use of medical cannabis pilot program
act ("act"), also known as Illinois public act 098-0122;
   B.   Submission and performance requirements in addition to those set forth
in chapter 4, "Site Development And Plan Review", of this title and other
performance requirements in district regulations:
      1.   Floor Plan: At minimum a concept floor plan indicating principal
function areas, to include where nonpatients will be permitted, private
consulting areas, storage areas, and retail areas.
      2.   Disposal Plan: A plan for disposal of any medical cannabis or
byproducts that are not sold to a patient or primary caregiver in a manner that
protects any portion thereof from being possessed or ingested by any person or
animal and shall abide by applicable state or local regulations.
      3.   Ventilation Plan: A plan for ventilation of the medical cannabis
business that describes the ventilation systems that will be used to prevent
any odor of medical cannabis off the premises of the business. For cultivation
centers, such plan shall also include all ventilation systems used to control
the environment for the plants and describe how such systems operate with the
systems preventing any odor leaving the premises.
      4.   Security Plan: A security plan for the medical cannabis business
that includes facility access controls, surveillance systems, on site security
personnel, and other security measures required by state or local regulations.
      5.   Exterior Appearance: Elevations of the exterior appearance of the
building of a cultivation center or dispensary demonstrating compatibility with
commercial structures already constructed or under construction within the
immediate neighborhood, to ensure against blight, deterioration, or substantial
diminishment or impairment of property values in the vicinity.
      6.   Entrance And Means Of Egress: Plans shall depict more than one means
of egress from the interior so as to meet building codes and public safety
concerns; however, it shall have a single secure public entrance and shall
implement appropriate security measures to deter and prevent the theft of
medical cannabis and unauthorized entrance into areas containing cannabis. The
dispensary entrance shall be located and maintained clear of any barriers,
landscaping and similar obstructions that may block the view so that the
entrance and pedestrian access is clearly visible from the public street,
sidewalk and parking area.
      7.   Cannabis Paraphernalia And Product Display At Dispensaries: No
retail sales of cannabis paraphernalia are permitted except as permitted by law
to qualifying patients and/or designated caregivers. No medical cannabis or
paraphernalia shall be displayed or kept in a dispensary so as to be visible
from outside the premises.
      8.   On Site Use Prohibited: No cannabis shall be smoked, eaten or
otherwise consumed or ingested within the medical cannabis business.
Planned developments.
Stone or gravel quarries, when crushing, grading, washing, and loading
operations conform with not less than the applicable regulations set forth in
this chapter. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014; Ord. 2015-
03, 1-12-2015)
11-9-4: SITE AND STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Lot Area: Lot area is to be not less than eighteen thousand (18,000)
square feet.
   B.   Lot Width: Lot width is to be not less than one hundred feet (100').
   C.   Floor Area: Floor area is to be not less than five thousand (5,000)
square feet.
   D.   Floor Area Ratio: Floor area ratio is not to exceed 1.5.
   E.   Building Height: Building height is not to exceed thirty five feet
(35').
   F.   Yards:
      1.   Front Yard: Front yard is to be not less than forty feet (40') in
depth.
      2.   Side Yards: Side yards shall not be less than twenty five feet (25')
in width, except a side yard abutting a street shall not be less than forty
feet (40') in width.
      3.   Rear Yard: Rear yard is to be not less than forty feet (40') in
depth, except a rear yard abutting an alley or railroad right of way may be
reduced to twenty feet (20') in depth.
   G.   Dwellings: No dwelling units will be allowed, except for that of the
owner or caretaker. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
   H.   Signs: Signs shall be subject to the regulations of chapter 14 of this
title. (2012 Code)
11-9-5: ENCLOSED OPERATIONS:
Within three hundred feet (300') of a residence district boundary line, all
activities and operations shall be within completely enclosed buildings, or may
be out of doors if completely screened by a solid wall or uniformly painted
fence at least eight feet (8') in height, and open storage shall not be of a
greater height than that of the enclosing fence; except, that off street
parking for vehicles in operable condition and off street loading and unloading
spaces may be located in accordance with requirements set forth in chapter 13
of this title. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
11-9-6: PROXIMITY TO RESIDENCE DISTRICTS:
No buildings or structures shall be used for the manufacture, fabricating,
assembly, disassembly, repairing, storing, cleaning, or servicing of materials,
products, or goods within three hundred feet (300') of any lot line of a lot
located in a residence district. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
11-9-7: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
Any use established in manufacturing districts which involves the
manufacturing, fabricating, assembly, disassembly, repairing, storing,
cleaning, servicing, or testing of materials, goods, or products shall be
operated in such a manner as to comply with applicable performance standards as
hereinafter set forth governing noise, smoke, particulate matter, toxic or
noxious matter, odors, fire and explosive hazards, or vibration, glare, or
heat, and no use already established on the effective date hereof shall be so
altered or modified as to conflict with, or further conflict with, such
applicable performance standards. The application for a building permit shall
be accompanied by a certification from a recognized testing laboratory selected
from a panel approved by the village board.
   A.   Noise:
      1.   Sound levels shall be measured with a sound level meter and
associated octave band filter manufactured according to standards prescribed by
the American Standards Association. Measurements shall be made using the flat
network of the sound level meter. Impulsive type noises shall be subject to the
performance standards hereinafter prescribed; provided, that such noises shall
be capable of being accurately measured with such equipment. Noises capable of
being so measured, for the purpose of this title, shall be those noises which
cause rapid fluctuations of the needle of the sound level meter with a
variation of no more than plus or minus two (±2) decibels. Noises incapable of
being so measured, such as those of an irregular and intermittent nature, shall
be controlled so as not to become a nuisance to adjacent uses.
      2.   At no point on the boundary of a residence or business district
shall the sound intensity level of any individual operation or plant (other
than the operation of motor vehicles or other transportation facilities) exceed
the decibel levels in the designated octave bands shown in the following table:
(Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
Octave Band           Maximum Permitted Sound Level (Decibels)
(Frequency Cycles Per Along Or In Residence Along Or In Business District
Second)               District Boundaries   Boundaries
Octave Band           Maximum Permitted Sound Level (Decibels)
(Frequency Cycles Per Along Or In Residence Along Or In Business District
Second)               District Boundaries   Boundaries
1 to 75               72                    75
76 to 150             67                    70
151 to 300            59                    63
301 to 600            52                    57
601 to 1,200          46                    52
1,201 to 2,400        40                    45
2,401 to 4,800        34                    40
above 4,800           32                    38
 
(Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Smoke And Particulate Matter:
      1.   The emission of smoke or particulate matter in such manner or
quantity as to endanger or to be detrimental to the public health, safety,
comfort, or welfare is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall
henceforth be unlawful.
      2.   For the purpose of grading the density of smoke, the Ringelmann
chart, published and used by the United States bureau of mines, shall be
employed. The emission of smoke or particulate matter of a density greater than
no. 2 on the Ringelmann chart is prohibited at all times, except as otherwise
provided hereinafter.
      3.   The emission, from all sources within any lot area, of particulate
matter containing more than ten percent (10%) by weight of particles having a
particle diameter larger than forty four (44) microns is prohibited.
      4.   Dust and other types of air pollution, borne by the wind from such
sources as storage areas, yards, roads, and the like, within lot boundaries,
shall be kept to a minimum by appropriate landscaping, paving, oiling, fencing,
or acceptable means. Emission of particulate matter from such sources in excess
of the weight limitation hereinafter specified is prohibited.
      5.   The emission of more than eight (8) smoke units per hour per stack
is prohibited, including smoke of a density in excess of Ringelmann no. 2.
However, during one 1-hour period in each twenty four (24) hour day, each stack
may emit up to sixteen (16) smoke units when blowing soot or cleaning fires.
Only during fire cleaning periods, however, shall smoke of Ringelmann no. 3 be
permitted, and then for not more than three (3) minutes.
   C.   Toxic Or Noxious Matter: No use shall, for any period of time,
discharge across the boundaries of the lot wherein it is located, toxic or
noxious matter in such concentrations as to be detrimental to or endanger the
public health, safety, comfort, or welfare, or cause injury or damage to
property or business.
   D.   Odors: The emission of odorous matter in such a quantity as to be
readily detectable at any point along lot lines, or as to produce a public
nuisance or hazard beyond lot lines, is prohibited.
   E.   Fire And Explosion Hazard:
      1.   The storage, utilization, or manufacture of materials or products
ranging from incombustible to moderate burning, as determined for liquids by a
closed cup flashpoint of not less than one hundred eighty seven degrees
Fahrenheit (187°F), is permitted subject to compliance with all other
performance standards for this district.
      2.   The storage, utilization, or manufacture of materials or products
ranging from free or active burning to intense burning, as determined for
liquids by a closed cup flashpoint of less than one hundred eighty seven
degrees Fahrenheit (187°F) but not less than one hundred five degrees
Fahrenheit (105°F), is permitted subject to compliance with all other
performance standards for this district, and provided the following conditions
are met:
         a.   Said materials or products shall be stored, utilized, or produced
within completely enclosed buildings or structures having exterior walls of
fire resistive construction in accordance with other provisions of this code.
         b.   Unless otherwise provided in this title, all such buildings or
structures shall be set back at least forty feet (40') from lot lines, or in
lieu thereof, all such buildings or structures shall be protected throughout by
an automatic sprinkler system complying with installation standards prescribed
by the National Fire Protection Association, or if the materials, goods, or
products are liquids, the protection thereof shall be in conformity with
standards prescribed by the National Fire Protection Association.
      3.   The utilization in manufacturing processes of materials which
produce flammable or explosive vapors or gases, as determined for liquids by a
closed cup flashpoint of less than one hundred five degrees Fahrenheit (105°F),
shall be permitted in this district; provided:
         a.   That the final manufactured product does not itself have a closed
cup flashpoint of less than one hundred eighty seven degrees Fahrenheit
(187°F);
         b.   That the use and storage of such materials shall be in conformity
with standards prescribed by the National Fire Protection Association and with
the requirements of other provisions of this code; and
         c.   That the storage of said materials shall be prohibited
aboveground.
   F.   Glare Or Heat: Any operation producing intense glare or heat shall be
performed within a completely enclosed building in such a manner as not to
create a public nuisance or hazard along lot lines.
   G.   Vibration: No industrial operation or activity (except those not under
the direct control of the manufacturer) shall cause, at any time, ground
transmitted vibrations in excess of the limits set forth below. Vibration (the
periodic displacement, measured in inches, of earth) shall be measured at any
point along a residence district boundary line with a three (3) component
measuring instrument approved by the village board, and shall be expressed as
displacement in inches as follows:
 
Frequency (Cycles Per Second) Maximum Permitted Displacement Along Residence
                              District Boundaries (In Inches)
0 to 10                       0.0008
10 to 20                      0.0005
20 to 30                      0.0002
30 to 40                      0.0002
40 and over                   0.0001
 
(Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
11-9-8: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Parking spaces and loading berths shall be in accordance with provisions set
forth in chapter 13 of this title. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
CHAPTER 10
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A. BUSINESS PARK PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT OF 75 TO 250 ACRES
SECTION:
11-10A-1: Purpose And Intent
11-10A-2: Uses
11-10A-3: Lot Size
11-10A-4: Yards
11-10A-5: Bulk Regulations
11-10A-6: Off Street Parking And Loading
11-10A-7: Signs
11-10A-8: Landscaping And Screening
11-10A-9: Building Construction And Design
11-10A-10: Special Provisions
11-10A-11: Procedure For Establishing District
11-10A-12: Application Of Provisions
11-10A-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   A business park district shall be a planned unit development district
by special use of seventy five (75) to two hundred fifty (250) acres ("business
park district"). The business park district is intended to provide for a
unified development of mixed uses, in a campuslike setting, which will promote
and maintain desirable economic activities.
   B.   A business park district, as a planned development, is of such a
substantially different character from other planned developments that the
public welfare requires that development within the business park district be
treated in a different manner from other planned developments. (Ord. 87-29, 6-
22-1987; amd. 2012 Code)
   C.   The purpose of this article is to set forth specific standards and
exceptions to govern the recommendations of the planning and zoning commission
and the action of the board of trustees with respect to granting approvals for
such districts and development therein. These regulations are designed to
provide for an integrated development considering all the elements of good land
planning so as to provide an adequate relationship between structures and land
uses, while at the same time providing for adequate space, light, air, use and
bulk limitations, and promoting the health, safety and welfare of the village
and its residents. (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
   D.   A business park district is a tract of land between seventy five (75)
and two hundred fifty (250) acres of contiguous property; provided, that
properties separated by highways, streets, public ways or railroad or other
public utility rights of way may be deemed to be contiguous for the purpose of
qualifying as a business park district.
   E.   After the establishment of a business park district in accordance with
procedures set forth in this article, contiguous property of any size may be
added to such business park district. All procedures required by this article
for the establishment of a business park district, or any other ordinance of
the village which refers to or applies to the establishment of a business park
district, shall be applicable to the addition of property to such business park
district. (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987; amd. 2012 Code)
11-10A-2: USES:
   A.   Permitted And Special Uses: The following permitted and special uses
shall be allowed in the district:
      1.   Permitted Uses:
Any municipal or governmental building or use;
Institutions of an educational, governmental, religious, philanthropic or
fraternal nature;
Light industrial, assembly and laboratory facilities, as such uses relate to
the production of products and parts;
Professional and administrative offices (excluding medical and dental) and
brokerages, but no goods or retail residential real estate may be offered for
sale in the district unless accessory to a principal use located along a major
arterial;
Recreational facilities including, but not limited to, golf courses, tennis
courts and health clubs;
Technology and research centers, including medical and hospital research
establishments; and
Wholesale establishments; storage and warehousing (excluding miniwarehouse
facilities) in conjunction with an office use or wholesale establishment.
Storage of fuel oil and gasoline shall be prohibited unless incidental to the
on site operation and approved by the fire protection district.
      2.   Special Uses: The following uses will be allowed within the
district; provided, that:
         a.   Each use shall be subject to review by the planning and zoning
commission and approval by the village board in accordance with requirements
contained in section
11-3-4 of this title. (Note: Requires a public hearing.):
            (1)   Permitted and special uses listed in districts B-1, B-2 and
B-3, chapter 8, articles B, C and D of this title; provided, that:
               (A)   The uses do not fall within those uses identified in
subsection A1 of this section; and
               (B)   The uses are located along a major arterial.
            (2)   Hotels or motels.
            (3)   Multiple-family residential.
            (4)   Firearms practice facility, indoor, in accordance with the
following terms and conditions:
               (A)   It is required that all shooters must complete an
orientation safety program or show a valid firearm owners identification (FOID)
card, before they are allowed to discharge firearms.
               (B)   There shall be remote monitoring of air filtration device
at regular intervals.
               (C)   No more than one person shall use a shooting lane at any
one time.
               (D)   The amount and location of ammunition intended for use at
the range shall comply with the requirements of the Bloomingdale fire
protection district.
               (E)   There shall be either remote or on site real time
monitoring of security cameras at all times.
               (F)   The firearms practice facility shall be required to obtain
a business license that shall include a criminal background check of owners and
managers, and other employees as deemed necessary by the village board.
               (G)   The firearms practice facility is required to provide
parking for its customers on site. If parking demand exceeds the supply, the
facility shall reduce the number of lanes that can be occupied for shooting, or
otherwise reduce customer demand for the facility so that parking can be
contained on site.
               (H)   All shooting ranges shall provide ceiling and in-wall
sound barriers to prevent sound in excess of fifty five (55) db at the property
line of the subject property, and at zero db at any property line of a
residential district.
               (I)   Complaints regarding noise, odors, and traffic congestion
resulting from the firearms practice facility shall be directed to the planning
and zoning commission at a public hearing for a recommendation to the village
board of trustees.
               (J)   The shooting range must comply with all village, state of
Illinois, and federal laws and regulations. Where the foregoing requirements
conflict with any other local, state, and federal requirements, the more
restrictive shall apply.
            (5)   Medical cannabis cultivation and dispensing centers, subject
to the following:
               (A)   Compliance with the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis
Pilot Program Act ("Act"), also known as Illinois Public Act 098-0122;
               (B)   Submission and performance requirements in addition to
those set forth in chapter 4, "Site Development And Plan Review", of this title
and other performance requirements in district regulations:
                  (i)   Floor Plan: At minimum a concept floor plan indicating
principal function areas, to include where nonpatients will be permitted,
private consulting areas, storage areas, and retail areas.
                  (ii)   Disposal Plan: A plan for disposal of any medical
cannabis or byproducts that are not sold to a patient or primary caregiver in a
manner that protects any portion thereof from being possessed or ingested by
any person or animal and shall abide by applicable State or local regulations.
                  (iii)   Ventilation Plan: A plan for ventilation of the
medical cannabis business that describes the ventilation systems that will be
used to prevent any odor of medical cannabis off the premises of the business.
For cultivation centers, such plan shall also include all ventilation systems
used to control the environment for the plants and describe how such systems
operate with the systems preventing any odor leaving the premises.
                  (iv)   Security Plan: A security plan for the medical
cannabis business that includes facility access controls, surveillance systems,
on site security personnel, and other security measures required by State or
local regulations.
                  (v)   Exterior Appearance: Elevations of the exterior
appearance of the building of a cultivation center or dispensary demonstrating
compatibility with commercial structures already constructed or under
construction within the immediate neighborhood, to ensure against blight,
deterioration, or substantial diminishment or impairment of property values in
the vicinity.
                  (vi)   Entrance And Means Of Egress: Plans shall depict more
than one means of egress from the interior so as to meet Building Codes and
public safety concerns; however, it shall have a single secure public entrance
and shall implement appropriate security measures to deter and prevent the
theft of medical cannabis and unauthorized entrance into areas containing
cannabis. The dispensary entrance shall be located and maintained clear of any
barriers, landscaping and similar obstructions that may block the view so that
the entrance and pedestrian access is clearly visible from the public street,
sidewalk and parking area.
                  (vii)   Cannabis Paraphernalia And Product Display At
Dispensaries: No retail sales of cannabis paraphernalia are permitted except as
permitted by law to qualifying patients and/or designated caregivers. No
medical cannabis or paraphernalia shall be displayed or kept in a dispensary so
as to be visible from outside the premises.
                  (viii)   On Site Use Prohibited: No cannabis shall be smoked,
eaten or otherwise consumed or ingested within the medical cannabis business.
            (6)   Permanent dermal pigmentation establishments, provided they
are not located along a major arterial, and in accordance with the provisions
set forth in Title 4 (Business and License Regulations) of the Village Code.
         b.   Each use shall comply with the lot size, yard and bulk
requirements of their respective zoning classifications.
   B.   Accessory Uses: All accessory uses shall be permitted in accordance
with the regulations contained in section
11-5-9 of this title.
   C.   Temporary Uses: Temporary structures for construction purposes shall be
permitted on an individual lot in accordance with a construction schedule to be
submitted by the developer and approved by the Village Engineer. (Ord. 87-29,
6-22-1987; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014; Ord. 2015-03, 1-12-2015;
Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017; Ord. 2022-22, 5-9-2022; Ord. 2024-40, 9-9-2024)
11-10A-3: LOT SIZE:
A separate ground area, or zoning lot, shall be designated for each structure
containing a permitted use or special use in accordance with the following:
   A.   Minimum lot area: Two (2) acres.
   B.   Minimum lot width, as measured at the front building setback line: Two
hundred feet (200'). (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987)
11-10A-4: YARDS:
   A.   Minimum Front Yard:
      1.   All structures fronting on streets which form the boundary of the
district shall maintain a minimum setback of fifty feet (50') from the front
lot line, with the exception of Lake Street, Gary Avenue and Bloomingdale,
Schick, Army Trail and Schmale Roads. On lots that abut Lake Street, Gary
Avenue and Bloomingdale, Schick, Army Trail and Schmale Roads, all structures
shall maintain a minimum setback of seventy five feet (75') from a front lot
line;
      2.   Structures that front on streets that are internal to the district
shall be set back thirty five feet (35') from the front lot line;
      3.   Landscaping within a front yard shall be in accordance with the
requirements contained in this subsection A3 and section
11-10A-8 of this article. Means of ingress and egress, signs and obstructions
permitted in section
11-10A-7 of this article and chapters 13 and 14 of this title shall be
permitted in the front yard.
         a.   Lots Fronting On Streets Outside District:
            (1)   The first thirty feet (30') of the front yard of all lots
fronting on streets forming the boundary of the district, as measured from the
front lot line, shall be sodded or seeded and landscaped; and
            (2)   No parking or roads shall be permitted within the first
thirty feet (30') of the front yard;
         b.   Lots Fronting On Streets Within District:
            (1)   The first thirty five feet (35') of the front yard of all
lots fronting on interior streets within the district, as measured from the
edge of the pavement, shall be sodded or seeded and landscaped;
            (2)   No parking or roads shall be permitted within the first
thirty five feet (35') of the front yard;
            (3)   A five foot (5') wide sidewalk may be installed within the
required thirty five foot (35') landscaped area in accordance with subsection
11-10A-10E of this article; and
      4.   Loading berths shall not be permitted in the front yard of any lot
within this district, unless enclosed.
   B.   Minimum Corner Side Yard:
      1.   All structures shall maintain a minimum setback of fifty feet (50')
from the corner side lot line along streets which form the boundary of the
district, with the exception of lots that abut Lake Street, Gary Avenue and
Bloomingdale, Schick, Army Trail and Schmale Roads. On lots that abut Lake
Street, Gary Avenue and Bloomingdale, Schick, Army Trail and Schmale Roads,
structures shall maintain a minimum setback of seventy five feet (75') from a
corner side lot line;
      2.   On lots that are interior to the business park and do not abut a
boundary line of the district, structures may be set back thirty five feet
(35') from the corner side lot line;
      3.   Landscaping within a corner side yard shall be in accordance with
the requirements contained in this subsection B3 and section
11-10A-8 of this article. Means of ingress and egress, signs and obstructions
permitted in section
11-10A-7 of this article and chapters 13 and 14 of this title shall be
permitted in the corner side yard.
         a.   Lots Abutting Streets Outside District:
            (1)   The first thirty feet (30') of the corner side yard of all
lots that abut streets forming the boundary of the district, as measured from
the corner side lot line, shall be sodded or seeded and landscaped; and
            (2)   No parking or roads shall be permitted within the first
thirty feet (30') of the corner side yard;
         b.   Lots Abutting Streets Within District:
            (1)   The first thirty five feet (35') of the corner side yard of
all lots which abut interior streets, as measured from the edge of the
pavement, shall be sodded or seeded and landscaped;
            (2)   No parking, roads or loading berths shall be permitted within
the first thirty five feet (35') of the corner side yard;
            (3)   A five foot (5') wide sidewalk may be installed within the
required thirty five foot (35') landscaped area in accordance with subsection
11-10A-10E of this article; and
      4.   No parking, loading berths or access roads shall be permitted in the
first thirty feet (30') of the minimum corner side yard.
   C.   Minimum Interior Side Yard:
      1.   All structures shall be set back from the side lot line a distance
of not less than twenty five feet (25'), plus one additional foot for each two
feet (2') of building height above thirty five feet (35');
      2.   Parking, loading berths and access roads shall be prohibited from
the first twenty five feet (25') along an interior side lot line that extends
from the front property line to the rear facade of a building; and
      3.   Parking, loading berths and access roads shall be permitted no
closer than ten feet (10') to an interior side lot line that extends from the
rear facade of a building to the rear lot line.
   D.   Minimum Rear Yard:
      1.   All structures shall maintain a minimum setback of fifty feet (50')
from a rear lot line which forms the boundary of the district, with the
exception of lots that abut Lake Street, Gary Avenue and Bloomingdale, Schick,
Army Trail and Schmale Roads. On lots that abut Lake Street, Gary Avenue and
Bloomingdale, Schick, Army Trail and Schmale Roads, all structures shall
maintain a minimum setback of seventy five feet (75') from a rear lot line;
      2.   On lots that are interior to the business park and do not abut a
boundary line of the district, structures may be set back a minimum of twenty
feet (20') from a rear lot line; provided, that they are set back one
additional foot for each two feet (2') of building height above thirty five
feet (35');
      3.   Pavement for parking, loading berths and access roads shall be
permitted no closer than ten feet (10') to an interior rear lot line; and
      4.   Parking, loading berths and access roads shall be set back a minimum
of fifty feet (50') from a rear lot line which forms the boundary line of the
district.
   E.   Transition Yards: All structures in the district shall be set back a
minimum of seventy five feet (75') from a side or rear lot line which abuts or
is across the street from a front, side or rear lot line in a residential
district. (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987)
11-10A-5: BULK REGULATIONS:
   A.   Maximum Structure Height:
      1.   No building or structure shall exceed one hundred feet (100') in
height;
      2.   All buildings or structures shall adhere to the following height
restrictions: (Note: For purposes of determining allowable height, the number
of feet from a residential district is measured from the residential lot line,
and is inclusive of streets and rights of way.)
         a.   Thirty five feet (35'), when located within one hundred fifty
feet (150') of any residential district;
         b.   Fifty feet (50'), when located a distance between one hundred
fifty (150) and three hundred feet (300') from any residential district;
         c.   Any building or structure that is located more than three hundred
feet (300') from a residential district may be erected above fifty feet (50')
in height if set back an additional one foot (1') for each two feet (2') in
height that exceeds fifty feet (50'); and (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987)
         d.   Any building or structure that exceeds sixty feet (60') in height
shall be subject to review and approval by the planning and zoning commission
and village board in accordance with procedures set forth in subsection 11-10A-
11H of this article. (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
   B.   Maximum Lot Coverage: The maximum coverage of any lot within this
district (for permitted uses listed in subsection 11-10A-2A of this article) by
buildings, parking, roads, or any other impervious surface shall not exceed
seventy five percent (75%). (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987)
11-10A-6: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
   A.   Off street parking shall be provided in accordance with requirements
contained in chapter 13 of this title; and (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987)
   B.   All unenclosed loading facilities shall be provided in accordance with
requirements contained in chapter 13 of this title, and shall be subject to
review and approval by the Planning and Zoning Commission and Village Board in
accordance with procedures set forth in subsection 11-10A-11H of this article;
and (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
   C.   No parking facility or loading berth shall be closer than fifty feet
(50') to any lot line that is adjacent to a residential property line; and
   D.   Development of all lots shall include six inch (6") curbing along the
perimeter of all parking lots, access roads and unenclosed loading berths.
(Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987)
11-10A-7: SIGNS:
   A.   Unless otherwise approved by ordinance subsequent to the date of
approval of the Business Park District (ordinance 87-29, passed June 22, 1987),
signage shall be provided in accordance with requirements contained in chapter
14 of this title for office use; and (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   All signs shall fit into a uniform design framework which includes
compatibility of structure, materials, color palette and method of
illumination. (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987)
11-10A-8: LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING:
The applicant shall submit six (6) copies of the final landscape plan prepared
for each lot for review and approval by the Village Planner and Village
Engineer. Landscaping shall be designed to coordinate the appearance of the
varying design elements within the Business Park District, and shall be in
accordance with the following: (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987; amd. 2012 Code; Ord.
2017-42, 11-13-2017)
   A.   Preservation Of Natural Features:
      1.   An evaluation of each building site shall be made to determine
whether desirable tree stands, ponds, or other existing natural features can be
preserved and included in the landscape plan; and (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987; amd.
2012 Code)
      2.   Existing trees shall be preserved, wherever possible, in accordance
with a tree preservation plan, subject to review and approval by the Village
Engineer and Village Planner. (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987; amd. 2012 Code; Ord.
2017-42, 11-13-2017)
   B.   Front And Corner Side Yards:
      1.   The front and corner side yards of all lots shall be landscaped in
accordance with subsections 11-10A-4A and B of this article and requirements of
this subsection;
      2.   At a minimum, landscaping in the front and corner side yards shall
include the installation of evergreen, deciduous, or ornamental trees averaging
thirty feet (30') on center (as measured per linear foot of frontage) and
planted in naturalistic groupings; and
      3.   Landscaped berms and/or evergreen plantings shall be provided in the
front and corner side yards in accordance with criteria set forth in
subsections B2 and E of this section in order to minimize the visual effect of
large paved areas and standing automobiles.
   C.   Interior Side Yards:
      1.   Landscaping shall also be required within the minimum interior side
yard of each lot.
      2.   At a minimum, landscaping in the interior side yard shall include
the installation of evergreen, deciduous, or ornamental trees averaging eighty
feet (80') on center (as measured per linear foot along the side lot line), and
alternately spaced with the existing or proposed trees within an interior side
or rear yard of an adjoining parcel.
      3.   When loading facilities are located in an interior side yard and are
visible from an adjacent developed property or public right-of-way, landscaped
berms or evergreen plantings shall be provided in accordance with criteria set
forth in subsection E of this section to screen loading activities from public
view.
   D.   Interior Rear Yard:
      1.   At a minimum, interior rear yards shall be seeded or sodded and
landscaped with evergreen, deciduous or ornamental trees averaging eighty feet
(80') on center (as measured per linear foot along the rear lot line); and
      2.   Trees shall be alternately spaced with the existing or proposed
trees within an interior rear or side yard of an adjoining parcel.
   E.   Screening:
      1.   a. Screening shall be provided when off street parking and/or
unenclosed loading facilities are adjacent to a major arterial, adjacent to or
across from residential or institutional land uses, or between commercial and
office/industrial land uses;
         b.   Such screening may be accomplished through the provision of
landscaped berms, a compact hedge, fence, or wall, or a combination of any of
these methods;
         c.   Required screening shall be at least five feet (5') high;
         d.   The placement of the screen around the parking or loading
facility shall not impair the safety of pedestrian or vehicular traffic;
      2.   Tree and shrub buffers, not less than fifty feet (50') in depth,
shall be developed along all lot lines that are adjacent to or across the
street from residential and institutional uses. At a minimum, trees planted
within this buffer yard shall include:
         a.   Deciduous: Three (3) per one hundred (100) linear feet;
         b.   Evergreen: Five (5) per one hundred (100) linear feet; and
         c.   Flowering: Five (5) per one hundred (100) linear feet.
   F.   Streets And Rights-Of-Way:
      1.   To create "gateways" into the business park, landscaping adjacent to
the rights-of-way at intersections into the district shall be accented with
denser and more mature plantings than required by other sections of this
article, and shall include the installation of evergreen and flowering trees
and shrubs; and
      2.   Plants shall be arranged and maintained to provide for proper
sightlines at intersecting streets.
   G.   Interior Parking Lot Landscaping:
      1.   A minimum of ten percent (10%) of any unenclosed parking facility
shall be provided with interior landscaping to create visual relief and break
(soften) the expanse of paving (note: foundation plantings adjacent to the
parking lot shall be included in this calculation);
      2.   All parking lot landscaping shall be curbed to prevent destruction
of the landscaping by vehicles;
      3.   The design of interior parking lot landscaping shall accommodate
pedestrian traffic or shall be located away from anticipated pedestrian paths
to avoid potential maintenance problems;
      4.   Interior parking lot landscaping shall include, at a minimum, one
deciduous street tree for each ten (10) parking spaces (note: trees used in
landscaping required yards shall count toward this calculation, provided the
parking lot adjoins these buffer yards);
      5.   Parking lot islands and median strips shall be mounded, for improved
drainage, with slopes not to exceed four to one (4:1); and
      6.   An area between two feet (2') and five feet (5') aboveground shall
be kept clear of plant growth, except for tree trunks, in order to assure that
pedestrians and automobiles will be visible to the motorist.
   H.   Recommended Plant Materials:
      1.   Trees and shrubs shall be selected from the recommended species list
attached to ordinance 87-29 as exhibit A, or other species as approved by the
Village Planner. (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987)
      2.   Unless otherwise approved by the Village Engineer or the Village
Planner, the minimum size of trees, when installed, shall be as follows: (Ord.
87-29, 6-22-1987; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
         a.   Deciduous: Three inch (3") caliper;
         b.   Evergreen: Six feet (6') high; and
         c.   Flowering: Six feet (6') high.
      3.   Once the minimum landscape requirements have been met, any size tree
may be installed on a lot to supplement minimum requirements.
   I.   Berming: Berming used for landscaping and/or screening purposes shall
be in accordance with the following:
      1.   Mounding shall be located between the right-of-way and the building
setback lines;
      2.   Earth mounding shall generally vary in height, width, and length to
create a free form, naturalistic effect; and
      3.   The height of berms shall range between three feet (3') and four
feet (4') in front yards along major arterials, and between four feet (4') and
seven feet (7') adjacent to residential districts; slopes of berms shall not
exceed a three to one (3:1) ratio.
   J.   Maintenance:
      1.   All landscaping shall be maintained in a healthy growing condition,
neat and orderly in appearance, and free of refuse and debris; and
      2.   All dead plant materials shall be removed and replaced as required
in order to maintain an attractive landscape at all times. (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-
1987)
11-10A-9: BUILDING CONSTRUCTION AND DESIGN:
   A.   Materials: Buildings shall be constructed of masonry brick, stone, or
block (excluding plain concrete block), architectural steel and glass, or
precast concrete panels; (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987)
   B.   Compatible Design: Design of all buildings shall be compatible in form,
textures and colors, consistent with a campuslike setting, and shall be
approved by the Village Planner and Building Commissioner, whose approval shall
not be unreasonably withheld; (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987; amd. 2012 Code; Ord.
2017-42, 11-13-2017)
   C.   Planned Unit Developments Near Residence Districts: Where a rear or
side elevation of a structure is adjacent to or across the street from a
residential district, the facade shall be articulated through architectural
design, change in building materials, use of berms and/or landscaping in order
to avoid the monotonous view of a flat, linear and unbroken facade.
   D.   Screening:
      1.   All rooftop mechanical equipment shall be effectively screened from
public view by the roof structure or a parapet wall;
      2.   All meters and other mechanical equipment located on the exterior
wall of a building shall be effectively screened from public view by
landscaping or architectural elements; and
      3.   Exposed exterior downspouts shall be prohibited. (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-
1987)
11-10A-10: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Performance Standards: All uses within the district shall comply with
the performance standards contained in section
11-9-7 of this title.
   B.   Outdoor Storage:
      1.   All outdoor storage facilities shall be located adjacent to a
railroad right-of-way;
      2.   All outdoor storage facilities and trash receptacles shall be
enclosed by a fence, wall, and/or landscaping not less than five feet (5')
high, and shall be screened from view of adjacent residential or institutional
properties and public rights-of-way; and
      3.   No materials or wastes shall be deposited or stored on any lot in a
district so that they may be transferred off the property by natural causes or
forces.
   C.   Outdoor Sales: All outdoor sales space shall be provided with a
permanent, durable and dustless surface, graded and drained to dispose of all
surface water.
   D.   Streets And Public Rights-Of-Way:
      1.   All new streets constructed within the district shall be
curvilinear, designed to fit the terrain and protect existing vegetation; and
(Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987)
      2.   Proposed rights-of-way, street widths and specifications for
pavement shall require approval of the Village Engineer. (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-
1987; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
   E.   Sidewalks:
      1.   Five foot (5') wide sidewalks shall be provided within the rights-
of-way one foot (1') off the property line of major arterials that abut the
boundary line of a district; construction standards for sidewalks shall be in
accordance with the Village subdivision regulations and construction and design
standards for public improvements; and
      2.   An integrated pedestrian system shall be provided within the
district which links all development parcels to one another and to external
systems.
   F.   Lighting:
      1.   The developer of a district shall be responsible for selecting and
implementing a unified system of lighting in the district;
      2.   Any lighting used to illuminate an unenclosed off street parking
and/or loading area, pedestrianway, sign or structure shall be located and/or
shielded to avoid glare and excessive light spillage upon adjacent residential
properties or public rights-of-way;
      3.   Illumination levels shall not exceed 0.5 foot-candle beyond the
boundary lines of the district;
      4.   The average maintained foot-candle within a parking facility shall
not be less than 1.0 nor greater than 3.0, and the maximum to minimum ratio
shall not exceed eight to one (8:1); and
      5.   Lights used to illuminate the facade of a building shall be located
and directed so as to avoid glare or excessive light spillage upon adjacent
properties and public rights-of-way.
   G.   Drainage:
      1.   No land shall be developed and no use shall be permitted that
results in water runoff causing flooding, erosion or deposit of minerals on
adjacent properties;
      2.   Such runoff shall be properly channeled into a storm drain,
watercourse, ponding area or other public facilities in accordance with title
10, chapter 12 of this Code and any other applicable Village ordinances or
agreements pertaining to stormwater runoff; and (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987)
      3.   Any change in grade affecting water runoff onto adjacent properties
must be as approved by the Village Engineer. (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987; amd. 2012
Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
   H.   Preservation Of Natural Features:
      1.   Existing upland vegetation, wetlands, surface waters, and other
natural features shall be preserved to the maximum extent possible in order to
maintain important natural functions such as groundwater recharge, flood
storage/desynchronization, sediment trapping, nutrient retention, erosion
control, and wildlife habitat; and
      2.   The applicant shall incorporate such natural features into required
buffer yards, using them as visual screens, where possible, or capitalize upon
existing wetlands and stands of trees to frame views of buildings from the
public rights-of- way; and (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987)
      3.   Wetlands or other natural features which cannot be preserved shall
be replaced on site, with due regard for their functional values, in accordance
with requirements of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Proposals for
replacement of wetlands or other significant natural features shall be subject
to review by the Village Engineer and the Village Planner, whose approval shall
not be unreasonably withheld. (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987; amd. 2012 Code; Ord.
2017-42, 11-13-2017)
11-10A-11: PROCEDURE FOR ESTABLISHING DISTRICT:
   A.   Application:
      1.   Application for a Business Park District may be made by the owner or
contract purchaser by filing an application for a zoning amendment with the
Village Clerk in accordance with requirements of section
11-3-5 of this title;
      2.   At the time the application is filed, the developer shall also
submit plans, data, and other information as required by subsection C of this
section; (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987)
      3.   Copies of the application and submittals shall be forwarded to the
Planning and Zoning Commission with the request to hold a public hearing; and
(Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
      4.   The applicant shall give notice of the public hearing in accordance
with procedures outlined in subsection 11-3-5C of this title. (Ord. 87-29, 6-
22-1987)
   B.   Public Hearing:
      1.   Upon receipt of the application and other required submittals, the
Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold a public hearing on the proposed
amendment, which shall be continued at least once; and
      2.   The Planning and Zoning Commission may continue the hearing from
time to time without publication of additional notices. (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987;
amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
   C.   Concept Plan; Submittals: At the time of the application, the developer
shall submit thirteen (13) copies of the following materials, each folded to an
eight and one-half inch by fourteen inch (81/2" x 14") size, with the title
block clearly displayed:
      1.   A location map, which illustrates the relationship of the property
to surrounding land uses;
      2.   A plat of survey prepared by a registered surveyor, including a
legal description of the subject property to be included in the district;
      3.   A Concept Land Use Plan, presented in a general schematic fashion,
which includes the following:
         a.   Proposed land uses and existing uses within one hundred feet
(100') of the district;
         b.   Natural features on the subject property and within one hundred
feet (100') of the district, including topography, floodplains, wetlands and
existing vegetation;
         c.   Pattern of public and private roads, including rights-of- way,
and intended design standards;
         d.   Size, area and location of lots;
         e.   Dimensioned setbacks, easements and minimum yards;
         f.   Description of the anticipated use, type, and location of
structures;
         g.   Location, type and size of landscaping;
         h.   Proposed open space and/or stormwater detention/retention
facilities;
      4.   Architectural drawings and sketches illustrating the design and
character of proposed structures;
      5.   Concept landscape plan for the district, prepared by a landscape
architect, identifying existing vegetation that will be preserved and showing
proposed treatment of major entryways, rights-of-way, and perimeter buffers;
      6.   Concept plan for signage, including proposed materials, color scheme
and method of illumination;
      7.   Details on lighting, including height, type of luminaire, and method
of illumination;
      8.   Illustrative site plans, showing typical building footprints, off
street parking and loading areas, pedestrianways and landscaping, including
typical screening of parking and loading facilities, outdoor storage areas, or
screening from adjacent residential properties, as appropriate, for the
following situations:
         a.   Development of an interior lot;
         b.   Transition between two (2) different land uses, if applicable;
         c.   Buffering of a lot which is adjacent to a residential district;
         d.   Development of a lot which fronts on a major arterial; and
         e.   Development of a lot on a corner and/or cul-de-sac;
      9.   A preliminary engineering study, including the following:
         a.   A general description of and location map showing existing
sanitary, stormwater and potable water facilities within and adjacent to the
proposed district; and
         b.   Proposed improvements necessary to properly handle the potable
water, sanitary sewer, stormwater drainage and other service needs upon
development of the district;
      10.   A market analysis of proposed commercial uses, if any;
      11.   A preliminary traffic study providing a general description of
existing roads on and adjacent to the proposed district and the proposed road
improvements necessary to properly handle the traffic anticipated to be
generated upon development of the district;
      12.   The relationship of the proposed district to existing land uses in
the surrounding area and the Village Comprehensive Plan, including a statement
of the effect on surrounding land uses;
      13.   A description of the modifications and exceptions from this title,
if any, or from the Village subdivision control ordinance, if any, which are
being requested as part of the application for the establishment of a district;
      14.   A development plan, showing proposed phasing of the project and
estimated time of completion for each phase; and (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987)
      15.   Prior to final plat approval, the developer shall submit
declarations of covenants, conditions and restrictions and a maintenance plan
for the proposed district. Said documents shall be subject to review and
approval by the Village Attorney, Village Engineer and Village Planner. (Ord.
87-29, 6-22-1987; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
   D.   Concept Plan Approval:
      1.   Planning And Zoning Commission Action:
         a.   After the concept plan submittals have been presented and
reviewed during the public hearing, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall
submit its recommendation with respect to the application to the village board
of trustees. A recommendation shall require a concurring vote of a majority of
those members present, with a minimum of four (4) concurring votes. The
planning and zoning commission may recommend: (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987; amd. Ord.
2014-48, 10-27-2014)
            (1)   Approval of the application, including any, all or none of
the modifications to this title or the village subdivision control ordinance
requested by the applicant, if any;
            (2)   Approval of the application, with conditions, or changes or
revisions to the plans; or
            (3)   Disapproval of the application; (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987)
         b.   Any recommendation by the planning and zoning commission for the
grant of any, all or none of the modifications to this title or the village
subdivision control ordinance requested by the applicant, or any recommendation
by the planning and zoning commission that conditions, changes or revisions to
the concept plan submittals be required, shall be based on findings of fact
that said modifications to this title or the village subdivision control
ordinance, and/or conditions, changes or revisions to the concept plan
submittals are the following: (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-
2014)
            (1)   Necessary in the interest and needs of the community and in
keeping with the intent of this title;
            (2)   Necessary or desirable and appropriate with respect to the
primary purpose of the district;
            (3)   Will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of other
property in the immediate vicinity, nor substantially diminish and/or impair
property values within the surrounding neighborhood, and are in accordance with
good planning standards; and
            (4)   Will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health,
safety, morals, comfort or general welfare; (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987)
         c.   The planning and zoning commission shall set forth the reasons
for its recommendation in a statement of findings of fact and recommendations,
which shall be forwarded to the village board within forty five (45) days after
the close of the hearing as follows: (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987; amd. Ord. 2014-48,
10-27-2014)
            (1)   Any requested exceptions or modifications from this title or
from the village subdivision control ordinance shall be set forth in the
statement of findings of fact and recommendations; (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987)
            (2)   In the event of a favorable recommendation, the planning and
zoning commission shall specify particular conditions to be incorporated into
an approval of the application, which may or may not include requested
exceptions or modifications from this title;
      2.   Board Of Trustees Action: Within sixty (60) days after receipt of
the planning and zoning commission recommendation, the board of trustees shall
either approve, approve with conditions, disapprove or send the application
back to the developer and the planning and zoning commission for modification
and review in accordance with the following: (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987; amd. Ord.
2014-48, 10-27-2014)
         a.   An approval with conditions shall state what additions or
deletions from the application as submitted shall be made in the application as
approved; and
         b.   Any exceptions or modifications from this title or the village
subdivision control ordinance that are granted by the village board of trustees
must be clearly stated and identified as part of the approval.
   E.   Preparation Of Development Ordinance:
      1.   Upon review and approval of the concept plans by the village board,
the village attorney shall prepare a development ordinance granting the
business park district planned unit development for seventy five (75) to two
hundred fifty (250) acres classification to the property for adoption by the
village board. Said development ordinance and the business park ordinance
(unless specific provision[s] thereof have been modified in the development
ordinance) shall control development of the property. This ordinance shall
contain:
         a.   A list of exhibits which document the approved development plan;
and
         b.   A list of exceptions or modifications from the business park
ordinance and any restrictions and conditions imposed by the Board of Trustees;
      2.   After adoption of the development ordinance by the Board of
Trustees, said ordinance shall not take effect unless the development ordinance
shall be signed by the owners of the property in a district within sixty (60)
days thereafter, assuring the Village that the development will be carried out
in full compliance with the concept plans and within the time frame established
by the development plan or as otherwise agreed to by the owners and the
Village.
   F.   Final Plat Of Subdivision: Based upon the approved plan, the developer
shall submit a final plat of subdivision in accordance with the process set
forth in the Village subdivision regulations.
   G.   Final Site Plan Approval For Individual Lots:
      1.   All lots within the district shall be developed according to the
approved concept plans, development ordinance, and all regulations and
restrictions contained in the business park ordinance.
      2.   Prior to the issuance of a building permit, the owner of a
particular lot or tract within the district shall submit six (6) copies of the
final site plan, at a scale not less than one inch equals fifty feet (1" =
50'), to Village staff for review and approval. The following information shall
be submitted in association with the site plan:
         a.   Site information, including:
            (1)   Name and address of the owner, applicant, planner, architect,
engineer and landscape architect;
            (2)   Date, scale, and north arrow;
            (3)   Total acreage;
            (4)   Title by which the property or project is to be referred; and
            (5)   Proof of ownership.
         b.   A plat of survey of the lot for which approval is being sought,
including a legal description of the subject lot or tract or, where a
subdivision is being sought, a plat of the subdivision.
         c.   Overall development plan showing the relation of the particular
site to the approved concept plans and existing developed lots.
         d.   Location and size of all structures, both existing and proposed.
         e.   Ground elevations of the parcel.
         f.   Location of floodplain areas, wetlands and existing vegetation.
(Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987)
         g.   Soil analysis, if required by the Village Engineer. (Ord. 87-29,
6-22-1987; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
         h.   Dimensions of all minimum yards and spaces between structures.
         i.   Location and dimensions of all fences and walls.
         j.   A landscape plan, prepared by a landscape architect.
         k.   Vehicular, pedestrian and service access, including:
            (1)   The width of the access drive.
            (2)   Identification and location of existing and proposed curb
lines, property lines, sidewalks, and streets or drives.
            (3)   Identification and location of existing and proposed parking
regulations and signs, traffic signals, utility poles, light standards and fire
hydrants.
         l.   Off street parking and loading facilities, including numbers of
spaces, dimensions of stalls and berths, and provision for screening such
facilities, if required.
         m.   Architectural elevations, including final architectural and
building plans, depicting the buildings for which final approval is being
sought.
         n.   Details on signage, including location, height, width, area,
colors, and method of illumination.
         o.   Details on proposed lighting, including locations, size, height
and method of illumination, including a point by point illumination plan,
showing foot-candle intensities.
         p.   Outdoor storage areas, if any.
         q.   Waste disposal facilities, trash bins, and provision for
screening such facilities and trash bins.
         r.   Preliminary engineering, drainage and grading plans. (Ord. 87-29,
6-22-1987)
Final engineering plans shall be submitted and approved by the Village Engineer
prior to the issuance of a building permit. (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987; amd. 2012
Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
      3.   During final plan review of any plans which do not require site plan
review by the Planning and Zoning Commission and Village Board, Village staff
shall report to the Planning and Zoning Commission and Village Board on a
regular and continuing basis, at public meetings, concerning proposed projects
and buildings and the progress of development.
   H.   Site Plan Review By Planning And Zoning Commission And Village Board:
If, during final plan review, or review of plans which are submitted in
accordance with requirements of other sections of this title, Village staff
determines that plans submitted for a particular lot are inconsistent with the
development ordinance (including conditions contained therein, if any), the
approved concept plans, or the requirements of this title, then plans shall be
subject to review and approval by the Planning and Zoning Commission and
Village Board in accordance with the following procedures:
      1.   The applicant shall submit to the Planning and Zoning Commission and
Village Board all plans and information listed in subsection G2 of this
section;
      2.   a. The request for final approval shall be considered by the
Planning and Zoning Commission at a regular or special meeting; no public
hearing shall be required; (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-
2014)
         b.   However, any requested exception to, or modification from, bulk
regulations for a perimeter lot which abuts the boundary line of a district, or
changes to the approved buffer yard, shall require written notification by the
owner or contract purchaser of all property owners within five hundred feet
(500') of said perimeter lot;
         c.   Said notice shall state the time, place, and purpose of such
meeting; shall be sent by certified mail with return receipt requested, not
less than fifteen (15) days in advance of the public meeting; and shall be
properly addressed as shown on the Tax Assessor's rolls; and (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-
1987)
         d.   The owner or contract purchaser shall file with the Village
Engineer a sworn affidavit, which shall include a copy of the notice and names
and addresses of all persons to which said notice was sent; said affidavit
shall be accepted as verification of required notification of the public
meeting; (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
      3.   a. After reviewing the plans, materials and testimony presented
during the public meeting, the Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend:
(Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
            (1)   Approval of the application;
            (2)   Approval of the application with conditions; or
            (3)   Disapproval of the application; (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987)
         b.   The Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend, or the Village
Board may require, changes or revisions to the plans as are deemed necessary in
the interest and needs of the community, provided they are in keeping with the
intent of this title, and in accordance with good planning standards;
         c.   (1) The Planning and Zoning Commission shall set forth the
reasons for its recommendation in the statement of findings of fact and
recommendations which shall be forwarded to the Village Board within forty five
(45) days, or as otherwise agreed to by the Planning and Zoning Commission and
the applicant; (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
            (2)   Any requested exceptions or modifications from this title or
from the Village subdivision control ordinance shall be clearly documented in
the statement of findings of fact and recommendations; (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987)
            (3)   In the event of a favorable recommendation, the planning and
zoning commission shall specify particular conditions to be incorporated into
an approval of the application, which may or may not include requested
exceptions or modifications from this title;
      4.   At its next regularly scheduled meeting following receipt of the
planning and zoning commission's recommendations, or such longer period as
might be agreed to by the applicant, the corporate authorities shall consider
such ordinances and adopt such resolutions as required to grant final approval
of the proposed development;
      5.   The planning and zoning commission and the board of trustees need
not approve any final plan which deviates from the concept plans where such
deviation results in a change which would: (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987; amd. Ord.
2014-48, 10-27-2014)
         a.   Alter the concept, character or intent of the overall development
as set forth in the concept plan;
         b.   Negatively affect the public health, welfare and safety;
         c.   Substantially decrease the value of surrounding property;
         d.   Decrease the aesthetics and functions of the natural environment,
which shall include, but not be limited to, conditions pertaining to
floodplains, soil and geologic characteristics and preservation of vegetation;
         e.   Significantly reduce (by more than 50 percent) or eliminate the
fifty foot (50') perimeter buffer yards which abut, or are across the street
from, a residential district;
         f.   Adversely affect the capacity of the public utilities to be
constructed by or for the village, unless the developer agrees to eliminate any
such adverse effect without cost to the village over and above the cost to have
been incurred by the village, if any, prior to such change;
         g.   Must be in accordance with good planning standards; and
      6.   The corporate authorities shall not unreasonably withhold approval,
nor impose any unreasonable restrictions or conditions thereon, with respect to
any proposed development that is in substantial conformity with the approved
concept plans and development ordinance for the district.
   I.   Issuance Of Permits:
      1.   Building and occupancy permits shall be required for each structure
in a district.
      2.   No building permit relating to any part of a district shall be
issued prior to the approval of a final plan for such part of the district, in
accordance with the provisions of subsection G of this section; provided,
however, that:
         a.   Construction of sewer, water and other utility improvements as
well as street and roadway improvements may proceed at any time following
adoption of the development ordinance by the board of trustees and execution of
the ordinance by the property owners in accordance with subsection E of this
section; and
         b.   All construction shall be in accordance with the approved set of
plans, requirements of this title and other applicable village ordinances, and
any conditions for development that may have been imposed upon the subject
property by the village board. (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987)
      3.   The building and zoning official shall issue all necessary permits
for all or part of the project once the applicant has demonstrated full
compliance with all restrictions and/or conditions referenced in the
development ordinance. (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987; amd. 2012 Code)
11-10A-12: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this article shall control in the event of any conflict
between a section of this article and other provision(s) of this title;
otherwise, any applicable provision(s) of this title shall apply to a business
park district. (Ord. 87-29, 6-22-1987; amd. 2012 Code)
ARTICLE B. PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT OF 250 ACRES OR MORE
SECTION:
11-10B-1: General Nature And Purpose
11-10B-2: Definition And Size Limitation
11-10B-3: Permitted Uses
11-10B-4: Land Use Region; Percentage Limitations
11-10B-5: Zoning Standards
11-10B-6: Dwelling Standards
11-10B-7: Location Of Buildings
11-10B-8: Zoning Lot
11-10B-9: Separation Requirements
11-10B-10: Land Area Per Dwelling Unit
11-10B-11: Approval Of Bulk Requirements For Certain Uses And Temporary Uses
11-10B-12: Parking And Loading Requirements
11-10B-13: Conveyance Of Property Not Included In Approved Final Plan
11-10B-14: Inapplicable Provisions Of This Title
11-10B-15: Procedure For Establishing District
11-10B-1: GENERAL NATURE AND PURPOSE:
A planned unit development district of 250 acres or more (hereinafter in this
article sometimes referred to as "district") is of such a substantially
different character from planned developments of smaller size that the public
welfare requires that they be treated in a manner different from such smaller
planned developments. The purpose of this article is to set forth specific
additional standards and exceptions to govern the recommendations of the
planning and zoning commission and the action of the board of trustees with
respect to granting approvals for such districts. These regulations are
designed to provide for an integrated development considering all the elements
of good land planning so as to provide an adequate relationship between
structures and land uses, while at the same time providing for adequate space,
light, air, use and bulk limitations, to promote the health, safety and welfare
of the village and its residents. (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973; amd. Ord. 2014-48,
10-27-2014)
11-10B-2: DEFINITION AND SIZE LIMITATION:
A "planned unit development district of 250 acres or more" is a tract of land
which includes two (2) or more principal uses that would require classification
of the tract into two (2) or more standard zoning districts and which is
developed as a unit. A district must include at least two hundred fifty (250)
acres of contiguous property; provided, that after establishment of a district
in accordance with the procedures set forth in section
11-10B-15 of this article, contiguous property of any size, whether or not
under the same ownership, may be added to such district; and provided further,
that properties separated by highways, streets, public ways or railroad or
other public utility rights of way may be deemed contiguous for the purpose of
qualifying as a district. If any area once having been zoned a planned unit
development district of 250 acres or more should be reduced in size below two
hundred fifty (250) acres as a result of disconnection, rezoning, or for any
other reason, such lands as shall remain within the village shall, after a
public hearing before the planning and zoning commission, be rezoned by the
board of trustees to the zone in which such land could be most appropriately
developed, unless otherwise provided in any annexation agreement pursuant to
which such zoning as a planned unit development district of 250 acres or more
was granted. (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
11-10B-3: PERMITTED USES:
   A.   Residence Districts: All permitted uses in the residence districts
established by chapter 7 of this title are permitted uses in a zoning district
established pursuant to section
11-10B-15 of this article within a residential use area established by this
article; all special uses in the residence districts established by chapter 7
of this title are special uses in a zoning district established pursuant to
section
11-10B-15 of this article within a residential use area established by this
article. (Ord. 2007-20, 5-24-2007)
   B.   Business Districts: All permitted uses in the business districts
established by chapter 8 of this title are permitted uses in a zoning district
established pursuant to section
11-10B-15 of this article within a commercial use area; all special uses in the
business districts created by chapter 8 of this title are special uses in a
zoning district established pursuant to section
11-10B-15 of this article within a commercial use area, with the addition of
the following use:
Brewpubs, as defined in section
11-2-2 of this title, are special uses in a zoning district established
pursuant to section
11-10B-15 of this article within the Stratford Square Mall Shopping Center
property only. The Stratford Square property shall be inclusive of any internal
or external physical spaces, as well as all parking surfaces adjacent to and
owned by the same. (Ord. 2017-09, 3-13-2017)
   C.   Manufacturing District: All permitted uses in the manufacturing
district established by chapter 9 of this title are permitted uses in a zoning
district established pursuant to section
11-10B-15 of this article within an industrial use area; all special uses in
the manufacturing district established by chapter 9 of this title are special
uses in an industrial use area. (Ord. 2007-20, 5-24-2007)
11-10B-4: LAND USE REGION; PERCENTAGE LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Classification Of Regions:
      1.   In preparing the tentative development plan, preliminary plans and
final plans required by section
11-10B-15 of this article, the developer of the district may divide the
district into separate land use regions, which land use regions may be
designated into all or any of the following classifications:
         a.   Residential land use region;
         b.   Business land use region; and
         c.   Manufacturing land use region.
      2.   The developer may classify a portion of a district as a business
land use region if the tentative development plan submitted by the developer
provides for not less than one hundred (100) acres of land in said land use
region to be devoted to commercial uses. The developer may classify a portion
of a district as a manufacturing land use region if the tentative development
plan submitted by the developer provides for not less than one hundred (100)
acres of land in said land use region to be devoted to industrial uses;
provided, that no land in such land use region may be devoted to residential
uses.
   B.   Percentage Limitations Of Use Within Each Region: In the event the
developer of a district elects to divide the district into any or all of the
land use regions provided in subsection A of this section, then the developer
shall allocate, in the tentative development plan submitted in accordance with
subsection 11-10B-15A of this article, the portion of the total acreage of each
such land use region devoted to residential, commercial and industrial uses,
respectively; provided, that such allocation may take the form of a range of
maximum and minimum percentage limitations for each such use.
   C.   Computation Of Percentage Limitations: The percentage limitations
provided in subsection B of this section and in the tentative development plan
shall be applied to the land area of a land use region after deducting from
such land area all land devoted to or reserved or dedicated for: 1) aboveground
public utility buildings and structures required to service the land use
region; and 2) rights of way for public streets, highways and alleys and
easements for utilities adjacent thereto. Land devoted to or reserved or
dedicated for school and other public parkways, walkways and drainage courses
shall be included in the land area to which such percentage limitations shall
be applied. In determining the percentage of land devoted to each land use
region, land devoted to parking and private open space and park and
recreational facilities shall be included.
   D.   Recreation Area:
      1.   The tentative development plan shall also provide for recreation
areas within a residential land use region equivalent to at least thirty
percent (30%) of the total area in a single-family residential use area and
thirty five percent (35%) of the total area in a multiple-family use area. In a
multiple-family use area within a business land use region, the tentative
development plan shall provide for recreation area equivalent to at least
thirty five percent (35%) of such use area if the average density for such area
shall be below twenty five (25) dwelling units per acre, and thirty percent
(30%) of such use area if the average density for such area shall be twenty
five (25) dwelling units per acre or above.
      2.   For purposes of this subsection, "recreation area" shall be defined
as land specifically designed and intended for the active or passive
recreational use of the residents of the district and shall include, but not be
limited to, public or private play lots and parks, school sites, stormwater
detention or retention areas, if such areas are capable of being utilized for
such recreational purposes, pedestrian corridors, bicycle and equestrian trails
and greenbelt open space networks.
      3.   The board of trustees shall determine, in its reasonable discretion,
whether land is designated and intended for the recreational use of residents
of the district and, in so doing, shall consider the following factors:
         a.   The relationship of the location of the land being considered to
the residential use area which it is intended to serve.
         b.   The size and usability of the land being considered.
         c.   Other existing or proposed recreational facilities capable of
fulfilling recreational needs of the residents.
         d.   Any particular variances required by the development of an
unusual housing type.
      4.   Within the percentage limitations set forth in subsection D1 of this
section, the developer shall, to the extent that good planning allows, provide
such recreational space in the nature of play lots and neighborhood parks
generally in accordance with the following standards: (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973)
 
Classification     Approximate Size          Acres Per 1,000 People
Play lots          4,000 square feet minimum See note 1
Neighborhood parks 5 acres minimum           6.0
 
Note:
   1.    The number of play lots shall be governed by the availability of other
recreational areas within and for the benefit of the neighborhood as approved
by the planning and zoning commission and the board of trustees.
      5.   "Play lots" are small areas intended for children up to six (6) or
seven (7) years of age and shall be not less than four thousand (4,000) square
feet unless otherwise approved by the planning and zoning commission and the
board of trustees. Play lots range in size and may feature play apparatus,
paved areas for wheeled toys, benches, sand areas, small wading or spray pools
and landscaping treatment. Play lots should be located within a housing group
so that children need not cross major arterial streets to reach the play lots.
(Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
      6.   "Neighborhood parks" are defined as active and passive recreational
areas which usually serve children and adults in an urban area within a radius
of approximately one-half (1/2) mile. Neighborhood parks generally adjoin
public elementary schools and may include such features as ball diamonds and
play areas toward the interior of the site so the perimeter can be landscaped
to buffer sound and to provide a measure of safety to the public.
      7.   In fulfilling the recreational space standards as established
herein, the developer may vary the location and configuration of neighborhood
parks. The intent of this subsection D7 is to provide the developer with
adequate flexibility to create recreational space which fulfills the
recreational needs of residential residents. Neighborhood parks may be located
individually throughout a neighborhood, may be adjacent to one another and may
be of a linear configuration in part, so as to interconnect recreational areas.
The intent of the recreational space is to provide continuity of an open space
network. Plans shall provide for and ensure the distribution of adequate
recreational space of sufficient size and configuration to meet the
recreational needs of the residents. (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973)
11-10B-5: ZONING STANDARDS:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection B of this section, the standards set
forth in this article shall be applicable to all buildings and structures and
the use of all land in a district in lieu of comparable or similar standards or
requirements set forth elsewhere in this title. All provisions and requirements
set forth elsewhere in this title inconsistent with the standards set forth in
this article shall be inapplicable. Any uncertainty between the applicability
of a standard or requirement set forth elsewhere in this title and the
applicability of a standard set forth in this article shall be resolved in
favor of the standard set forth in this article.
   B.   Since the establishment of the planned unit development district of 250
acres or more in 1973, the village has more than doubled in size and has been
transformed from an outlying community with an almost rural character to a
centrally located community that is nearly built out. As a result, the need to
preserve open space and buffers is even more important than when the district
was first established. Furthermore, as the size and number of motor vehicles
has increased, it is in the interest of the village to update the zoning
standards that guide development within the district to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare and to establish certain bulk standards and
regulations for development within the district to be consistent with similar
standards that are applicable elsewhere within the village. Accordingly, any
application submitted on or after March 24, 2008, for development,
redevelopment or modification of any land, or improvements existing thereon,
within the planned unit development district of 250 acres or more, shall
conform to the following zoning standards:
      1.   Nonresidential Buildings And Structures: All nonresidential
buildings and structures shall conform to the bulk regulations of the B-
3 general service business district. To the extent that the separation
requirements for buildings and structures set forth in this article are
inconsistent with the requirements of the B-3 general service business
district, the more restrictive requirements shall apply. (Ord. 2008-14, 3-24-
2008)
      2.   Residential Buildings And Structures: All residential buildings and
structures shall conform to the requirements of the respective residential
zoning district (i.e., R-1, R-2, R-2A, R-2B, R-2C, R-3, R-4, and R-5) with
which the modification to the current development or newly proposed development
or redevelopment is most similar. To the extent that the separation
requirements for buildings and structures set forth in this article are
inconsistent with the requirements of the respective R-1, R-2, R-2A, R-2B, R-
2C, R-3, R-4, and R-5 districts with which the current or proposed development
or redevelopment is most similar, the more restrictive requirements shall
apply. (Ord. 2008-14, 3-24-2008; amd. Ord. 2014-46, 10-27-2014)
11-10B-6: DWELLING STANDARDS:
   A.   Single-Family Dwellings: Each detached single-family one- story
dwelling shall have a total ground floor area of not less than one thousand one
hundred (1,100) square feet; provided, however, that not more than thirty
percent (30%) of such single-family dwelling may have a total ground floor area
of less than one thousand one hundred (1,100) square feet, but not less than
nine hundred (900) square feet; and provided further, that no such unit of less
than one thousand one hundred (1,100) square feet shall have more than three
(3) bedrooms. Each detached single-family dwelling of more than one story shall
have a total floor area of not less than one thousand one hundred (1,100)
square feet.
   B.   Two-Family Dwellings: Each detached one-story two-family dwelling shall
have a total floor area per dwelling unit of not less than one thousand one
hundred (1,100) square feet; provided, however, that not more than thirty
percent (30%) of such two-family dwelling may have a total ground floor area of
less than one thousand one hundred (1,100) square feet, but not less than nine
hundred (900) square feet; and provided further, that no such unit of less than
one thousand one hundred (1,100) square feet shall have more than three (3)
bedrooms. Each detached two-family dwelling of more than one story shall have a
total floor area per dwelling unit of not less than one thousand one hundred
(1,100) square feet.
   C.   One-Family Attached Dwellings, Multiplex Units And Town Row Houses:
Each attached single-family dwelling, multiplex unit and town row houses of one
story shall have a total floor area of not less than seven hundred fifty (750)
square feet. Each such dwelling of more than one story shall have a total floor
area of not less than nine hundred fifty (950) square feet.
   D.   Multiple-Family Dwellings And Apartments: Multiple-family dwellings and
apartments shall have a minimum total floor area per dwelling unit as follows:
      1.   Efficiency apartments: Four hundred fifty (450) square feet.
      2.   Apartments with one bedroom: Six hundred fifty (650) square feet.
      3.   Apartments with two (2) bedrooms: Eight hundred fifty (850) square
feet.
      4.   Apartments with three (3) bedrooms: One thousand (1,000) square
feet.
      5.   Apartments with four (4) or more bedrooms: One thousand one hundred
(1,100) square feet.
   E.   Determining Ground Floor Area Or Floor Area In All Dwellings: In all
cases, ground floor area or floor area shall be measured from the outside of
the exterior walls, shall include utility rooms, but shall not include cellars,
basements, open porches, balconies, breezeways, garages and other spaces that
are not used frequently or during extended periods of time for living, eating
or sleeping purposes. Neither a cellar nor a basement shall be considered as a
story for purposes of this section. (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973)
11-10B-7: LOCATION OF BUILDINGS:
   A.   Residential Use Area: In residential use areas of the district, the
minimum distance between the exterior wall of any building and a boundary line
of the district or a boundary line of the residential use area shall be twenty
feet (20') or one-half (1/2) the height of the building, whichever is greater.
   B.   Commercial Use Areas: In commercial use areas of the district, the
minimum distance between the exterior wall of any building and a boundary line
of the district or a boundary line of the commercial use area, if the property
abutting such boundary line is in a residential use area of the district, or in
an area outside the district zoned for residential use, or if such building
includes dwelling units, shall be thirty five feet (35') or one-half (1/2) the
height of the building, whichever is greater.
   C.   Industrial Use: In industrial use areas of the district, the minimum
distance between the exterior wall of any building and a boundary line of the
district or a boundary line of the industrial use area, if the property
abutting such boundary line is in a residential use area of the district or in
an area outside the district zoned for residential use, shall be three feet
(3') or one-half (1/2) the height of the building, whichever is greater.
   D.   Regulations In All Use Regions: The following provisions governing the
location of buildings in relation to boundary lines of the district and in
relation to boundary lines of the use areas within the district shall apply in
all land use regions in the district:
      1.   Where a boundary line of the district or of a use area in the
district is in a public street, alley, railroad, or similar right of way, the
minimum distance provided herein shall be measured from the nearest right of
way line of such street, alley, railroad or similar right of way. (Ord. 73-69,
12-20-1973)
      2.   The area between a boundary line of the district or of a use area in
the district and the minimum distance at which the exterior wall of any
building may be located may contain the following permitted encroachments:
         a.   Fences subject to compliance with the limitations contained in
chapter 19, "Fencing And Screening", of this title;
         b.   Open terraces not over four feet (4') above the average level of
the adjoining ground, but not including a permanently roofed over terrace or
porch; awnings and canopies;
         c.   Steps, four feet (4') or less above the average level of the
adjoining ground, which are necessary for access to a building or building
site; chimneys projecting eighteen inches (18") or less;
         d.   Recreational and laundry drying equipment;
         e.   Arbors and trellises;
         f.   Flagpoles;
         g.   Walls not exceeding six feet (6') in height above the average
level of the adjoining ground;
         h.   Balconies, breezeways and open porches;
         i.   One-story bay windows projecting three feet (3') or less; and
         j.   Overhanging eaves and gutters projecting three feet (3') or less;
and air conditioning pads. (Ord. 2012-27, 6-11-2012)
11-10B-8: ZONING LOT:
Within the district, any parcel of land may be shown as a zoning lot on any
preliminary or final plan covering all or any part of the district, provided
such parcel of land meets the zoning lot requirements set forth in this
article. Subject to the modifications and exceptions provided in this article,
all provisions set forth elsewhere in this title which refer or apply to a
zoning lot shall refer or apply to the zoning lots so shown on any such
preliminary or final plan; provided, that: a) a parcel of land shown as a
zoning lot on any preliminary plan may be divided into two (2) or more zoning
lots on a final plan for all or a part of the property covered by such
preliminary plan if such zoning lots on the final plan comply with all
applicable minimum requirements elsewhere provided for herein; and b) a zoning
lot may not be intersected by a public highway, public street or railroad right
of way. Except as otherwise limited by this article, one or more principal
buildings and one or more accessory buildings may be located on a zoning lot. A
zoning lot may be used for any one or more of the uses permitted in the land
use area or areas in which the zoning lot is located. (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973)
11-10B-9: SEPARATION REQUIREMENTS:
The separation requirements in the district shall be as follows; except, that
any separation requirements not specified herein shall be determined with
regard to reasonable minimum planning standards: (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973)
   A.   Residential Use Areas:
      1.   The minimum distance between the exterior wall of any building and
the right of way line of a primary arterial road shall be sixty feet (60');
provided, however, the planning and zoning commission may recommend, and the
board of trustees may approve, a minimum distance of not less than thirty feet
(30') if proper separation exists between the closest right of way line and
such exterior wall of any building. Such separation must provide for limiting
the potential problems associated with the sound and sight of vehicular traffic
and may include landscaping, berming, variable separation of distances along
the right of way line and between exterior walls of buildings, fences, walls or
any other suitable treatment. The minimum distance between the closest right of
way line of any other public street and the exterior wall of any building shall
be thirty feet (30') or one-half (1/2) the height of the building, whichever is
greater. No building shall be constructed on any easement granted in lieu of a
right of way adjacent and along a private street. The minimum distance between
the closest edge of pavement of any private street and the exterior wall of
dwelling structures shall be thirty feet (30') or one-half (1/2) the height of
the building, whichever is greater; provided, however, that the planning and
zoning commission may recommend, and the board of trustees may approve, a
minimum distance not less than the following, if the planning and zoning
commission and board of trustees find that such reduction will encourage good
site design: (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
         a.   Single-family cluster dwellings: Five feet (5');
         b.   Other single-family detached, two-family townhouse and multiplex
dwellings: Twenty feet (20'); and
         c.   Apartments: Thirty feet (30') or one-half (1/2) the height of the
building, whichever is greater.
      2.   The minimum distance between adjacent single-family dwellings shall
be twenty feet (20'); provided, however, that no such minimum distance shall
apply to single-family cluster housing. For purposes of this subsection A2, the
term "single- family cluster housing" shall mean a group of single-family
housing units around a common courtyard or other type of common open space
area, which units may or may not be attached to each other.
      3.   The minimum distance between a detached single-family dwelling and
an adjacent town row house or multiplex unit shall be forty feet (40').
      4.   The minimum distance between detached single-family dwellings and an
adjacent apartment building shall be sixty feet (60') or one-half (1/2) the
height of the apartment building, whichever is greater.
      5.   The minimum distance between adjacent town row houses or multiplex
houses and adjacent apartment buildings shall be forty feet (40') or one-half
(1/2) the height of the apartment building, whichever is greater.
      6.   The minimum distance between a dwelling or apartment building and
the district boundary line or the boundary line of a land use region covered by
any final plan shall be twenty five feet (25') or one-half (1/2) the height of
the dwelling or building, whichever is greater.
      7.   The minimum distance between adjacent town row houses and adjacent
multiplex units shall be twenty feet (20'). (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973)
   B.   Commercial Use Areas:
      1.   The minimum distance between the exterior wall of any building and
the right of way line of a primary arterial road shall be sixty feet (60');
provided, however, the planning and zoning commission may recommend, and the
board of trustees may approve, a minimum distance of not less than thirty feet
(30') if proper separation exists between the closest right of way line and the
exterior wall of any building. Such separation must provide for good planning
associated with commercial development. Such separation treatment may include
landscaping, variable separation or distances along the right of way line and
between exterior walls of buildings or any other suitable treatment. If a
building located in a commercial use area of the district contains dwelling
units, the minimum distance between the exterior wall of that portion of such
building which contains the dwelling units and the closest right of way line of
any public street or the closest easement line of any private street shall be
thirty feet (30') or one-half (1/2) the height of the building, whichever is
greater. (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
      2.   If a building located in a commercial use area of the district
contains dwelling units, the minimum distance between any boundary of the
zoning lot on which the building is located and the exterior wall of that
portion of the building which contains the dwelling units shall be thirty feet
(30') or one-half (1/2) the height of the building, whichever is greater. (Ord.
73-69, 12-20-1973)
   C.   Industrial Use Areas:
      1.   The minimum distance between the exterior wall of any building and
the right of way line of a primary arterial road shall be sixty feet (60');
provided, however, the planning and zoning commission may recommend, and the
board of trustees may approve, a minimum distance of not less than thirty feet
(30') if proper separation exists between the closest right of way line and the
exterior wall of any building. Such separation must provide for good planning
associated with industrial development. Such separation treatment may include
landscaping, variable separation or distances along the right of way line and
between exterior walls of buildings or any other suitable treatment. In
industrial use areas of the district, the minimum distance between the closest
right of way line of any public street or closest easement line of any private
street and the exterior wall of any building shall be thirty feet (30') or one-
half (1/2) the height of the building, whichever is greater. In such yard
areas, no storage of material or equipment or parking of motor vehicles shall
take place, and such yard areas shall be landscaped. Such landscaping
requirement shall not prevent the location within such yard areas of driveways,
pathways, utility easements and structures and similar appurtenances. (Ord. 73-
69, 12-20-1973; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
      2.   In industrial use areas of the district, the minimum distance
between adjacent principal buildings shall be thirty feet (30'), and the
minimum distance between a principal building and an accessory building shall
be twenty feet (20'). The required area between adjacent detached dwellings and
apartment buildings, between a dwelling or apartment building and the boundary
of the use area covered by any final plan, between adjacent buildings
containing town row houses or multiplex units or between buildings and the
closest right of way line of public streets or closest easement line of private
streets or the boundary of a zoning lot may contain the permitted encroachments
listed in subsection 11-10B-7D2 of this article. Neither a cellar nor a
basement shall be considered a story for the purpose of this subsection C2.
(Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973)
11-10B-10: LAND AREA PER DWELLING UNIT:
   A.   Single-Family Detached Dwellings On Individual Zoning Lots: Each zoning
lot which contains not more than one single-family dwelling shall have a
minimum land area of nine thousand (9,000) square feet.
   B.   Two-Family Dwellings On Individual Zoning Lots: Each zoning lot which
contains not more than one 2-family dwelling shall have a minimum land area of
nine thousand (9,000) square feet.
   C.   Zoning Lots With Multiple-Family Dwellings And/Or Two Or More Single-
Family Or Two-Family Dwellings On Individual Zoning Lots: Each zoning lot which
contains two (2) or more single-family detached dwellings, two (2) or more two-
family dwellings, one or more town row houses, one or more multiplex units, one
or more multiple-family dwellings or apartment buildings, or any combination of
the foregoing, shall have a minimum land area per dwelling unit in accordance
with the following:
 
For each single-family detached dwelling    7,700 square feet
For each two-family dwelling                9,000 square feet
For each town row house                     4,350 square feet per dwelling unit
For each multiplex dwelling unit            3,110 square feet per dwelling unit
For multiple-family dwellings and apartment 850 square feet per dwelling unit
buildings
 
   D.   Buildings Containing Dwelling Units Located In Commercial Use Areas: In
commercial use areas of the district, each zoning lot on which a building
containing dwelling units is located shall have a minimum land area per
dwelling unit in accordance with the requirements set forth in the last entry
of the table found in subsection C of this section. (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973)
11-10B-11: APPROVAL OF BULK REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN USES AND TEMPORARY USES:
The bulk requirements to be complied with in connection with any use permitted
by section
11-10B-3 of this article and any temporary use of a building or land provided
herein shall be subject to the approval of the board or trustees, which
approval may be given as part of the approval of a tentative development plan,
a preliminary plan or a final plan. Separate application for such an approval
may be submitted to the board of trustees by the developer, in writing. The
board of trustees shall promptly refer such application to the planning and
zoning commission, and the planning and zoning commission shall, within thirty
(30) days from the date of referral, submit to the board of trustees its
written recommendations with respect to such application. The planning and
zoning commission may recommend that the board of trustees approve or
disapprove the application and may, in the event of a favorable recommendation,
specify particular conditions which should be incorporated in the approval.
Within sixty (60) days after receipt of the planning and zoning commission
recommendation, the board of trustees shall either approve or disapprove the
application. An approval may be conditional and, if so, shall state what
additions or deletions from the application as submitted shall be made in the
application as approved. (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-
2014)
11-10B-12: PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Application Of Provisions: In accordance with subsection 11-10B-5B of
this article, any application submitted on or after March 24, 2008, for
development, redevelopment or modification of any land or improvements existing
thereon within the planned unit development district of 250 acres or more shall
conform with the off street loading and off street parking regulations of
chapter 13 of this title. Any such existing improvements for which
modification, removal or redevelopment is not sought on or after March 24,
2008, shall conform to the requirements of this section. (Ord. 2008-14, 3-24-
2008)
   B.   Definition: Unless otherwise stated, the term "floor area", as used in
this section shall mean the gross floor area of a building or structure used or
intended to be used for service to the public as customers, patrons, clients,
patients or tenants, including areas occupied by fixtures and equipment used
for display or sale of merchandise. The term "floor area", for the purposes of
this section, shall not include any area used for:
      1.   Storage accessory to the principal use or uses of a building.
      2.   Incidental repairs.
      3.   Processing or packaging of merchandise.
      4.   Show windows or offices incidental to the management or maintenance
of a store or a building.
      5.   Restrooms.
      6.   Utilities.
      7.   Dressing, fitting or alteration rooms.
      8.   Malls or service corridors.
      9.   Parking facilities.
      10.   Heating, ventilating and air conditioning plants and similar areas.
   C.   Description:
      1.   Parking Space: A "required off street parking space" shall be an
area of not less than one hundred sixty one and one-half (1611/2) square feet
nor less than eight and one-half feet (81/2') wide by nineteen feet (19') long
(exclusive of access drives or aisles, ramps, columns, or office and work
areas) accessible from streets or alleys, or from private driveways or aisles
leading to streets or alleys, to be used for the storage or parking of
passenger automobiles and commercial vehicles under one and one-half (11/2)
tons' capacity where permitted under this title. Aisles between vehicular
parking spaces shall not be less than twelve feet (12') in width when serving
vehicles parked at an angle of forty five degrees (45°) to the axis of an aisle
accommodating one-way traffic, nor less than twenty feet (20') in width when
serving vehicles parked perpendicular to the axis of an aisle accommodating
two-way traffic, nor less than seventeen feet (17') in width when serving
vehicles parked at an angle of sixty degrees (60°) to the axis of an aisle
accommodating two-way traffic.
      2.   Loading Berth: A required off street loading berth shall be at least
ten feet (10') in width by at least forty five feet (45') in length, exclusive
of aisle and maneuvering space, and shall have a vertical clearance of at least
fourteen feet (14').
   D.   Location:
      1.   Parking Spaces: Parking spaces required under this article shall be
located as follows:
         a.   For single-family detached or two-family dwellings located on
individual zoning lots, the required off street parking facilities shall be
provided on the same zoning lot with the dwelling they are required to serve.
         b.   For single-family detached or two-family dwellings not located on
individual zoning lots and for multiple-family dwellings, apartments, multiplex
units or town rowhouses, the required off street parking facilities shall be
provided on the same zoning lot where the building they are required to serve
is located or on a separate zoning lot or parcel of land, in either case, not
more than two hundred feet (200') from the nearest entrance to the building
being served, measured from the nearest point of the parking facility.
         c.   For uses other than those specified above, off street parking
facilities shall be provided on the same zoning lot as the building being
served or on a separate zoning lot or parcel of land, in either case, not over
one thousand feet (1,000') from the nearest entrance to the building being
served, measured from the nearest point of the parking facility; provided, that
the zoning lot or parcel of land intended for the parking facility is located
in the same use area as is the building which the parking facility is intended
to serve. (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973)
      2.   Loading Spaces: All required loading berths shall be located on the
same zoning lot as the use to be served, and no portion of vehicles shall
project into a street or alley. No loading berth for vehicles of a capacity of
more than two (2) tons shall be located less than thirty feet (30') from the
boundary of a residential use area or area outside the district zoned for
residential use. The entrance to a loading berth shall not be located within
thirty feet (30') of the nearest point of right-of-way of the intersection of
any two (2) public streets. Each required off street loading berth shall be
designed with appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a
manner which will least interfere with traffic movement and shall be subject to
approval of the Village Engineer. (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973; amd. 2012 Code; Ord.
2017-42, 11-13-2017)
   E.   Number Of Spaces:
      1.   Parking Spaces: The number of required off street parking spaces
shall be as follows:
Type Of Use Parking Space(s) Required
Type Of Use                             Parking Space(s) Required
Appliance stores, wholesale stores or   41/2 for each 1,000 square feet of
household equipment shops               floor area
Banks                                   1 for each 350 square feet of usable
                                        floor area
Bowling alleys                          7 for each lane
                                        13/4 per dwelling unit; except, that
                                        11/2 spaces per dwelling unit shall be
                                        required for each efficiency dwelling
Buildings containing 3 or more dwelling unit located therein, plus a reasonable
units                                   amount of guest parking area which may
                                        be provided on the same basis as is set
                                        forth for single- and two-family
                                        dwellings in this subsection E1
Business or professional offices, or    1 for each 250 square feet of usable
public administration building          floor area
Churches and synagogues                 1 for each 4 seats provided in said
                                        buildings or structures
Convention halls, dance halls, skating  1 for each 100 square feet of floor
rinks, assembly halls, exhibition       area used for assembly
halls, or other places of assembly
Establishments handling the sale and
consumption on the premises of          10 for each 1,000 square feet of floor
alcoholic beverages, food or            area devoted to consumption
refreshments
Furniture stores and furniture repair   3 for each 1,000 square feet of floor
shops                                   area
Hospitals                               3 for each 100 square feet of floor
                                        area
                                        1 for each guestroom or sleeping room,
Hotels and clubs                        plus 8 for each 1,000 square feet of
                                        floor area devoted to ballrooms and
                                        dining rooms
Machinery sales and service             1 for each employee
establishments
Manufacturing and industrial uses;
research and testing laboratories;      1 for each 2 employees, based upon the
laundry and dry cleaning plants;        maximum number of persons to be
printing, binding, publishing and       employed at any 1 work period during
issuing of newspapers, periodicals,     the day or night, plus such additional
books, and other reading matter;        parking facilities as shall be required
telephone exchanges; warehouses and     for all vehicles used in the conduct of
storage buildings; engraving shops;     the enterprise
assembly of materials and products; and
other similar uses
Medical or dental clinics               1 for each 200 square feet of floor
                                        area
                                        The sum of the requirements for the
                                        various individual uses, computed
                                        separately in accordance with this
Mixed uses                              subsection E1, and parking facilities
                                        for 1 use may be considered as
                                        providing the required parking
                                        facilities for any other use if a time
                                        diversity factor is shown
Mortuaries or funeral parlors           1 for each 100 square feet of floor
                                        area used as a chapel or parlor
Motor vehicle sales                     5 for each 1,000 square feet of floor
                                        area
Private clubs or lodges (without        4 for each 1,000 square feet of floor
sleeping rooms)                         area
Retail stores and service shops         41/2 for each 1,000 square feet of
(individual or in groups) under 1 roof  floor area devoted to retail sales
Sanatoriums, convalescent homes,        1 for each 1,000 square feet of floor
nursing homes, or homes for the aged    area
Schools:                                 
   Elementary and junior high        1 for each faculty member and other
                                        full time employees
   High                              1 for each 6 students
                                        2 for each family dwelling unit, plus a
                                        reasonable amount of guest parking area
                                        which may be provided on public streets
                                        as well as private streets in
Single- and two-family dwellings        reasonable proximity to the dwelling
                                        units being served, if such private
                                        streets are wide enough to accommodate
                                        such parking and still allow reasonable
                                        traffic flow
Stadia, sports arenas, auditoriums and
gymnasiums (other than incidental to a  1 for each 4 seats
school)
Theaters:                                
   Indoor                            1 for each 3 seats
   Outdoor                           Reservoir space equal to 10 percent of
                                        the capacity
                                        1 for each guestroom, sleeping room or
Tourist homes, cabins or motels         suite, plus 1 additional space for the
                                        owner or manager on the premises
 
      2.   Loading Berths: In all use areas where property uses include the
loading and unloading of materials or merchandise from vehicles, off street
loading and unloading facilities shall be provided in accordance with the
following requirements:
 
Type Of Use                             Number Of Loading And Unloading Berth
                                        (s) Required
Banks, business or professional offices 1, plus 1 additional for each
or public administration buildings      additional 100,000 square feet of gross
containing 40,000 to 100,000 square     floor area or fraction thereof in
feet of gross floor space               excess of 100,000 square feet
Buildings containing bowling alleys,    1, plus 1 additional for each
taverns, restaurants, or any retail     additional 100,000 square feet of gross
shops and having 10,000 to 100,000      floor area or fraction thereof in
square feet of gross floor area         excess of 100,000 square feet
Buildings containing furniture and      1, plus 1 additional for each
appliance stores, motor vehicle sales,  additional 25,000 square feet of gross
wholesale stores, household equipment   floor area or fraction thereof in
or machinery sales and having 8,000 to  excess of 25,000 square feet
25,000 square feet of gross floor area
Buildings containing manufacturing
uses; research and testing
laboratories; laundry and dry cleaning
establishments; printing, binding,
publishing and issuing of newspapers,
periodicals, books and other reading    1, plus 1 additional for each
matter; warehouse and storage           additional 60,000 square feet of gross
facilities; engraving shops; assembly   floor area in excess of 40,000 square
of materials and products; and other    feet
similar uses having more than 6,000
square feet of gross floor area,
exclusive of basement area, and less
than 40,000 square feet of gross floor
area
Hospitals or sanatoriums containing     1, plus 1 additional for each
40,000 to 100,000 square feet of gross  additional 100,000 square feet of gross
floor area                              floor area or fraction thereof in
                                        excess of 100,000 square feet
Hotels or apartment hotel buildings     1 for the first 40,000 square feet of
wherein there are contained exhibition  gross floor area, plus 1 additional for
halls, convention halls, auditoriums,   each 150,000 square feet of gross floor
office facilities or retail shops       area or fraction thereof in excess of
                                        40,000 square feet
 
   F.   Additional Parking Regulations:
      1.   Computation Of Number Of Spaces: When determination of the number of
off street parking spaces required by this section results in a requirement of
a fractional space, any fraction of one-half (1/2) or less may be disregarded,
while a fraction in excess of one-half (1/2) shall be counted as one parking
space.
      2.   Surface Of Parking Areas: All open off street parking areas, except
those accessory to single-family dwellings, shall be improved with a compacted
macadam base not less than four inches (4") thick, surfaced with asphaltic
concrete, or approved equal comparable hard surfaced, all weather, dustless
materials.
      3.   Off Street Loading Berths: All open off street loading berths shall
be improved with concrete pavement not less than six inches (6") thick, or
approved equal comparative all weather, dustless material.
      4.   Access: All off street parking facilities shall be provided with
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street, alley, or driveway in a
manner which will least interfere with traffic movements. A parking area
containing four (4) or more parking spaces shall have vehicular access thereto
over a street, alley, or driveway containing all weather, hard surfaced
pavement, and the location and route of access to such a parking area shall be
identified. No driveway across public property in a residential use area shall
have a width exceeding thirty six feet (36'), exclusive of curb returns.
      5.   Lighting: Illumination of off street parking areas shall be arranged
so as not to adversely affect adjacent residential use areas and public
streets.
      6.   Use Restrictions: Off street parking facilities accessory to
dwellings located in residential use areas shall be used solely for the parking
of passenger automobiles owned by occupants of dwellings to which such
facilities are accessory or by employees or guests of said occupants. Under no
circumstances shall parking facilities accessory to such dwellings be used for
the storage of commercial vehicles or the parking of automobiles belonging to
the owners of buildings, tenants or customers of business establishments except
as modified by subsection F7 of this section.
      7.   Nonresidential Parking In Residential Use Areas: Accessory off
street parking facilities serving nonresidential uses of property may be
permitted in any residential use area when authorized by the board of trustees,
which authorization may be given as part of the approval of a preliminary or
final plan and, in any case, shall be subject to the following requirements in
addition to all other relevant requirements of this section:
         a.   The parking facility shall be accessory to and for use in
connection with one or more nonresidential establishments located in adjoining
use areas.
         b.   The parking facility shall be used solely for the parking of
passenger automobiles.
         c.   No commercial repair work or service of any kind shall be
conducted on the parking facility.
         d.   No sign of any kind, other than signs designating entrances,
exits, and conditions of use, shall be maintained on the parking facility, and
no sign shall exceed twenty (20) square feet in area.
         e.   Each entrance to and exit from the parking facility shall be at
least five feet (5') distant from any adjacent property located in any
residential use area, except where ingress and egress to the parking facility
is provided from a public alley or public way separating the residential use
area from the parking facility.
      8.   Joint Parking Facilities: Off street facilities for different
buildings, structures or uses or for mixed uses may be provided collectively in
any use area in which separate parking facilities for each constituent use
would be permitted, and the total number of spaces so located together may be
less than the sum of the separate requirements for each use if a time diversity
factor between each use is shown.
      9.   Off Site Facilities: When required accessory off street parking
facilities are provided elsewhere than on the property on which the use served
is located, they shall be in the same possession, either by deed, long term
lease or other arrangement, as the property occupied by such use, and the owner
shall be bound by covenants filed of record in the office of the county
recorder of deeds requiring the owner and his or her heirs and assigns to
maintain the required number of parking spaces during the existence of said
use. If, for any reason, the number of off street parking spaces available
should be permanently reduced below the minimum number required by this
article, the owner and/or occupant shall be required, within a period of one
year from the date such diminution in spaces shall occur, to provide
alternative parking facilities or to reduce the size, type or intensity of use
of the property to comply with the provisions of this article.
      10.   Signs: No sign shall be displayed in any parking area within
residential use areas except such as may be necessary for the orderly use of
the parking facilities.
      11.   Landscaping: In a residential use area or on any institutional
premises, the perimeters of all open automobile parking lots containing more
than four (4) parking spaces shall be effectively landscaped.
      12.   Wheel Guards: All parking lots shall be provided with an acceptable
device so located so that no part of parked vehicles will extend beyond the
property line of the parking lot. (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973)
11-10B-13: CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY NOT INCLUDED IN APPROVED FINAL PLAN:
When, and if, any property in the district not included in a final plan
approved by the board of trustees pursuant to section
11-10B-15 of this article shall be conveyed to a person other than one of the
developers of the district on the date the district is classified as such
pursuant to an ordinance adopted by the board of trustees, the deed of
conveyance or another appropriate document which will bind such party and any
subsequent owner of the property shall contain provisions specifying the land
use regions in which such property may be developed, the residential density
which will be permitted in the development of such property, the open space,
park, recreation land and school site land reservation and dedication or sale
obligations which will apply to such property and such other restrictions and
limitations as shall be deemed necessary and relevant. A copy of such deed or
other document shall be deposited with the village clerk. (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-
1973)
11-10B-14: INAPPLICABLE PROVISIONS OF THIS TITLE:
In accordance with subsection 11-10B-5B of this article, any application
submitted on or after March 24, 2008, for development, redevelopment or
modification of any land or improvements existing thereon within the planned
unit development district of 250 acres or more shall conform with the general
provisions of chapter 5 of this title and the off street loading and off street
parking regulations of chapter 13 of this title. Any such existing improvements
for which modification, removal or redevelopment is not sought on or after
March 24, 2008, need not conform with sections
11-5-9,
11-5-11 and
11-5-12 and chapter 13 of this title. (Ord. 2008-14, 3-24-2008)
11-10B-15: PROCEDURE FOR ESTABLISHING DISTRICT:
   A.   General Requirements:
      1.   Application For PUD; Tentative Plan: Application for the
establishment of a planned unit development district of 250 acres or more
(hereinafter in this section called the "district") may be made by the
developer by filing with the village clerk an application for a zoning
amendment establishing a planned unit development district of 250 acres or
more. Said application shall be accompanied by a tentative development plan,
which application and tentative development plan shall be deemed to comply with
subsection 11-3-5B of this title for a zoning amendment application and the
plans, data and other information and evidence that must accompany such
application. Said tentative development plan shall include the following:
         a.   A land use plan for the district which shows the boundaries of
the proposed district, sets forth the present plans of the developers of the
district with respect to the future development of the district into the types
of land use regions described in this article and the location of such land use
regions in the district, and shows the portions of each land use region in
which certain uses are contemplated and those portions in which certain uses
are not contemplated. Any residential use area shown on a land use plan shall
also show neighborhood areas (hereinafter called "neighborhood[s]") with the
proposed number of dwelling units by type of residential unit proposed to be
constructed in said neighborhood, general alignment of collector roads and a
schematic representation of recreation areas as defined in subsection 11-10B-4D
of this article.
         b.   A legal description of the property proposed to be included in
the district and as shown on the land use plan.
         c.   A written explanation of the general character of the proposed
district including:
            (1)   A description of all land uses to be included in the district
with maximum and minimum percentage limitations for each use as well as the
proposed number of acres to be devoted to recreational areas and school and
municipal purposes;
            (2)   The projected maximum number of dwelling units to be
constructed in the district;
            (3)   A description of each type of residential unit proposed to be
constructed in the neighborhoods (i.e., single-family, town row house, low rise
multi-family, high rise multi-family, etc.);
            (4)   The estimated population of the district broken down by
school district and into preschool children, children in grades kindergarten
through fifth, sixth through eighth, ninth through twelfth, and adults; and
            (5)   The estimated total assessed valuation of all real estate in
the district, broken down by school district, as may be anticipated upon
completion of development of the district.
         d.   A preliminary engineering study providing a general description
of existing sanitary and stormwater facilities and service water facilities on
and adjacent to the proposed district and the proposed improvements necessary
to handle properly the sanitary and stormwater and service water needs upon
development of the district.
         e.   A preliminary traffic study providing a general description of
existing roads on and adjacent to the proposed district and the proposed road
improvements necessary to handle properly the traffic anticipated to be
generated upon development of the district.
         f.   A proposed construction schedule showing the anticipated number
of dwelling units to be constructed during the anticipated term of development
of the district, which anticipated number may be shown in the form of minimum
and maximum percentages based upon the percentage of residential development of
the district, together with a proposed construction schedule, showing the
anticipated amount of square feet of commercial property to be constructed and
ready for occupancy during the anticipated term of the development of the
district.
         g.   A description of the modifications, exceptions, and variations
from this title or the village subdivision control ordinance which are being
requested as part of the application for establishment of the district.
         h.   The proposed period of time within which the developer, in
accordance with subsections B5 and C5 of this section, shall be required to
submit to the board of trustees preliminary plans and final plans covering all
of the proposed district. (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973)
      2.   Planning And Zoning Commission Action: After the close of the public
hearing provided in subsection 11-3-5D of this title, and within the time
period provided in subsection 11-3-5E2 of this title but in no event later than
ninety (90) days after the date on which the application was forwarded by the
board of trustees, unless the developer and the planning and zoning commission
have agreed to an extension of such time period, the planning and zoning
commission shall submit to the board of trustees its recommendation with
respect to the application. The planning and zoning commission may recommend
that the board of trustees approve or disapprove the application. In either
case, the planning and zoning commission shall set forth the reasons for its
recommendation and may, in the event of a favorable recommendation, specify
particular conditions which should be incorporated in an approval of the
application.
      3.   Board Of Trustees Action: Within sixty (60) days after receipt of
the planning and zoning commission's recommendation, the board of trustees
shall either approve or disapprove the application. An approval may be
conditional and, if so, shall specifically state what additions or deletions
from the tentative development plan as submitted shall be made in the
application as approved.
      4.   Zoning Amendment: Upon approval of the application for establishment
of a district by the board of trustees and acceptance by the developer of any
conditions incorporated in such approval, the board of trustees shall proceed
to amend the zoning map by rezoning the property as a planned development
district of 250 acres or more. The public hearing on the application previously
held by the planning and zoning commission pursuant to the amendment procedure
provided in section
11-3-5 of this title shall satisfy all hearing requirements for the rezoning
action. (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
   B.   Preliminary Plans:
      1.   Within such time periods as are prescribed in subsection B5 of this
section, preliminary plans for all or specified development phases of the
district shall be submitted for approval by the board of trustees in accordance
with the procedures set forth in subsection E of this section. There shall be
no minimum acreage requirement with respect to preliminary plans except for the
first preliminary plan, which shall contain at least fifteen (15) acres.
Approval of preliminary plans may not be withheld for reasons that would be
inconsistent with the approved tentative development plan. In considering the
approval of a preliminary plan, no further public hearing shall be required to
approve changes from the tentative development plan which are not "major
changes" as defined in subsection B2 of this section. (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973)
      2.   Major changes from the tentative development plan shall not be made
without consideration of such changes at a public hearing held in accordance
with the provisions of subsections 11-3-5C, D, E and F of this title. The
planning and zoning commission, after holding such a hearing, shall make its
recommendations to the board of trustees. A "major change" shall be a change
which substantially alters the proposed uses (including open space) or the
percentages or the maximum or minimum percentage limitations for each use,
projected densities for residential uses or the maximum or minimum limitations
for such densities, or the intent and purpose of the tentative development
plan. (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
      3.   The increase or decrease by ten percent (10%) of the number of
residential units proposed to be constructed in the neighborhood, either in
total or by type, shall not require the approval of the board of trustees;
provided, however, that the total number of residential units in a land use
region shall not exceed the maximum number provided in the tentative
development plan.
      4.   A preliminary plan shall include or be accompanied by the following
and shall be generally in the form and contain the substance set forth in
exhibit 1 in subsection C4j of this section:
         a.   A boundary survey and legal description of the area covered by
such preliminary plan, prepared and certified by a registered Illinois land
surveyor, including the total acreage therein certified to the nearest one
hundredth of an acre, a north point (designated as true north), and the date of
preparation.
         b.   A topographical survey of the area covered by such preliminary
plan at two foot (2') contour intervals as such area exists at that time.
         c.   A map showing the existing zoning of property covered by the
preliminary plan and the area within one hundred feet (100') thereof as well as
of the boundaries of a land use region, if said boundaries fall within the
property covered by the preliminary plan.
         d.   A plan of the area covered by such preliminary plan indicating
categories of land uses including the approximate number of dwelling units and
the approximate number of square feet of other uses.
         e.   A plan of the neighborhood and the area within the neighborhood
covered by such preliminary plan, drawn at an appropriate scale, indicating the
following:
            (1)   Existing and proposed public roads, streets and recreation
areas.
            (2)   Existing easements and proposed easements to be granted in
lieu of rights of way.
            (3)   General areas of location and number of residential units
proposed to be constructed in the neighborhood by type of unit, including the
approximate heights thereof.
         f.   A schematic public utilities plan of existing and proposed
utilities, drawn at a scale of not less than one inch equals two hundred feet
(1" = 200'), for the area covered by such preliminary plan and the area within
one hundred feet (100') thereof indicating the following:
            (1)   Schematic sanitary and storm sewer systems.
            (2)   Schematic water supply systems.
            (3)   Schematic street lighting and public area lighting systems.
         g.   A time schedule of the proposed development of the area covered
by such preliminary plan.
         h.   With respect to residential use areas within a residential land
use region, all of the requirements set forth in subsections B4a through B4g of
this section, plus the following:
            (1)   General location of proposed public and private collector and
secondary roadway system within the neighborhood and within the area of the
neighborhood which is the subject of the preliminary plan.
            (2)   The number, type, height and general location of all
buildings and structures within only the area which is the subject of the
preliminary plan.
            (3)   Architectural renderings of the proposed structures within
only the area which is the subject of the preliminary plan.
            (4)   The general size and location of all parking facilities
within only the area which is the subject of the preliminary plan.
      5.   The first preliminary plan of the proposed district ("first
preliminary plan") shall be submitted for approval within twelve (12) months
after adoption by the board of trustees of the amendment establishing the
district; provided, that upon request in writing of the developer, the board of
trustees may, at any time or from time to time, by resolution duly adopted at
any meeting of the board of trustees, extend the period of time for the
submission of a first preliminary plan. If the first preliminary plan shall
cover less than all of the district, preliminary plans for additional areas of
the district may be submitted to the board of trustees from time to time after
submission of such first preliminary plan; provided, that preliminary plans
covering all of the district shall be submitted to the board of trustees within
such period of time as shall have been prescribed in the approval of the
application for establishment of the district, which shall be not more than
seventeen (17) years after the adoption by the board of trustees of the
amendment establishing the district; and provided further, that upon request in
writing of the developer, the board of trustees may, at any time and from time
to time, by resolution duly adopted at any meeting of the board of trustees,
extend the period of time for submission of preliminary plans covering all of
the district. A preliminary plan for all or part of a district may be submitted
for approval with the application for establishment of the district, and such
preliminary plan may be approved by the board of trustees at the time such
application is approved.
   C.   Final Plans:
      1.   Within such time periods as are prescribed in subsection C5 of this
section, final plans for specified development phases, or portions of specified
development phases upon which a preliminary plan has previously been submitted,
of the district shall be submitted for approval by the board of trustees in
accordance with the procedures set forth in subsection E of this section.
Approval of a final plan may not be withheld for reasons that would be
inconsistent with the tentative development plan or the approved preliminary
plan for the area covered by such final plan. In considering the approval of a
final plan, no further public hearing shall be required to approve changes from
the approved preliminary plan for the area covered by such final plan which are
not "major changes" as defined in subsection C2 of this section. (Ord. 73-69,
12-20-1973)
      2.   Major changes from the approved preliminary plan shall not be made
without consideration of such changes at a public hearing which shall be held
by the planning and zoning commission in accordance with the provisions of
subsections 11-5-3C, D, E and F of this title. The planning and zoning
commission, after holding such a hearing, shall make its recommendations to the
board of trustees. A "major change" shall be a change which substantially
alters the proposed uses (including open space) or the percentages or the
maximum or minimum percentage limitations for each use, projected densities for
residential uses or the maximum or minimum limitations for such densities, or
the intent and purpose of the tentative development plan or the approved
preliminary plan for the area covered by such final plan. (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-
1973; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
      3.   The board of trustees shall approve any final plan submitted thereto
which is in substantial conformance with an approved preliminary plan.
      4.   A final plan shall include or be accompanied by the following:
         a.   A calculated and dimensioned development plan for the area
covered by such final plan, drawn at an appropriate scale, indicating the
following:
            (1)   All public and private street rights of way and easements.
            (2)   Dimensioned building sites, dimensioned setback lines and the
proposed use of each building site.
            (3)   Off street parking and service areas not incidental to
building sites.
            (4)   Recreation areas.
            (5)   Sites for schools and other public facilities.
         b.   Development plans and specifications for the following
improvements:
            (1)   Roads, streets and alleys, including classifications, width
of rights of way, width of paved surfaces and construction details.
            (2)   Sidewalks, including width of paved surfaces and construction
details.
         c.   Engineering drawings and specifications for:
            (1)   Sanitary and storm sewer systems.
            (2)   Water supply system.
            (3)   Street lighting and public area lighting systems.
Such engineering drawings and any other engineering drawings required by any
other ordinance of the village shall be prepared in such detail as may be
required by good engineering practices.
         d.   Estimates of the cost of installation of all proposed public
improvements, confirmed by a registered Illinois engineer.
         e.   Provisions which will govern the use, maintenance and protection
of access easements, off street parking spaces and common open space within the
area covered by such final plan unless such provisions have been included in
the tentative development plan or in an approved preliminary plan for the area
covered by such final plan.
         f.   A rendered outline plan of the area covered by such final plan
showing the boundaries of the land use areas, if such boundaries are within the
property covered by such final plan. (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973)
         g.   A preliminary landscaping drawing of sufficient detail with
respect to proposed landscaping, screening, fencing, pathways, lighting, where
necessary, and buffering, if any, so as to generally inform the planning and
zoning commission and the board of trustees as to the intentions of the
developer in these matters. (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-
2014)
         h.   At the developer's option, a recordable plat of subdivision.
         i.   Architectural renderings of the proposed structures.
         j.   Exhibit 1, as follows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2594.gif]
      5.   Final plans for all of the area covered by the first preliminary
plan required by subsection B5 of this section shall be submitted to the board
of trustees for approval within three (3) years after approval of such first
preliminary plan by the board of trustees; provided, that upon request in
writing of the developer, the board of trustees may, at any time or from time
to time, by resolution duly adopted at any meeting of the board of trustees,
extend the period of time for the submission of such final plans. Final plans
covering all of the district shall be submitted to the board of trustees for
approval within such period of time as shall have been prescribed in the
approval of the application for establishment of the district, which shall be
not more than twenty (20) years after adoption by the board of trustees of the
amendment establishing the district; provided, that upon request in writing of
the developer, the board of trustees may, at any time and from time to time, by
resolution duly adopted at any meeting of the board of trustees, extend the
period of time for submission of final plans covering all of the district.
   D.   Standards:
      1.   Except for modifications and exceptions granted pursuant to
subsection D2 of this section, a district shall be subject to all of the
regulations provided in this article. (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973)
      2.   As part of the approval of the tentative development plan for a
district or of a preliminary plan or a final plan for all or a part of a
district, the planning and zoning commission may recommend and the board of
trustees may grant, for all or specified areas of the district, modifications
and exceptions from any provisions of this title or the village subdivision
control ordinance and any other ordinances of the village. (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-
1973; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
      3.   A district shall be developed only in accordance with approved final
plans. (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973)
      4.   In granting or withholding approval of the tentative development
plan, preliminary plans and final plans, the planning and zoning commission and
the board of trustees shall be guided in the reasonable exercise of their
discretion by the following standards: (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973; amd. Ord. 2014-
48, 10-27-2014)
         a.   All plans shall be so designed that the public health, welfare
and safety will be protected.
         b.   The proposed development of the district shall be such that it
does not cause substantial injury to the value of other property in the
neighborhood.
         c.   All plans shall provide for protection of both aesthetics and
function of the natural environment, which shall include, but not be limited
to, conditions pertaining to floodplains, soil and geologic characteristics and
preservation of vegetation.
         d.   All plans shall provide for and ensure the preservation of
adequate and permanent open space.
         e.   Residential use areas shall have a variety of housing types and
densities necessary to achieve a balanced neighborhood.
         f.   The district shall include land area necessary to accommodate
cultural, educational, recreational and other public and quasi-public
activities necessary to serve the needs of the residents thereof.
         g.   The proposed development of the district shall provide for the
orderly and creative arrangement of all land uses with respect to each other
and to the entire village.
         h.   The proposed development of the district shall provide for
developed recreational activity areas necessary to serve the needs of the
residential portion of the district. (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973)
         i.   The planning and zoning commission and the board of trustees need
not approve any preliminary plan or final plan which deviates from the
tentative development plan where such deviation results in: (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-
1973; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
            (1)   A change which alters the concept, character or intent of the
overall development as set forth in the tentative development plan or any
preliminary plan; or
            (2)   A change which would ultimately adversely affect the capacity
of the public utilities then presently intended to be constructed by or for the
village, unless the developer agrees to eliminate any such adverse effect
without cost to the village over and above the cost to have been incurred by
the village, if any, prior to such change. (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973)
      5.   In addition to the standards provided in subsections D1 through D4
of this section, in considering a preliminary plan or final plan, the planning
and zoning commission and the board of trustees may disapprove such preliminary
plan or final plan if, in their reasonable discretion, such preliminary plan or
final plan fails to provide a satisfactory relationship between different types
of residential units within the area covered by such preliminary plan or final
plan as well as those existing or proposed in any adjacent area of the
neighborhood in which the land which is the subject of said preliminary plan or
final plan is located; fails to reasonably provide and locate recreational
areas within the preliminary plan or final plan; fails to provide a usable and
safe network of public and private roads for the neighborhood; or otherwise
fails, in accordance with good planning principles recognized by professional
planners, to design a livable and healthful modern environment within the
standards set forth in this article; provided, however, that the village
disapproval of any preliminary plan or final plan or plans may not be for
reasons which are inconsistent with the standards provided in this article. If
a preliminary plan or final plan is in conformity with good planning standards
as aforesaid, it shall be approved. If such preliminary plan or final plan is
not approved, the developer shall be notified in writing of the basis for such
disapproval and the manner in which such preliminary plan or final plan is not
in conformity with good planning standards as aforesaid. Where disagreement
arises, such disagreement may, at the option of the developer, be submitted to
a nationally recognized professional land planner of the village's choice,
excepting therefrom any planner then engaged by the village, who shall mediate
the matters in disagreement. The developer shall bear the entire reasonable
cost of such planner's study and opinion. The decision of such planner shall be
advisory only and not binding upon the parties. (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973; amd.
Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
   E.   Procedure For Approval Of Preliminary And Final Plans Or Developer's
Requested Amendments:
      1.   Preliminary plans and final plans, or any requested amendments
thereto, for all or specified phases of a district shall be submitted by the
developer to the village clerk with written application for approval. (Ord. 96-
40, 9-9-1996)
      2.   The board of trustees shall refer each such preliminary or final
plan, or any requested amendments thereto, to the planning and zoning
commission and to such village officers as it deems appropriate. (Ord. 96-40,
9-9-1996; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
      3.   The planning and zoning commission and the village officers to whom
such plan is referred shall review the preliminary plan or final plan, or
requested amendments thereto, and if so directed by the board of trustees
pursuant to subsection B2 or C2 of this section, the planning and zoning
commission shall hold a public hearing on a preliminary or final plan, or any
requested amendments thereto, in accordance with the provisions of subsections
11-5-3C, D, E and F of this title. The planning and zoning commission shall,
within sixty (60) days from the date of referral, after considering the
preliminary or final plan at a public meeting noticed in the manner provided in
subsections 11-3-4C2a, C2b and C2d of this title, submit to the board of
trustees its written recommendations with respect to the preliminary or final
plan or any requested amendments thereto, which recommendations shall include
the recommendations of the village officers to whom such plans are referred.
The planning and zoning commission shall review the preliminary or final plan
or any requested amendments thereto and, subject to the provisions of
subsections B and C of this section, may recommend, within the exercise of its
reasonable discretion, that the board of trustees approve or disapprove of such
preliminary plan or final plan or any requested amendments thereto. In either
case, the planning and zoning commission shall set forth in writing the reasons
for its recommendation, and may, in the event of a favorable recommendation,
specify particular conditions which should be incorporated in the approval of
the preliminary or final plan or any requested amendments thereto. (Ord. 96-40,
9-9-1996; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
      4.   Within forty five (45) days after receipt of the planning and zoning
commission's recommendation, the board of trustees, within the exercise of its
reasonable discretion, shall either approve or disapprove the preliminary plan
or final plan, or any requested amendments thereto. An approval may be
conditional and, if so, shall specifically state what additions or deletions
from the preliminary plan or final plan, or any requested amendments thereto,
as submitted, shall be made in the preliminary plan or final plan or any
requested amendments thereto as approved. Such additions or deletions shall be
shown on or attached to such approved preliminary plan or final plan, or any
requested amendments thereto.
      5.   A developer may request the planning and zoning commission to waive
preliminary plan approval procedures for any area in a district, and if such
request is granted, the developer may, without having obtained approval of a
preliminary plan covering the area, submit for approval, in accordance with the
procedures prescribed in this subsection and within the time period prescribed
for submission of a preliminary plan for the area, one or more final plans for
the area. (Ord. 96-40, 9-9-1996; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
      6.   Promptly after approval of each final plan, or any requested
amendments thereto, six (6) complete copies of such approved final plan, or any
requested amendments thereto, with all accompanying materials and data, shall
be prepared at the developer's expense and deposited with the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 96-40, 9-9-1996)
   F.   Subdivision:
      1.   At the time of submission of any preliminary plan for all or part of
a district, the developer may request that all or part of such preliminary plan
be considered and approved as a "preliminary plan" under the Village
subdivision control ordinance, and at the time of submission of a final plan
for all or part of a district, the developer may request that all or part of
such final plan be considered and approved as a "final plan" under the Village
subdivision control ordinance.
      2.   Approval of all or part of any preliminary plan also submitted for
consideration and approval as a "preliminary plan" under the Village
subdivision control ordinance shall not be withheld for reasons that would be
inconsistent with the tentative development plan theretofore approved by the
Board of Trustees in accordance with the provisions of this section. Any
approval of such preliminary plan shall be deemed an approval of a "preliminary
plan" under the Village subdivision control ordinance, and in case of conflict
between the requirements for approval of a preliminary plan under this section
and the requirements for approval of a "preliminary plan" under the Village
subdivision control ordinance, the requirements of this section shall control.
      3.   Approval of all or part of any final plan also submitted for
consideration and approval as a "final plan" under the Village subdivision
control ordinance shall not be withheld for reasons that would be inconsistent
with the tentative development plan or preliminary plans theretofore approved
by the Board of Trustees in accordance with the provisions of this section.
However, any approval of such final plan shall be deemed an approval of a
"final plan" under the Village subdivision control ordinance only if the
requirements of said subdivision control ordinance are met.
      4.   Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to require the subdivision
of any part of a district.
   G.   Submission Of Updated Land Use Plans:
      1.   Submission With Preliminary Plans: At any time and from time to
time, when a preliminary plan for a portion of the district is submitted for
approval, it shall be an obligation of the developer of such portion to cause
the developer of the district to prepare and submit to the Village with such
preliminary plan an updated Land Use Plan for those areas in the district for
which preliminary plans shall not then have been submitted for approval.
      2.   Submission By Developer: At any time and from time to time, the
developer of the district may submit to the Village an updated Land Use Plan
for any area in the district for which preliminary plans shall not then have
been submitted for approval.
      3.   Annual Submissions: When no updated Land Use Plan for the district
shall have been prepared for one year, the developer of the district shall,
unless the Village waives such obligation, prepare and submit to the Village a
Land Use Plan for those areas in the district for which preliminary plans shall
not then have been submitted for approval.
   H.   Land Use Plans To Reflect Developer's Best Intentions: The Land Use
Plan included as part of the tentative development plan, and each updated Land
Use Plan subsequently prepared and submitted in accordance with subsection G of
this section shall, as of its date, reflect the best intentions of the
developer of the district with respect to the future development of the
district into land use areas and the location of such land use areas in the
district. (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973)
   I.   Permits: Building, zoning and occupancy permits shall be required for
each structure in a district. No building permit relating to any part of a
district shall be issued prior to the approval of a final plan for such part of
the district in accordance with the provisions of subsection E of this section;
provided, however, that subject to the approval of the Village Engineer,
excavation operations may proceed at any time following approval of the
tentative development plan and without approval of a preliminary plan; and
provided further, that construction of sewer, water and other utility
improvements as well as street and roadway improvements may proceed at any time
following approval of the tentative development plan and without approval of a
preliminary plan upon compliance with the provisions of the Village subdivision
control ordinance. (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-
13-2017)
   J.   Changes In Land Use Plans Requiring Board Of Trustees Approval:
      1.   Changes in the land use plan included in the tentative development
plan or in any updated land use plan prepared and submitted in accordance with
subsection G of this section which involve the relocation of a land use region
in the district or the establishment of a new land use region in the district
shall require the approval, in the exercise of its reasonable discretion, of
the board of trustees, which approval may be obtained in accordance with the
procedures set forth in subsections B2 and C2 of this section; provided, that
except as hereinafter set forth in this subsection, all other changes in any
such land use plan including, but not limited to, the following, shall not
require a public hearing but shall require the approval, in the exercise of its
reasonable discretion, of the board of trustees:
         a.   The relocation of one or more business use areas in a residential
land use region, each of which contains no more than twenty five (25) acres;
and
         b.   The enlargement of a land use region into property contiguous to
such land use region prior to such enlargement, the contraction of a land use
region or the elimination of a land use region, or the enlargement of a
commercial area established or relocated pursuant to subsection J1a of this
section to a size greater than twenty five (25) acres; provided, that
properties separated by highways, streets, public ways or railroad or public
utility rights of way shall be deemed contiguous for the purpose of this
subsection J1b; and
         c.   Any changes in such land use plan which are deemed necessary or
desirable by the developer of the district for which preliminary plans shall
not have been submitted for approval because of any of the following events and
which are reasonably attributable to such event or events:
            (1)   A change in the zoning classification of property adjacent to
but outside the boundaries of the district; or
            (2)   The future location or elimination of major public
transportation facilities or routes designed, in whole or in part, to serve the
district; or
            (3)   The enactment of any municipal, state or federal ordinance or
law or the issuance of any executive or judicial ordinance or decree.
      2.   In a business land use region, the enlargement of a commercial use
area into property contiguous to such use area prior to such enlargement, and
the enlargement of a residential use area within the boundaries of the same
neighborhood at the same density as the area being enlarged prior to such
enlargement, shall be permitted without requiring the approval of the board of
trustees; provided, that such enlargement does not result in a percentage of
use of land in such region in excess of the percentage permitted in the
tentative development plan; and provided further, that such enlargement does
not result in a use of land in an area designated on the tentative development
plan as an area not contemplated for such use; provided, however, that the
reduction of a commercial use area shall not be allowed where the remaining
commercial use area could be reasonably characterized as susceptible to strip
commercial development. (Ord. 73-69, 12-20-1973)
CHAPTER 11
OTP OLD TOWN PRESERVATION DISTRICT
SECTION:
11-11-1: Boundaries
11-11-2: Intent And Purpose
11-11-3: Definitions
11-11-4: Uses
11-11-5: Approval Of Special Use
11-11-6: Signage
11-11-7: Exterior Painting
11-11-8: Fencing
11-11-9: Application And Interpretation
11-11-1: BOUNDARIES:
   A.   All parcels of land within the corporate limits of the village with
frontage on the following streets or portions thereof shall be included in the
old town district: (Ord. 2006-03, 1-23-2006; amd. 2012 Code)
Lake Street (U.S. 20) from Rosedale Avenue on the west to a point 75 feet more
or less west of the west line of Ridge Avenue; the west side of Ridge Avenue,
from Schick Road to a point 403.24 feet more or less north of the north line of
Schick Road; the north side of Schick Road from a point 224.4 feet more or less
west of Day Street extended to the west line of Ridge Avenue; Day Street from
Schick Road to the north terminus; Third Street from Schick Road to Lake Street
(U.S. 20); the west side of Bloomingdale Road from Schick Road to the south
line of the Meacham Grove Forest Preserve; the east side of Bloomingdale Road
from Schick Road to a point 267 feet more or less south of Log Lodge Drive;
Walter Court from Park Avenue to the south terminus; Franklin Street from Third
Street to First Street; and Washington Street from Day Street to First Street;
including all parcels existing or created within the boundary lines described.
   B.   The boundaries of the old town district shall remain unchanged. There
shall, however, be created a core area and a transition area, the boundaries of
which are depicted on the old town plan attached as exhibit A to the ordinance
codified herein which exhibit is made a part hereof. (Ord. 2006-03, 1-23-2006)
11-11-2: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
   A.   The old town preservation district is an overlay district intended to
provide a mechanism whereby those structures, sites, and neighborhoods in the
village, which are determined to have historic, architectural, aesthetic, or
cultural significance, may be preserved and enjoyed in a suitable harmonious
environment. (Ord. 2006-03, 1-23-2006; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Furthermore, it is the purpose of the old town preservation district to
strengthen the economy of the village by stabilizing and enhancing property
values in historic areas, and to encourage new construction and restoration of,
renovation of, and rehabilitation of existing buildings that will be harmonious
with historic sites and structures.
   C.   Such preservation, restoration, and rehabilitation of existing
structures, as well as new construction, shall comply with the old town plan
attached as exhibit A to the ordinance codified herein. (Ord. 2006-03, 1-23-
2006)
11-11-3: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words or phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
ALTERATION: Any act or process that changes one or more of the exterior
architectural features of a structure.
EXTERIOR ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE: The architectural style, design, general
arrangement and components of all of the outer surfaces of an improvement, as
distinguished from the interior surfaces enclosed by said exterior surfaces,
including, but not limited to, the kind of building material and the type and
style of all windows, doors, lights, signs and other fixtures appurtenant to
such improvement, visible from public streets and thoroughfares.
IMPROVEMENT: Any building, structure, place, parking facility, fence, gate,
wall, work of art or other object constituting a physical betterment of real
property, or any part of such betterment.
INTERIOR: The visible surfaces of the interior of an improvement.
ORDINARY REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE: Any work done on or replacement of any part
of a property or an improvement for which the purpose or effect of such work or
replacement is:
   A.   To correct any deterioration or decay of or damage to such improvement,
or any part thereof, and to restore the same, as nearly as may be practicable,
to its condition prior to the occurrence of such deterioration, decay or
damage; or
   B.   To improve the condition of an existing use or structure on the
property to a level that would be allowed if it were located elsewhere in the
village.
OWNER: Any person, group of persons, partnership, corporation or other legal
entity holding legal or equitable title to real estate located within the
village of Bloomingdale including, but not limited to, contract purchasers and
all of the beneficiaries under a land trust.
PLAN: The proposal for development of a special use, including a plat of
survey, architectural or equivalent drawings and renderings, all covenants,
grants of easement and other conditions relating to use, location and bulk of
buildings, density of development and nature and purpose of the business or
service to be conducted upon the property. The plan shall include all
information required by this chapter. The phrase "provisions of the plan",
where used in this chapter, shall mean those documents, verbal or graphic,
referred to in this definition.
SPECIAL USE: A use that, because of its unique characteristics, may be allowed
only after special consideration of its impact upon neighboring land and of
public need for the use at the particular location. Such uses may include, but
are not limited to, public and quasi-public uses affected with the public
interest, uses which may have a unique, special or unusual impact upon the use
or enjoyment of neighboring property, and planned developments. (Ord. 2006-03,
1-23-2006; amd. Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013)
11-11-4: USES:
   A.   With the exception of uses described in subsection B of this section,
all uses in the old town preservation district shall be special uses, and shall
be allowed in the manner for special uses and in keeping with the terms and
conditions of this title. Unless otherwise specified under the terms of a
special use permit, the building height and bulk regulations of the underlying
zoning classification shall remain in effect. Said uses shall be consistent
with the land use recommendations contained in the old town plan attached as
exhibit A to ordinance 2006-03.
   B.   The following uses and plans do not require a special use permit:
      1.   Alterations, additions, renovation, and restoration of single-family
residential structures built after 1933 and existing at the effective date
hereof.
      2.   Construction of new single-family residential structures; provided,
that the property is properly zoned. Plans for said structures shall be
reviewed by the building and zoning official for compatibility with the old
town environment and plan. Should the building and zoning official determine
that the structure is not compatible with the old town environment or plan, the
owner may request a special use permit, requiring planning and zoning
commission review and village board approval.
      3.   Unless otherwise prohibited by subsection D of this section, all
permitted uses in the B-1, Neighborhood Business District, B-2, Community
Business District and B-3, General Service District, shall not require special
uses and/or be subject to a public hearing process, but instead shall be
subject to the following:
         a.   Any application for a change in use, which is otherwise permitted
pursuant to this section, shall be reviewed and evaluated by the Board of
Trustees at a public meeting;
         b.   No fee shall be assessed for the application however the
applicant shall be responsible for any review fees, which could include but are
not limited to, any review of the application by the Village Attorney and/or
Third-Party Consultants;
         c.   Any application for consideration of a use shall include a
comprehensive narrative, which includes the following:
            (1)    The nature of the business and scope of the services that
are to be provided;
            (2)   Hours of operation;
            (3)   Number of shifts (if shifts are to be utilized);
            (4)   Number of overall employees, as well as number of employees
per shift, if shifts will be utilized;
            (5)   Anticipated parking demands;
            (6)   Any special considerations or accommodations that may not
otherwise be considered;
               (7)   Any other information deemed to be essential to the
application, as determined by Village Staff or the Village Board of Trustees.
         d.   The Village Board reserves the right to refer any request to the
Planning and Zoning Commission, if it is determined that the request warrants
further review. Should the Board choose to refer the request to the Planning
and Zoning Commission, the application shall then be considered as a request
for a special use and as such, shall be subject to all processes and fees set
forth for the special use process.
   C.   1. Unless otherwise authorized to the contrary by a development
ordinance granting a special use permit, planned development or site plan
approval, or in accordance with the provisions of subsection B of this section,
changes of use shall be made as in the manner prescribed for special uses.
      2.   For purposes of this chapter, a new occupant or tenant shall be
considered a change in use when at least one of the following two (2)
circumstances applies:
         a.   There is a change in use within a building entirety or tenant
space between a retail business and either a personal service establishment,
business service establishment, professional office establishment, or special
use as defined in sections
11-8C-2 and
11-8C-4 of this title.
         b.   There is a change in use within a building entirety or tenant
space whereby the new use has a higher parking space requirement than the
previous use, or the new use is a higher intensity use by virtue of having a
greater number of employees, customers, or vehicular traffic than the previous
use in such location.
   D.   Only the following special uses may be permitted, subject to review and
approval as detailed in subsection
11-11-5C of this chapter:
      1.   All of the special uses in the B-1 neighborhood business district
are allowed as special uses, excluding the following permitted and special
uses:
Dry cleaning and laundry receiving establishment.
Nursery school, children's day school, day nursery, childcare center, and
daycare center, unless operated on the premises of a church.
      2.   All of the special uses in the B-2 community business district are
allowed as special uses.
      3.   Only the following uses in the B-3 general service business district
are permitted as special uses in old town:
Drive-through restaurants located in the northeast quadrant of Bloomingdale
Road and Lake Street, as defined by the old town plan; provided, however, that:
         a.   The restaurant is located on a parcel of adequate size to be able
to accommodate required building setbacks from abutting arterials.
         b.   Access does not conflict with turn lanes associated with the
planned widening of Lake Street and Bloomingdale Road.
         c.   The architectural design, materials, scale, and color styling of
the restaurant is consistent with the turn of the century theme established for
the old town district.
         d.   Landscaping is provided consistent with requirements of this
chapter and chapter 4 of this title.
         e.   The site is illuminated by the Sternberg light standards and
luminaries adopted for the old town district, or approved equivalent.
         f.   Signs are externally illuminated.
         g.   The village board finds, upon recommendation of the planning and
zoning commission, that the drive-through restaurant is necessary and
desirable, and is not inconsistent with the standards, conditions and criteria
set forth in this chapter.
Museum.
      4.   The additional following use(s) shall be permitted as special uses:
         a.   Microbreweries, as defined by section
11-2-2 of this title.
         b.   Micro-wineries, as defined by Section
11-2-2 of this title.
      5.   All of the permitted uses in R-1, R-2, R-2B, R-2C, R-3, and R-
4 districts are allowed as special uses in addition to the following special
uses:
Art galleries and museums.
Churches.
Libraries.
Parks and playgrounds.
Planned developments.
Utility and public service uses.
However, consistent with subsection B2 of this section, new single-family
residential structures do not require a special use permit if consistent with
the underlying zoning, and the village building and zoning official determines
the structure is compatible with the character of old town.
      6.   Uses similar to and compatible with the specifically listed
permitted special uses in subsections D1, D2, D3 and D5 of this section, as
determined through the special use permit process established in section
11-3-4 of this title. (Ord. 2006-03, 1-23-2006; amd. Ord. 2011-10, 2-28-2011;
2012 Code; Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013; Ord. 2014-46, 10-27-2014; Ord. 2014-48,
10-27-2014; Ord. 2017-09, 3-13-2017; Ord. 2020-28, 11-9-2020; Ord. 2021-36, 9-
27-2021)
11-11-5: APPROVAL OF SPECIAL USE:
   A.   Criteria: The proposed plan shall be consistent with the following:
      1.   The land use, design, and signage recommendations contained in the
old town plan attached as exhibit A to the ordinance codified herein.
      2.   This title, including chapter 4, "Site Development And Plan Review",
of this title.
      3.   The land use limitations contained in subsection 11-11-4C of this
chapter.
      4.   The special use criteria contained in section
11-3-4 of this title.
   B.   Submittals:
      1.   The owner shall submit documentation in compliance with chapter 4 of
this title.
      2.   The owner shall submit a written statement describing the proposed
plan, provide a basis for any requested exceptions to this title, and set forth
the reasons, in his opinion, the special use permit would be consistent with
the village objectives for the old town preservation district.
      3.   The owner shall submit a written statement explaining why the
proposed use satisfies the special use criteria contained in section
11-3-4 of this title.
   C.   Procedure: Plans shall be reviewed in the manner of a special use
permit as described in section
11-3-4 of this title, applying the criteria outlined in subsection A of this
section. (Ord. 2006-03, 1-23-2006)
11-11-6: SIGNAGE:
All signage shall be consistent with the sign guidelines contained in the old
town plan attached as exhibit A to ordinance 2006-03 as determined by the
building and zoning official through the issuance of a sign permit. Signage
proposed that is not consistent with these guidelines shall be reviewed as an
exception to the sign ordinance, requiring a recommendation from the planning
and zoning commission at a public meeting and approval by the village board.
(Ord. 2006-03, 1-23-2006; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
11-11-7: EXTERIOR PAINTING:
   A.   Exterior painting of walls and trim shall require a permit to be issued
by the building and zoning official that shall be granted so long as the colors
used shall comply with the appropriate color palette outlined in subsection B
of this section. (Ord. 2006-03, 1-23-2006; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Approved exterior colors include the Benjamin Moore historical color
selection, or approved equivalent, or such other appropriate color approved by
the building and zoning official, with recommendation from the planning and
zoning commission and approval of the village board. (Ord. 2006-03, 1-23-2006;
amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
11-11-8: FENCING:
All new fencing shall obtain a building permit prior to installation, and shall
conform to the requirements of chapter 19, "Fencing And Screening", of this
title. In addition to the requirements established in chapter 19, "Fencing And
Screening", of this title, all fencing shall conform to the supplemental
requirements of this section, as follows:
   A.   For properties where the fencing is proposed to be adjacent to Third
Street, Day Street, Franklin Street, Washington Street, and First Street,
fencing shall be limited to picket style, and constructed of wood, or
equivalent material approved by the building commissioner.
   B.   For properties where the fencing is proposed to be adjacent to Lake
Street (U.S. 20), Bloomingdale Road, or Schick Road, fencing shall be limited
to: 1) picket style with wood construction or equivalent material approved by
the building commissioner, or 2) black wrought iron, or black powder coated
aluminum to resemble wrought iron.
   C.   Fences that exist on properties prior to the effective date hereof that
do not comply with subsections A and B of this section shall be deemed
nonconforming. Continued use of said existing fences shall be subject to the
provisions of chapter 12, "Nonconforming Buildings, Structures And Uses", of
this title.
Unless superseded by specific provisions for fencing in ordinances approved for
individual properties within the district, the requirements of this section are
applicable to all property within the old town preservation district,
regardless of the zoning designation of each such property located in the
district or the use(s) established on each such property. (Ord. 2012-27, 6-11-
2012)
11-11-9: APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION:
   A.   The specific terms and conditions of this chapter shall prevail against
other existing ordinances of the village to the extent that there may be any
conflict, and apply to those properties designated with the "old town special
use" as of the date of the adoption of this code amendment and those properties
obtaining such designation after the date of the adoption of this code
amendment. (Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013)
   B.   All special use permits or conditional use ordinances heretofore
granted or approved for particular sites shall remain in full force and effect.
Provided, however, if any special use or conditional use previously established
pursuant to a prior ordinance has been discontinued for a continuous period of
eighteen (18) months, it shall be deemed abandoned, and the use of the property
must be in compliance with the terms of this chapter. (Ord. 2006-03, 1-23-2006;
amd. Ord. 2012-27, 6-11-2012)
CHAPTER 12
NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES
SECTION:
11-12-1: Purpose
11-12-2: Authority To Continue Nonconforming Buildings, Structures And Uses
11-12-3: Exempt Buildings, Structures And Uses
11-12-4: Restrictions On Nonconforming Buildings, Structures And Uses
11-12-5: Nonconforming Use Of Conforming Buildings Or Structures
11-12-6: Nonconforming Use Of Land
11-12-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the regulation of nonconforming
uses, buildings, and structures, and to specify those circumstances and
conditions under which those nonconforming buildings, structures, and uses may
be continued. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
11-12-2: AUTHORITY TO CONTINUE NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES:
   A.   Any nonconforming building, structure, or use which existed lawfully at
the effective date hereof, and which remains nonconforming, and any such
building, structure or use which shall become nonconforming upon the effective
date hereof, or of any subsequent amendment hereto, may be continued in
accordance with the applicable regulations of this chapter.
   B.   For the purpose of this chapter, a building or structure lawfully
constructed or established on the effective date hereof shall be deemed to
include any building or structure for which a building permit has been issued
prior to such date and on which construction is begun within the required
period of time as set forth in this title. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
11-12-3: EXEMPT BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES:
   A.   No building, structure, or use lawfully established on the effective
date hereof shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter solely by reason
of being nonconforming with respect to the applicable standards prescribed in
this title for any of the following:
      1.   Floor area ratio.
      2.   Yards - front, side, rear, or transitional.
      3.   Lot area per dwelling unit.
      4.   Lot width.
      5.   Ground floor area per dwelling.
      6.   Gross floor area.
      7.   Performance standards.
      8.   Off street parking or loading spaces.
   B.   No building, or part thereof, lawfully existing on the effective date
hereof, which is designed and used or intended for use as a dwelling, shall be
subject to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
11-12-4: RESTRICTIONS ON NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES:
Any lawfully existing building or structure which does not conform with the
regulations of the district in which it is located shall be subject to the
provisions of this section. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
   A.   Repairs And Alterations: Ordinary repairs and alterations may be made
to a nonconforming building or structure; provided, that no structural
alterations shall be made in or to such building or structure, all or
substantially all of which is designed or intended for a use not permitted in
the district in which it is located, except those required by law, or except to
make the building or structure, and use thereof, conform to the regulations of
the district in which it is located. Ordinary repairs and alterations shall be
determined by the building and zoning official and shall include, among other
things, the replacement of storage tanks where the safety of the operation of
the installation requires such replacement. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969; amd. 2012
Code)
   B.   Additions And Enlargements: A nonconforming building or structure, all
or substantially all of which is designed or intended for a use not permitted
in the district in which it is located, shall not be added to or enlarged in
any manner unless such nonconforming building or structure, and use thereof,
including all additions and enlargements thereto, is made to conform to all the
regulations of the district in which it is located.
   C.   Moving: No building or structure, which does not conform to all of the
regulations of the district in which it is located, shall be moved, in whole or
in part, to any other location unless every portion of such building or
structure is moved and is made to conform to all regulations of the district
into which it is moved.
   D.   Restoration Of Damaged Nonconforming Building: A building or structure,
all or substantially all of which is designed or intended for a use which is
not permitted in the district in which it is located, and which is destroyed or
damaged by fire or other casualty or act of God, may be restored to its
original bulk and used for the use existing at the time of damage; provided,
that restoration is started within eighteen (18) months after the damage
occurred. However, in the event the restoration of a building or structure
which is destroyed or damaged by fire or other casualty or act of God, to the
extent that the cost of restoration to the condition in which it was before the
occurrence will exceed fifty percent (50%) of the cost of the restoration of
the entire building or structure new, is not started within eighteen (18)
months after the damage occurred, said building or structure, and the use
thereof, shall thereafter be made to conform to all regulations of the district
in which it is located.
   E.   Discontinuance Of Use Of Nonconforming Building Or Structure: A
building or structure, or portion thereof, all or substantially all of which is
designed or intended for a use which is not permitted in the district in which
it is located, and which is vacant on the effective date hereof or hereafter
becomes vacant and remains unoccupied, or is not used for a continuous period
of one hundred eighty (180) days, shall not thereafter be occupied or used
except by a use which conforms to the use regulations of the district in which
it is located.
   F.   Expansion Of Use In Nonconforming Building Or Structure: The
nonconforming use of a part of a building or structure may be expanded within
the building or structure in which said use is presently located, but no
changes or structural alterations shall be made unless such changes or
structural alterations, and the use thereof, conform to all the regulations of
the district in which the building or structure is located.
   G.   Change Of Use In Nonconforming Building Or Structure: A nonconforming
use of a nonconforming building or structure may be changed to a use permitted
in the district in which the building or structure is located; or in residence
districts, a building designed or intended for business use, which lawfully
exists within the village limits on the effective date hereof, may be changed
to a use permitted in a B-1 neighborhood business district; but no change shall
extend or modify any other applicable provisions of this chapter.
   H.   Elimination Of Nonconforming Buildings And Structures:
      1.   Any building or structure, all or substantially all of which is
designed or intended for a use not permitted in the district in which it is
located, shall be removed and its use thereafter shall cease, or shall be
converted to a building or structure designed or intended for a use permitted
in the district in which it is located in accordance with the following
conditions and amortization schedules:
         a.   In all residence districts, any building or structure, all or
substantially all of which is designed or intended for a use permitted only in
a business or manufacturing district, shall be removed, or it shall be altered
and converted to a building or structure designed for a use permitted in the
district in which it is located within six (6) months after the termination of
the respective period of time as set forth below.
         b.   Any building or structure which is located in a B-1 or B-
2 district and which is designed or intended for a use permitted only in M
districts shall be removed, or shall be altered, remodeled, or converted for a
permitted use within six (6) months after the termination of the life of such
building or structure which is hereby established in accordance with the
following respective amortization period:
            (1)   Assessed valuation more than five thousand dollars
($5,000.00): In accordance with the types of construction classifications set
forth in the building code of the village.
               (A)   Fireproof construction and noncombustible construction:
Forty (40) years from the date of the building permit, or twenty five (25)
years from the effective date hereof, whichever last occurs.
               (B)   Exterior masonry wall construction: Thirty (30) years from
the date of the building permit, or twenty (20) years from the effective date
hereof, whichever last occurs.
               (C)   Frame construction: Twenty (20) years from the date of the
building permit, or ten (10) years from the effective date hereof, whichever
last occurs.
            (2)   Assessed valuation at least two thousand dollars ($2,000.00)
but not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00): Eight (8) years from the
date of the building permit or four (4) years from the effective date hereof,
whichever last occurs.
            (3)   Assessed valuation under two thousand dollars ($2,000.00):
Four (4) years from the date of the building permit or two (2) years from the
effective date hereof, whichever last occurs.
      2.   The nonconforming use of a building or structure shall be terminated
at the end of the amortization period of said building or structure as set
forth in subsection H1 of this section and shall not thereafter be operated on
the premises. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
11-12-5: NONCONFORMING USE OF CONFORMING BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES:
The lawfully existing nonconforming use of a part or all of a building or
structure, all or substantially all of which building or structure is designed
or intended for a use permitted in the district in which it is located, may be
continued subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Expansion Of Nonconforming Use: The nonconforming use of a part of a
building or structure, all or substantially all of which building or structure
is designed or intended for a use permitted in the district in which it is
located, shall not be expanded or extended into any other portion of such
building or structure, nor changed to any other nonconforming use.
   B.   Discontinuance: If a nonconforming use of a building or structure, all
or substantially all of which building or structure is designed or intended for
a use permitted in the district in which it is located, is discontinued for a
period of ten (10) days, it shall not be renewed; and any subsequent use of the
building or structure shall conform to the use regulations of the district in
which the premises is located.
   C.   Change Of A Nonconforming Use: No nonconforming use shall be changed to
another nonconforming use when such nonconforming use is located in a building
or structure, all or substantially all of which building or structure is
designed or intended for a permitted use.
   D.   Elimination Of Nonconforming Uses: In all residence districts, any use
which lawfully exists at the effective date hereof, but is permitted only in a
business or manufacturing district, and which is located in a building, all or
substantially all of which is designed or intended for a residential purpose,
shall be entirely discontinued and shall thereafter cease operation within five
(5) years from the effective date hereof. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
11-12-6: NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND:
The nonconforming use of land not involving a building or structure, or in
connection with which any building or structure thereon is incidental or
accessory to the principal use of land, may be continued subject to the
following provisions:
   A.   Expansion: A nonconforming use of land shall not be expanded or
extended beyond the area it occupies.
   B.   Discontinuance: If a nonconforming use of land is discontinued for a
period of six (6) consecutive months, it shall not thereafter be renewed, and
any subsequent use of land shall conform to the regulations of the district in
which the land is located.
   C.   Change Of Use: A nonconforming use of land shall not be changed to any
other use except to a use permitted in the district in which the land is
located.
   D.   Elimination Of Use: The nonconforming use of land shall be discontinued
and cease in accordance with the following; except, that in R-1 and R-
2 districts, the allowable term shall be reduced by fifty percent (50%):
      1.   Where no buildings or structures are employed in connection with
such use: Discontinued within one year.
      2.   Where the only buildings or structures or other physical
improvements employed are accessory or incidental to such use and have an
assessed valuation not more than two thousand dollars ($2,000.00): Discontinued
within two (2) years.
      3.   Where the improvements, underground or substantially at ground
level, which comprise all or substantially all of the improvements employed in
a nonconforming use of land and which have an assessed value of more than two
thousand dollars ($2,000.00): Discontinued within five (5) years.
      4.   Where such use is maintained in connection with a conforming
building or structure; except, that inadequate off street parking facilities
used in connection with a building, the use of which complies with the
requirements of the district in which it is located, may be continued for so
long as the premises is so used.
      5.   Where a nonconforming use of land is accessory to the nonconforming
use of a building or structure: Discontinued on the same date on which the
nonconforming use of the building or structure is discontinued. (Ord. 69-12, 4-
23-1969)
CHAPTER 13
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
11-13-1: Purpose
11-13-2: Scope
11-13-3: Submission Of Site Plan And Land Use Data
11-13-4: Off Street Parking Regulations
11-13-4-1: Chart Of Parking Stall Specifications
11-13-4-2: Number Of Parking Spaces Required
11-13-5: Off Street Loading Regulations
11-13-5-1: Number Of Loading Spaces Required
11-13-6: Authorized Variations
11-13-7: Effect On Existing Developments
11-13-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is for the public health, safety, general welfare
and best interest of the residents of the village by provisions designed:
   A.   To increase safety and lessen congestion in public streets;
   B.   To meet the need for loading and parking facilities generated by the
development of land and the associated increase of automobile and truck usage;
   C.   To minimize the on street parking of vehicles;
   D.   To set standards for the requirements of off street loading and parking
facilities according to the amount of estimated traffic generated by a
particular use;
   E.   To require adequate protection for contiguous property against
undesirable effects from the creation and operation of loading and parking
areas; and
   F.   To protect and preserve the appearance and character of neighborhoods
within and adjacent to the village through screening and landscaping of off
street loading and parking facilities. (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990)
11-13-2: SCOPE:
The scope of this chapter is as follows:
   A.   General Conditions:
      1.   Accessory off street loading and off street parking facilities for
all buildings and structures erected and all uses of land established in each
district as of the effective date hereof shall be subject to the regulations of
this chapter.
      2.   Where a building permit has been issued in accordance with law prior
to the effective date hereof, and construction of said use is completed within
eighteen (18) months of said effective date, off street loading and parking
facilities requirements as were provided by law at the time of the issuance of
said building permit may be provided in lieu of any different requirements
provided by this chapter, and upon completion, said use be occupied under the
use for which it was originally designated.
   B.   Existing Loading And Parking Facilities: Accessory off street loading
and parking facilities in existence as of the effective date hereof and which
serve an existing building, structure, or use of land shall not, hereafter, be
reduced below the requirements of this chapter for a similar new building,
structure, or use of land.
   C.   Change Of Existing Use:
      1.   Whenever the existing use of a building, structure or land shall
hereafter be changed to a new use, off street loading and parking facilities
shall conform to the requirements as provided by this chapter.
      2.   The provisions specified in subsection C1 of this section shall
apply to uses of buildings, structures, or land which are established as of or
after the effective date hereof, or which uses are noncomplying as to off
street loading and parking requirements under the provisions of this chapter or
any previous zoning ordinances of the village.
   D.   Increase In Intensity Of Use:
      1.   Whenever the intensity of use of any building, structure, or land
shall be increased through addition of dwelling units, gross floor area, design
capacity, seating capacity, employees, or other units of measurement specified
in this chapter for required off street loading or parking facilities, off
street loading and parking facilities, as required herein, shall be provided
for such increase in intensity of use, and said loading and parking
requirements shall be applied to the entire building, structure, or land as
modified.
      2.   The provisions specified in subsection D1 of this section shall
apply to uses of buildings, structures, or land which are established as of or
after the effective date hereof, or which are noncomplying as to off street
loading and parking requirements under the provisions of this chapter or any
previous zoning ordinances of the village.
   E.   Permissive Loading And Parking Facilities: No provisions in this
chapter shall be deemed to prevent the voluntary establishment or increase of
off street loading or parking facilities to serve an existing use of a
building, structure, or land; provided, that there is adherence to all
regulations contained in this chapter governing the location, design,
improvement, operation and control of such facilities.
   F.   Damage Or Destruction:
      1.   For any conforming or nonconforming building or use which is in
existence on the effective date hereof, and which is subsequently damaged or
destroyed by fire, collapse, explosion or other cause, said building or use may
be reconstructed, reestablished or repaired; provided, that off street loading
and parking facilities, in an amount equivalent to that maintained at the time
of such damage or destruction, shall be restored or continued in operation.
      2.   In no case shall it be necessary to restore or maintain loading or
parking facilities in excess of those required by this chapter for equivalent
new uses or construction.
   G.   Timing Of Construction Of Facilities: Off street loading and parking
facilities, as required by this chapter, shall be constructed at the time of
erection, establishment, alteration, or enlargement of the building, structure,
or use of land for which they are required to serve. (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990)
   H.   Use Of Parking Facilities:
      1.   Required off street parking lots shall be used solely for the
parking of fully and independently operable, mobile motorized vehicles weighing
eight thousand (8,000) pounds or less and bearing a class designation of "A" or
"B"; and used by patrons, occupants (or their guests) or employees of those
uses served by such off street parking facilities, and for the conduct of such
uses served by such off street parking facilities, parked solely in designated
parking spaces and not in or on fire lanes, drive aisles, driveways, or median
strips. Those vehicles greater than eight thousand (8,000) pounds bearing a
class designation of "D" or greater shall be parked or stored in a village
approved loading area, in accordance with the applicable off street parking and
loading requirements for the zoning district in which such vehicles are
located, except as otherwise permitted in approved development ordinances or as
described in subsection H2 of this section. The vehicle classifications
mentioned in this subsection H1 are references to those established by the
Illinois vehicle code. (Ord. 2012-27, 6-11-2012)
      2.   Notwithstanding subsection H1 of this section, the following
vehicles may be parked in an off street parking facility:
         a.   Vans or small buses not in excess of twenty feet (20') in length
used in the transportation of children to and from daycare centers, and
residents of assisted living or residential care facilities.
         b.   Passenger vehicles and vans not in excess of twenty feet (20') in
length used to provide delivery or repair service to customers so long as the
number of vehicles so parked does not exceed the lesser of ten (10) vehicles or
five percent (5%) of the total number of off street parking spaces in the
parking lot of the principal use in which such vehicles are parked.
         c.   Delivery and service vehicles parked in off street parking
facilities and in excess of the lesser of ten (10) vehicles or five percent
(5%) of the total number of off street parking spaces in said parking facility
of the principal use in which such vehicles are parked prior to February 28,
2011, shall be deemed legally nonconforming.
         d.   Recreational vehicles, semitractor trailers, school buses, or
other similar vehicles, the size of which requires more than one parking space,
may park in a parking lot that serves the principal use to which the operator
and/or passengers of each such vehicle are patrons during the period for which
the business is open to customers for the period necessary to patronize such
principal use, but, in any event, not to exceed two (2) hours. In no instance
shall any vehicle block any drive aisle within a parking facility.
         e.   Recreational vehicles, semitractor trailers, or other similar
vehicles requiring more than one parking space may park in commercial parking
facilities if they are required to provide services for special events for
which a temporary land use permit has been issued by the Village to the
shopping center or business located on said commercial lot for a period not to
exceed twelve (12) hours.
      3.   Each required parking space shall be kept available at all times for
parking of one passenger motor vehicle, subject to the exceptions of subsection
H2 of this section.
      4.   No required parking space shall be rented, leased or used for any
purpose other than to park a fully and independently operable, mobile vehicle
in connection with the principal use for which said parking space and the
parking lot of which it is a part is required.
      5.   For applications requiring site plan review or zoning relief
received subsequent to February 28, 2011, loading docks, nonpassenger service
or delivery vehicle parking shall be incorporated into the overall design of
the site plan and building; and masonry building elements, which coordinate
with the principal building, fencing, landscaping, or some combination thereof,
shall screen the visual and acoustic impacts of these functions from adjacent
properties and public streets.
      6.   The requirements of this chapter are applicable to all property
within the Village, regardless of the zoning district in which each such
property is located or the use(s) established on each such property, unless
superseded by specific provisions regarding the amount, timing, placement, and
duration of nonpassenger delivery, service or recreational vehicle parking
contained within parcel specific development ordinances approving relief from
such requirements. In the event of any violation of the requirements of this
chapter, both the building and zoning official and the Police Department shall
be, and are hereby, authorized to issue citations therefor and perform any
lawful action to enforce conformance with this chapter. Such enforcement action
may be taken against the offending vehicle operator or owner and the owner of
the property on which such violation occurs. (Ord. 2011-10, 2-28-2011)
11-13-3: SUBMISSION OF SITE PLAN AND LAND USE DATA:
   A.   All applications for a building permit shall include a site plan, drawn
to scale and fully dimensioned, showing all off street loading and parking
facilities to be provided as required by this chapter. Data shall be provided
specifying:
      1.   The use of the building, structure or land; and
      2.   The number of dwelling units, gross floor area, design capacity,
seating capacity, number of employees, or other units of measurement specified
in this chapter for determining the amount of off street loading and parking
facilities to be provided as required by this chapter.
   B.   All parking areas, including entrances and exits, shall be designed in
accordance with the off street parking chart in section
11-13-4-1 of this chapter.
   C.   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location of all
parking facilities shall be considered in relation to the following:
      1.   Existing and planned streets;
      2.   Reasonable circulation for traffic within and adjacent to parking
areas;
      3.   Topographical conditions and runoff of stormwater; and
      4.   Public convenience and safety. (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990)
   D.   No site development permit, building permit or occupancy certificate
shall be issued until the site plan, showing all required off street loading
and parking facilities, has been reviewed and approved by the Village Planner
and Village Engineer. (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-
13-2017)
11-13-4: OFF STREET PARKING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definitions: The following words and phrases, when used in this
section, shall, for the purpose of this section, have the meanings respectively
ascribed to them in this subsection, except when the context otherwise
requires:
ANTIQUE VEHICLE: A motor vehicle that is more than twenty five (25) years of
age, or a bona fide replica thereof, and which is driven on the highways only
going to and returning from an antique auto show or an exhibition, or for
servicing or demonstration, or a firefighting vehicle more than twenty (20)
years old which is not used as firefighting equipment but is used only for the
purpose of exhibition or demonstration.
BUS: Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten (10) passengers
and used for the transportation of persons; and every motor vehicle, other than
a taxicab, designed and used for the transportation of persons for
compensation.
CAMPER: A recreational motor vehicle of the second division converted or
equipped and primarily used for living quarters or for human habitation rather
than for the transportation of freight, goods, wares and merchandise and not
used as a commercial vehicle.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: A motor vehicle licensed by the state as a "commercial
vehicle", or any vehicle used in a commercial enterprise and/or containing
lettering on the vehicle body advertising a commercial enterprise.
COMMUTER VAN: A motor vehicle having a capacity of twelve (12) to fifteen (15)
persons, owned or leased by a company or an employee organization, and operated
on a nonprofit basis with the primary purpose of transporting employees of the
company between the employees' homes and the company's place of business or a
public transportation station, and in which the operating, administrative,
maintenance and reasonable depreciation costs are paid principally by the
persons utilizing the van.
EXPLOSIVES: Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly used
or intended for the purpose of producing an explosion and which contains any
oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities or packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by
percussion or by detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause
such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous
pressures are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects or
of destroying life or limb.
FLAMMABLE LIQUID: Any liquid which has a flashpoint of seventy degrees
Fahrenheit (70°F) or less, as determined by a Tagliabue or equivalent closed
cup test device.
FLOOR AREA: When applied as the basis of measurement for off street parking
spaces for any use, shall be the sum of the gross horizontal area of the
several floors of the building or buildings, excluding:
      1.   Areas used for off street parking and off street loading facilities;
      2.   The horizontal areas of the basement and cellar floors that are
devoted exclusively to uses accessory to the operation of the entire building;
and
      3.   The horizontal areas of boiler and mechanical rooms used for
heating, ventilating and air conditioning equipment, whether located on the
roof or within the building.
HOUSE CAR: A recreational motor vehicle of the first division converted or
equipped and primarily used for living quarters or for human habitation rather
than as a passenger car, and not used as a commercial vehicle.
HOUSE TRAILER: 1. A recreational trailer or semitrailer equipped and used for
living quarters or for human habitation (temporarily or permanently) rather
than for the transportation of freight, goods, wares and merchandise; or
      2.   A house trailer or a semitrailer which is used commercially
(temporarily or permanently), that is, for the advertising, sales, display or
promotion of merchandise or services, or for any other commercial purpose
except the transportation of property for hire or the transportation of
property for distribution by a private carrier.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which is
propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails. For this definition, "motor vehicles" are divided into two
(2) divisions:
    First Division: Those motor vehicles which are designed for the carrying of
not more than ten (10) persons.
    Second Division: Those motor vehicles which are designed for carrying more
than ten (10) persons, those designed or used for living quarters and those
motor vehicles which are designed for pulling or carrying freight or cargo, and
those motor vehicles of the first division remodeled for use and used as motor
vehicles of the second division.
OWNER: A person who holds legal title of a motor vehicle, or in the event a
motor vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof, with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated
in the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of such motor vehicle
is entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the "owner" for the purpose of this definition.
PARK OR PARKING: The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise
than when temporarily and actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise
or passengers.
PARKING FACILITY: A building, structure, area, lot or part of a lot where off
street parking is provided or permitted.
PARKING LOT: A parking facility where four (4) or more motor vehicles, in
operable condition, are parked, whether or not a fee is charged; where no
equipment or parts are sold and motor vehicles are not processed, rebuilt,
serviced, repaired, hired or sold; and where fuel, grease, oil or other similar
commodities are not dispensed.
PARKING SPACE, AUTOMOBILE: A suitably surfaced and permanently maintained area
on publicly or privately owned property or lot, either within or outside of a
building, of sufficient size to store one standard automobile, in accordance
with the requirements of this chapter, exclusive of passageways, driveways, or
other means of circulation or access.
PASSENGER CAR: A motor vehicle of the first division, including a multipurpose
passenger vehicle, that is designed for carrying not more than ten (10)
persons.
POLE TRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn by
another vehicle and attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach or pole,
or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle, and ordinarily
used for transporting long or irregularly shaped loads such as poles, pipes or
structural members capable, generally, of sustaining themselves as beams
between the supporting connections.
PRIVATE LIVING COACH: A recreational motor vehicle of the second division
equipped and primarily used for living quarters, for human habitation or for
mobile living, rather than for the transportation of persons, with direct
access to the living quarters from the driver's seat and not used as a
commercial vehicle.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Every vehicle originally designed or permanently
converted and primarily used for living quarters or for human habitation, or
for sporting or entertainment purposes, and not used as a commercial vehicle.
Such "recreational vehicles" do not have a private passenger auto license plate
and include, but are not necessarily limited to, house cars, house trailers,
campers, private living coaches, trailers, motorboats, mobile homes, off road
motorcycles, all-terrain vehicles (ATVs), snowmobiles, jet skis, and wave
runners, with or without trailers, and any other vehicle stored on trailers.
Off street parking for "recreational vehicles" shall be consistent with the
provisions contained in this chapter.
SEMITRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power, other than a pole trailer,
designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a motor
vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its load
rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
TOW TRUCK: Every truck designed or altered and equipped for and used to push,
tow or draw disabled vehicles by means of a crane, hoist, towbar, towline or
auxiliary axle, and to render assistance to disabled vehicles.
TRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power in operation, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that no part of its weight rests upon the
towing vehicle.
TRUCK-TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn. (Ord. 78-39, 10-9-1978; amd. Ord.
90-57, 10-8-1990; Ord. 90-58, 10-8-1990; Ord. 2003-41, 11-17-2003; Ord. 2013-
33, 10-28-2013)
   B.   Location:
      1.   All required off street parking facilities, which serve a building,
structure, or land use, which are erected, established, altered, enlarged, or
intensified after the effective date hereof, and all such parking facilities
which are established or increased voluntarily pursuant to this chapter, shall
be located on the same lot as the building, structure, or use of land to be
served. (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990)
      2.   If it is determined by the Village Planner and the Village Engineer
that there are particular difficulties in locating off street parking
facilities on the same lot, and the use would be better served by providing
parking on a different lot, the following provisions shall be met: (Ord. 90-59,
10-8-1990; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
         a.   The parking facility shall begin within three hundred feet
(300'), including streets, of the building, structure, or land to be served;
and
         b.   The parking facility shall be located in the same zoning district
as that of the use to be served.
      3.   Under no circumstances shall off street parking required to serve
single-family and two-family residences be located on other than the same lot
as the residence to be served.
   C.   Collective Parking Facilities:
      1.   In any zoning district, where compatible, collective off street
parking facilities for different buildings, structures, uses, or mixed uses may
be permitted by the Village as a special use.
      2.   The total number of spaces to be provided may be less than the sum
of the separate parking requirements specified in section
11-13-4-2 of this chapter, for each building or use; provided, that:
         a.   The parking to be provided for individual land uses shall reflect
the actual peak demand for parking as defined by ordinance;
         b.   The land uses and the shared parking facility shall be owned by
the same developer, owner, public agency or the Village;
         c.   The land uses and the shared parking facility shall be located
close enough to one another so that individuals would be willing to walk to
each use from most points in the parking facility;
         d.   Parking spaces to be shared shall not be reserved for certain
individuals or groups on a twenty four (24) hour basis;
         e.   Any subsequent change in land uses within the mixed development
shall require a new occupancy permit and proof that sufficient parking shall be
available; and (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990)
         f.   Parking spaces to be shared through the use of a collective
parking facility, as provided by this subsection, may provide for the sharing
of a maximum of sixty percent (60%) of the total parking spaces to be provided
for all buildings, structures, or land uses being served by said collective
parking facility. (Ord. 2007-20, 5-24-2007)
      3.   The parking facility shall be subject to the procedures and
requirements for the grant of a special use permit as specified in section
11-3-4 of this title. (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990)
   D.   Land Banking: The Village Board may approve land banking of some off
street parking spaces; provided, that:
      1.   Sufficient evidence is presented that the spaces to be constructed
sufficiently accommodate the parking needs for the project; and
      2.   The area of the subject property where the parking spaces are to be
land banked shall be illustrated on all site plans depicting the improvement of
the subject property in the manner proposed; and
      3.   The ordinance approving the project shall be recorded in the Office
of the County Recorder. (Ord. 2007-20, 5-24-2007)
   E.   Control Of Parking Facilities:
      1.   Whenever off street parking facilities are permitted on a parcel of
land other than the lot on which the building, structure, or use of land to be
served is located, such facilities shall be in and shall remain in the same
possession as that of the lot occupied by the building, structure, or use of
land to which said parking facilities are an accessory. Such possession shall
be shown by deed or lease, a copy of which shall be filed with the Village
Engineer. (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
      2.   Covenants running with the land shall be recorded in the Office of
the County Recorder of Deeds, as follows:
         a.   For the lot upon which the accessory off street parking is
located, a covenant shall provide for the required number of off street parking
spaces to be provided and maintained during the existence of the building,
structure, or use of land for which such parking is provided, or until another
lot of the required size within the required distance is properly developed and
used for the required accessory off street parking in place of and in lieu of
the initial lot with the same requirements, covenants and conditions attaching
to said substitute accessory use lot;
         b.   For the lot upon which the building, structure, or use of land is
located, the covenants shall provide for the building or structure to be used
or the use of land maintained only for as long as the required number of off
street parking spaces are provided and maintained in accordance with this
chapter; and (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990)
         c.   Such covenants are subject to review by the Village Engineer and
the Village Attorney, and approval by the Village Board of Trustees as to
content and form. (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-
2017)
   F.   Yards: In addition to the regulations set forth in this subsection, off
street parking shall comply with sections
11-5-11 and
11-5-12 of this title.
      1.   Single-Family Residential Districts: Parking facilities shall comply
with the following:
         a.   Driveways may be located in any yard except the required front
yard or corner side yard; provided, however, that for single-family detached
and attached dwellings and duplexes, if one of the required parking spaces is
provided within a garage, the other required parking space may be located in
the garage driveway, which may protrude into a required front or corner side
yard; and (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990)
         b.   Driveways shall not be located within eight feet (8') of any
property line except when they serve detached garages as permitted in
subsection 11-5-9B1 of this title; provided, that paved access drives to
permitted paved surfaces for storing recreational vehicles shall not be located
within three feet (3') of any property line; and provided, that there is no
adverse effect to existing grading and drainage conditions. (Ord. 2003-41, 11-
17-2003)
      2.   All Other Districts (Including Multi-Family Residential): Parking
may be located in any yard; provided, however, that no parking facilities or
roads shall be located in the following setbacks:
         a.   The first thirty feet (30') of a required front yard;
         b.   A thirty foot (30') setback along a side lot line which is
adjacent to a public roadway;
         c.   A ten foot (10') setback along interior sides of property lines;
         d.   Minimum rear yards; and
         e.   Twenty feet (20') along interior side lot lines that separate
different districts or land uses.
      3.   Accessory Building Or Structure:
         a.   If an off street parking facility has a parking attendant shelter
building or structure, said building or structure shall conform to all yard
requirements for the zoning district in which it is located; and (Ord. 90-59,
10-8-1990)
         b.   A building or structure that is accessory to a parking facility
shall also comply with the provisions of section
11-5-9 of this title regulating accessory structures and uses. (Ord. 90-59, 10-
8-1990; amd. Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013)
   G.   Access And Driveway Requirements:
      1.   Access: Access to off street parking facilities along streets or
improved alleys shall be located in such a manner as to least interfere with
traffic movement and shall be subject to the review and approval of the Village
Planner and the Village Engineer. (Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013; amd. Ord. 2017-42,
11-13-2017)
      2.   Driveway Requirements In Single-Family Residential Districts:
         a.   The maximum widths for driveways for single-family residences
shall be based on the following:
            (1)   Driveways leading to one or two (2) spaces or a one or two
(2) car garage, the maximum width may not exceed the width of the garage doors,
plus three feet (3') on each side of the garage door opening. In lieu of three
feet (3') on each side of the garage door opening, the pavement may be located
to one side of the existing driveway, subject to applicable setback
requirements.
            (2)   Driveways leading to three (3) spaces or a three (3) car
garage, the maximum width may not exceed width of the garage doors, with three
feet (3') on each side of the garage doors. Further, at a point fifteen feet
(15') from the front of the garage, this width must taper to twenty two feet
(22') at the property line.
            (3)   Driveways leading to four (4) spaces or a four (4) car
garage, the maximum width shall not exceed the width of the garage doors, plus
three feet (3') on each side of the outermost garage door opening. Further, at
a point fifteen feet (15') from the front of the garage door opening, this
width must taper to no more than thirty feet (30') at the property line. The
taper may be placed on either or both sides of the outer edges of the driveway.
            (4)   In addition to subsections G2a(1), G2a(2) and G2a(3) of this
section, where the property owner desires to provide a paved parking surface
for a "recreational vehicle", as defined in subsection A of this section, in
the permitted side or rear yard locations, as described in subsection P of this
section, a paved access drive will be permitted to this location no greater
than ten feet (10') in width. Notwithstanding this subsection, the width of
driveway at the property line shall remain as provided in subsections G2a(1),
G2a(2) and G2a(3) of this section.
            (5)   Driveway width for side loaded garages shall be a maximum of
twenty two feet (22'), and there shall be a minimum eight feet (8') from the
side lot line.
            (6)   Driveway aprons may have a maximum flare three feet (3') wide
on each side at the curb. (Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013)
         b.   (1) No driveway may have more than one street entrance or curb
cut, except in the ER-1 and the R-1 Single-Family Residence Districts, or on
other single-family residence lots with a minimum lot width of one hundred feet
(100'), where up to two (2) entrances or curb cuts are permitted for a circular
drive. The width of said circular drive shall be no greater than twelve feet
(12') for the curved portion of the drive that is not in a direct line from the
garage opening to the curb. (Ord. 2003-41, 11-17-2003)
            (2)   Requests for exceptions to this requirement shall be made in
writing to the Village Building Department. Such request shall explain the need
and provide a justification for such an exception. The Village Building
Department may grant such an exception if it finds that the justification
addresses legitimate traffic safety concerns or personal hardship involving
health and safety on the part of the occupants of the household applying for
such an exception. The decision of the Village Building Department may be
appealed to the Planning and Zoning Commission as provided in section
11-3-7 of this title. (Ord. 2003-41, 11-17-2003; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014;
Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
         c.   On roads with high traffic volumes, including Bloomingdale Road,
Schick Road, Lake Street, Glen Ellyn Road, and Army Trail Road, the Village
Building Department may permit the construction of a turnaround space in the
front yard.
         d.   The Village Building Department is hereby authorized to prepare,
and amend from time to time, such guidance documents as are necessary to
facilitate the orderly enforcement of this subsection G2. (Ord. 2003-41, 11-17-
2003; amd. Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
   H.   Computation Of Number Of Spaces:
      1.   The total number of off street parking spaces required for any
building, structure or use of land shall be based upon specifications contained
in section
11-13-4-2 of this chapter.
      2.   For purposes of this calculation, the following shall apply:
         a.   If, in determining the number of off street parking spaces
required by section
11-13-4-2 of this chapter, the computation results in a required fractional
parking space, any fraction of less than one-half (1/2) may be disregarded,
while a fraction of one-half (1/2) or more shall be counted as one additional
parking space;
         b.   Off street parking spaces required on an employee basis shall be
determined based upon the maximum number of employees on duty and/or residing
on the premises at any one time;
         c.   For calculations based upon the number of seats or seating space,
the following shall apply:
            (1)   A seat shall be the space intended for one individual; and
            (2)   In places where patrons or spectators occupy benches, pews,
or other seating facilities, each eighteen (18) linear inches of such seating
facility shall be counted as one seat; (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990)
         d.   When a particular use is not listed in section
11-13-4-2 of this chapter, the Village Engineer shall determine the parking
requirements of said use by assigning the same parking facility requirements as
another use which is deemed to be similar in nature to, and compatible with,
said unlisted use; and (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42,
11-13-2017)
         e.   Parking spaces for accessory uses not specifically enumerated in
section
11-13-4-2 of this chapter shall be included with the principal use requirement.
(Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990)
         f.   (1) For commercial office developments under five thousand
(5,000) gross square feet in area, the required amount of parking shall be the
greater of:
               (A)   Fifteen (15) spaces; or
               (B)   The amount of spaces provided by section
11-13-4-2 of this chapter.
            (2)   For commercial retail developments, where the parking
requirement is five (5) spaces per one thousand (1,000) gross square feet of
area, the required amount of parking shall be the greater of:
               (A)   Fifteen (15) spaces; or
               (B)   The amount of spaces indicated by section
11-13-4-2 of this chapter.
            (3)   For medical office developments, where the parking
requirement is five (5) spaces per one thousand (1,000) gross square feet of
area, the required amount of parking shall be the greater of:
               (A)   Twenty (20) spaces; or
               (B)   The amount of spaces indicated by section
11-13-4-2 of this chapter.
            (4)   For stand alone restaurant related developments, where the
parking requirement is thirteen (13) spaces per one thousand (1,000) gross
square feet of area, the required amount of parking shall be the greater of:
               (A)   Twenty (20) spaces; or
               (B)   The amount of spaces indicated by section
11-13-4-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 2007-20, 5-24-2007)
   I.   Utilization Of Off Street Parking Facilities:
      1.   Space Not To Satisfy Off Street Loading: Space allocated to any off
street parking facility shall not, while so allocated, be used to satisfy any
off street loading facilities requirements.
      2.   Permitted Parking Of Commercial Vehicles In Residential Zoning
Districts: Notwithstanding provisions contained elsewhere in this subsection
for parking of private passenger vehicles and recreational vehicles in
residential zoning districts, no more than one commercial vehicle, subject to
the limitations provided in subsection I3 of this section, may be parked on an
unenclosed residential driveway or parking lot if in a multi-family residence
district subject to the limitations in subsection I5 of this section. The
commercial vehicle shall not encroach into the public right of way or otherwise
block the sidewalk.
      3.   Commercial Vehicle Used For Employment: The commercial vehicle shall
be required for the employment of at least one of the occupants of the
residence which the unenclosed driveway is designed to serve.
      4.   Prohibited Commercial Vehicles In Residential Zoning Districts: The
following vehicles, along with any equipment trailers that may be attached to
them, shall be prohibited: semitrucks, tractor trailers, step vans, box trucks,
ambulances, tow trucks, car carriers, medivans, buses, commuter vans (unless
used as part of a government sponsored ridesharing program), or pole trailers,
as depicted below:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2030.gif]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2034.gif][https://export.amlegal.com/media/
bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/IMAGES/0-0-0-2032.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2036.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2038.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2040.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2042.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2044.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2046.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2048.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2050.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2052.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2054.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2056.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2058.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2060.gif]
      5.   Permitted Commercial Vehicles In Residential Zoning Districts: The
following commercial vehicles are permitted: passenger vehicles, vans and
pickup trucks, which may include racks for storing ladders and other equipment,
utility cabinets, and apparatus used to cover pickup truck beds for purposes of
conveying equipment or merchandise, as depicted below:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2062.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2064.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2066.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2068.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2070.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2072.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2074.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2076.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2078.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2080.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2082.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2084.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2086.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2088.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2090.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2092.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2094.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2098.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2100.gif]
      6.   Parking Location Of Commercial Vehicle; Prohibited Parking: A
permitted commercial vehicle must be parked on a paved surface at least eight
feet (8') from the side, corner side, or rear property line of the lot;
however, it may be located closer than eight feet (8') if parked on a driveway
leading to a detached garage in the R-2 single-family residential zoning
district. Notwithstanding the foregoing restrictions, homeowners' associations
as defined in 765 Illinois Compiled Statutes 160/1-5 in residential planned
developments, townhomes, and condominiums, may prohibit the parking of a
commercial vehicle through legally binding covenants.
      7.   Cover Required For Items In Bed Of Truck: The equipment and material
stored in the bed of a pickup or flatbed truck must be covered by a
commercially manufactured cover (e.g., tonneau cover) or tarp if it extends
above the side walls of the vehicle.
      8.   Guidance Documents: The building and zoning official is authorized
to prepare such guidance documents as are necessary to facilitate enforcement
of these regulations. (Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013)
   J.   Size And Configuration:
      1.   Single-Family Residence: A required off street parking space for all
single-family attached or detached dwellings shall be at least nine feet (9')
in width and at least twenty one feet (21') in length; except, however, where
an attached garage faces the side lot line and access to the garage is provided
from a drive which begins at the front property line, the width of the drive
shall not be less than twenty four feet (24').
      2.   Other Uses: For all other uses, required off street parking spaces
shall be at least nine feet (9') in width and at least eighteen feet (18') in
length, exclusive of access drives, aisles, ramps, columns, office or work
areas. An automobile may or may not overhang a curb; provided, that
landscaping, sidewalks and light standards are not impaired. The defined
parking space shall be eighteen feet (18') in length as measured from the
outside edge of the curb. Enclosed parking spaces shall have a vertical
clearance of at least seven feet (7'). (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990)
      3.   Parking Spaces For Persons With Disabilities:
         a.   Parking spaces for persons with disabilities shall be provided in
accordance with the requirements of the Illinois capital development board,
effective July 1, 1988 (and as may be amended from time to time), such spaces
being at least sixteen feet (16') wide, and as recommended by the Planning and
Zoning Commission and approved by the Village Board of Trustees. (Ord. 90-59,
10-8-1990; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
         b.   The Village may, upon review of a specific request, require
additional accessible off street parking spaces for disabled persons as deemed
necessary by the Village, in its sole discretion. Such additional off street
parking spaces, along with their appurtenant ramps and building accessways, may
be required for such uses as medical offices, senior citizen housing and
services, and places of assembly; provided, however, the Village may require no
more additional accessible off street parking spaces than fifty percent (50%)
more than that required by Federal and State Accessibility Codes or a maximum
of four (4) additional accessible spaces, whichever is the lesser. (Ord. 2007-
20, 5-24-2007; amd. 2012 Code)
      4.   Off Street Parking Chart: All other requirements as to parking
stalls and aisle widths shall be as set forth or interpolated from the off
street parking chart in section
11-13-4-1 of this chapter.
   K.   Design And Maintenance: In addition to the requirements set forth in
section
11-13-4-1 of this chapter, the following criteria shall apply to the design of
all off street parking facilities:
      1.   General On Site Circulation Design Standards:
         a.   Parking facilities shall be designed with careful regard to
orderly arrangement, topography, landscaping, and ease of access and shall be
developed as an integral part of an overall site design; and
         b.   There shall be adequate, safe, and convenient arrangement of
pedestrian circulation between roadways, driveways and off street parking and
loading spaces.
      2.   Open And Enclosed Parking Spaces:
         a.   Accessory parking spaces, located on the same lot as the use to
be served, may be open to the sky, enclosed, or semienclosed in a building or
structure;
         b.   Accessory parking spaces located on other than the same lot as
the use to be served, shall be open to the sky; and
         c.   Enclosed or semienclosed buildings containing off street parking
spaces shall comply with the yard requirements for the district in which they
are located, and with the provisions of subsection F of this section.
      3.   Surfacing:
         a.   All open off street parking areas shall be improved with a
compacted crushed aggregate base not less than six inches (6") thick, and shall
be surfaced with asphaltic concrete not less than two inches (2") thick;
         b.   All single-family detached and attached dwellings, duplexes and
garage driveways serving as parking areas shall be improved with portland
cement concrete (3,500 psi) not less than six inches (6") in thickness; and
(Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990)
         c.   Alternative materials which provide equivalent strength may be
used subject to approval by the Village Engineer.
      4.   Curbing: All off street parking facilities consisting of four (4) or
more spaces shall be improved with concrete curbing as approved by the Village
Engineer. (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
      5.   Screening And Landscaping:
         a.   All open off street automobile parking areas containing four (4)
or more spaces and which are located adjacent to or across the street from a
residential or an institutional use must be effectively screened in order to
eliminate unsightliness and the monotony of large concentrations of parked cars
and to prevent the direct light from automobile headlights from being cast upon
adjacent residential or institutional properties.
            (1)   Such screening may be accomplished through the use of
landscaped berms, plant materials, decorative wall or fence, or a combination
of such methods, around the perimeter of that portion of the parking lot which
is exposed to the view of the residential or institutional property;
            (2)   A decorative wall or fence shall not be less than five feet
(5') nor more than six feet (6') in height;
            (3)   If plant materials are used, a continuous dense planting, not
less than five feet (5') in height, shall be provided; and
            (4)   All such screening of off street loading and parking
facilities shall maintain a minimum of seventy five percent (75%) opacity year
round.
         b.   A planting strip, not less than ten feet (10') wide, shall be
provided along that portion of an off street parking facility adjacent to any
public or private street to separate and screen off street parking areas from
adjacent streets. Landscaping shall include, at a minimum, deciduous street
trees, as approved by the Village Planner, not less than forty feet (40') on
center.
         c.   A landscaped buffer strip shall be provided and maintained at a
width of not less than ten feet (10') between a parking lot and the property
line of adjoining property. Landscaping of said buffer strip shall include, at
a minimum, trees spaced not less than forty feet (40') on center. (Ord. 90-59,
10-8-1990)
         d.   In addition to any landscaped front, back or side yard areas
required by this chapter or any other provision of this title, a minimum of ten
percent (10%) of any open off street parking facility containing twenty (20) or
more spaces shall be provided with interior landscaping to create visual relief
and break (soften) the expanse of paving. (Note: Foundation planting areas
which abut the parking lot, or are separated from the lot by a public walkway,
may be included in the calculation.) (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990; amd. 2012 Code)
            (1)   All interior landscaped areas shall be curbed to prevent the
destruction of such areas by vehicles;
            (2)   An area between two feet (2') and five feet (5') aboveground
shall be kept clear of plant growth, except for tree trunks, in order to assure
that pedestrians and automobiles will be visible to a motorist at all times;
and (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990)
            (3)   Interior landscaping shall include, at a minimum, one
deciduous street tree, as approved by the Village Planner, for each ten (10)
parking spaces. (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990; amd. Ord. 2007-20, 5-24-2007)
            (4)   The minimum area of an interior landscaped parking island
shall be three hundred twenty four (324) square feet. (Ord. 2007-20, 5-24-2007)
         e.   Trees installed in perimeter yards and parking lot islands shall
comply with minimum sizes set forth below, notwithstanding that tree
replacement installed as part of an approved plan may need to be larger in
size: (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990; amd. 2012 Code)
            (1)   Deciduous canopy trees: Three inches (3") in caliper minimum,
as measured six inches (6") from grade when installed;
            (2)   Evergreen trees: Six feet (6') to eight feet (8') in height;
and
            (3)   Ornamental trees: Six feet (6') to eight feet (8') in height.
         f.   All landscaping shall be permanently maintained in good condition
with at least the same quality of landscaping as initially installed. (Ord. 90-
59, 10-8-1990)
         g.   Proposed landscaping of off street parking facilities shall be
subject to review and approval of the Village Planner and the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
      6.   Lighting: Plans for parking lot, security, and walkway lighting
shall comply with the provisions of chapter 20, "Exterior Lighting", of this
title. (Ord. 2013-19, 4-22-2013)
      7.   Striping:
         a.   All off street parking spaces located in areas which provide for
the parking of four (4) or more vehicles shall be properly marked by durable
painted lines at least four inches (4") wide.
         b.   Such striping shall extend the full length of the parking space
in order to identify individual spaces. (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990)
      8.   Access Control And Signage:
         a.   Access Control:
            (1)   There shall be no more than one entrance and one exit, or one
combined entrance and exit, along any street unless an additional entrance/exit
is recommended by the Planning and Zoning Commission and approved by the
Village Board for the alleviation of traffic congestion and interference of
traffic movement along such street. (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990; amd. Ord. 2014-48,
10-27-2014)
            (2)   One-way driveways shall be clearly marked with appropriate
entrance and exit signs; and (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990)
            (3)   If, in the opinion of the Village Engineer, traffic in the
vicinity of the site warrants the restriction of turning movement or access to
and from a parking facility, signs or driveway modifications necessary to
accomplish said restriction shall be provided. (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990; amd.
2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
         b.   Signage: Accessory signs for off street parking facilities shall
be permitted in accordance with the provisions specified in subsection 11-14-9B
of this title.
      9.   Drainage:
         a.   Off street parking spaces, aisles or access driveways shall not
be drained onto or across public rights-of-way, sidewalks or walkways, or onto
any adjacent property, except into a natural watercourse or drainage easement.
(Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990)
         b.   All off street parking facility plans for more than four (4)
vehicles shall be reviewed and approved by the Village Engineer for adequate
stormwater drainage. (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-
13-2017)
      10.   Turning Radii And Turnaround Requirements: All parking areas,
except for detached and semidetached single-family and townhouse dwellings,
shall have a circular traffic pattern and adequate maneuvering space to allow
safe vehicular entrance and exit.
   L.   Repair And Service:
      1.   No motor vehicle repair work or service of any kind shall be
permitted within any off street parking facility four (4) or more spaces in
size.
      2.   No gasoline or motor oil shall be sold in any accessory off street
parking facility. (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990)
   M.   Old Town Parking Requirements: Because of the unique characteristics
and special needs of the Old Town District, the regulations set forth in this
chapter may be modified after review by the Planning and Zoning Commission and
approval by the Village Board of Trustees of an individual petition for
development within the Old Town District. Said petition shall be treated as an
application for a special use permit and shall be subject to the procedures and
requirements for the grant of a special use permit set forth in chapter 11 of
this title. (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
   N.   Special Uses, Including Planned Unit Developments: For special uses,
including planned unit development districts, other than those listed in
section
11-13-4-2 of this chapter, off street parking facilities adequate in size to
serve such uses shall be provided as recommended by the Planning and Zoning
Commission and approved by the Village Board of Trustees. (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-
1990; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
   O.   Guest Parking: Additional guest parking supplemental to the standards
contained in section
11-13-4-2 of this chapter may be required upon recommendation by the Village
Engineer and approval by the Village Board of Trustees. (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990;
amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
   P.   Parking Recreational Vehicles: Off street parking of recreational
vehicles (RVs), as defined in subsection A of this section, in open air,
unenclosed, or locations otherwise not contained in a garage, is permitted only
under the following limitations and conditions:
      1.   Number: One unoccupied recreational vehicle may be parked in an
unenclosed location, as permitted in this subsection. In lieu of a single
unoccupied recreational vehicle, there may be a maximum of four (4) of any
combination of the following vehicles: snowmobiles, wave runners, jet skis, off
road motorcycles, and all-terrain vehicles, either parked on a single trailer
or directly on a paved or grassy surface, which shall be located on the
residential lot in a manner consistent with this chapter.
      2.   Size/Length Limitations: For all single-family lots less than
eighteen thousand (18,000) square feet, recreational vehicles shall not exceed
thirty six feet (36') in length. "Length" is defined as the entire distance of
the vehicle from the front to the rear, including any trailer hitches and any
other protrusions. There are no length limitations for lots that are eighteen
thousand (18,000) square feet and over. (Ord. 2003-41, 11-17-2003)
      3.   Parking Surface:
         a.   Unenclosed recreational vehicles shall be parked on a graded
paved surface or a graded unpaved grassy surface appropriate to their weight
and dimension so as to minimize damage to residential yards. Where required,
paved surfaces shall consist of concrete, asphalt, paver blocks, or other
surface driveway types as approved by the building and zoning official. Where
required, the pavement shall consist of a single paved area, the minimum
dimension of which shall include the outer perimeter measurement of the
wheelbase and an additional foot in both length and width. (Ord. 2003-41, 11-
17-2003; amd. 2012 Code)
         b.   Any damage incurred to the yard by the transporting of RVs from
the designated storage location to the street shall be corrected according to
the village property maintenance codes.
         c.   The following schedule indicates the type of surface required by
specific RV and trailer categories:
 
Type                                                          Surface
Boats                                                         Graded, unpaved
Motorized coaches, any length                                 Paved
Personal RVs, including jet skis, wave runners, all- terrain  Graded, unpaved
vehicles, snowmobiles, and off road motorcycles
Pop-up campers                                                Graded, unpaved
Trailers, box type, loaded or empty, platform type, or travel Graded, unpaved
trailers, under 18 feet in length
Trailers, box type, loaded or empty, platform type, or travel Paved
trailers, 18 feet in length and over
 
      4.   Permitted Zoning Districts:
         a.   Outside storage of RVs and/or trailers is permitted in single-
family residential districts of ER-1, R-1, R-2, R-2A, R-2B, the single-family
residential portions of R-3, and the single-family residential portions of
planned developments, unless specifically prohibited by the ordinance or
covenants attached to said planned development.
         b.   Parking of RVs and/or trailers is also permitted in R-4 zones
where there is a designated parking area for such vehicles approved by the
apartment complex management or condominium homeowners' association, and said
parking area is not visible from any street; provided, that parking in said
complex is sufficient to meet the needs of residents and guests and that such
vehicles can be accommodated in a standard parking space that is nine feet (9')
in width and eighteen feet (18') in length.
      5.   Location: Recreational vehicle and trailer parking is permitted in
the following locations and under the following conditions:
         a.   Side Yard:
            (1)   Side yard, as defined in section
11-2-2 of this title, on interior lot: Permitted not less than three feet (3')
from the side lot line, provided there is no adverse impact to existing grading
and drainage, and provided the RV and/or trailer is not parked in a side yard
on the side of the house with windows which serve as light, ventilation and
means of egress in case of fire, as required by the building code.
            (2)   Side yard on a corner lot: Prohibited on that side yard which
abuts the street. For that side yard which abuts an interior lot, parking is
permitted under the conditions contained in subsection P4a of this section.
         b.   Front Yard: Front yard, as defined in section
11-2-2 of this title: Parking in the front yard shall be prohibited except as
otherwise permitted for temporary parking pursuant to subsection P7 of this
section.
         c.   Rear Yard:
            (1)   Rear yard, as defined in section
11-2-2 of this title, on an interior lot: Permitted not less than three feet
(3') from a side lot line and eight feet (8') from the rear lot line, provided
there is no adverse impact to existing drainage and grading. Distance from the
main structure shall be a minimum of ten feet (10').
            (2)   If a corner lot, not within or projecting into that portion
of the rear yard formed by the side lot line adjoining the street and a line
extending from the side of the main building parallel to the lot line adjoining
the street. (Ord. 2003-41, 11-17-2003)
         d.   Through Lot:
            (1)   Through lot on an interior lot, as defined in section
11-2-2 of this title: In the side or rear yard as permitted in subsections P5a,
P5b and P5c of this section, but if in the rear yard, no closer than the
minimum front yard depth for the zoning district from the rear lot line.
            (2)   On a through lot on a corner lot, not within or projecting
into that portion of the rear yard formed by the side lot line adjoining the
street and a line extending from the side of the main building parallel to the
lot line adjoining the street. (Ord. 2003-41, 11-17-2003; amd. 2012 Code)
      6.   Screening Requirements: Notwithstanding the regulations for fencing
contained in chapter 19, "Fencing And Screening", of this title, landscaping or
fencing appropriate to screen or buffer the appearance of recreational vehicles
from the side or rear yards shall be provided. Landscaped screening or
buffering shall consist of species which retain their foliage year round. Where
space is limited, screening or buffering shall be accomplished with a semiopen,
board on board wood fence with a maximum height of six feet (6'). Existing
perimeter yard landscaping or fencing, either opaque or semiopen (board on
board), may suffice for some or all of the screening requirement. Such
landscaping or fencing may or may not be located on the lot where the RV is to
be located. The building and zoning official is authorized to prepare such
guidance documents as are necessary to facilitate enforcement of this
requirement. (Ord. 2012-27, 6-11-2012)
      7.   Temporary Provisions:
         a.   For loading or unloading purposes or for minor vehicle servicing,
the building and zoning official may, upon written notification prior to the
parking of a recreational vehicle, provide permission to allow an RV to be
parked in the front yard, on a paved surface, for a forty eight (48) hour
period within any period of seven (7) consecutive days, not to exceed a total
of sixteen (16) days in a calendar year. Said forty eight (48) hour period
cannot be back to back.
         b.   For short term visitor parking, the building and zoning official
may, upon written notification prior to the parking of a recreational vehicle,
provide permission to allow an RV belonging to a visitor from outside of the
Village to be parked on a paved surface in the front yard in a residence
district for a period not to exceed seven (7) days for any one visit or fifteen
(15) days in a calendar year.
         c.   For temporary parking of boats covering the period of time of
transfer from water to off season storage, or vice versa, the building and
zoning official, upon written notification, may permit parking in the front
yard, in an approved manner, for up to a three (3) week period, no more than
two (2) times per year. (Ord. 2003-41, 11-17-2003; amd. 2012 Code)
         d.   For temporary storage in the front yard, at no time shall the RV
extend closer than fifteen feet (15') from the nearest edge of the pavement of
any street or three feet (3') from the edge of any public sidewalk.
         e.   If the RV is used for trips to work, said RV may be parked in the
front driveway, provided it shall not exceed twenty feet (20') in length. (Ord.
2003-41, 11-17-2003)
      8.   Additional Requirements:
         a.   The Village Building Department is hereby authorized to prepare
necessary guidance documents and make such interpretations as are necessary in
the interest of public health, safety and welfare as well as in the interest of
the orderly and efficient administration of this subsection. (Ord. 2003-41, 11-
17-2003; amd. Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
         b.   At no time shall a parked or stored RV be used for living,
sleeping, or other purposes. No RV shall be connected to gas, water, or
sanitary sewer service, although temporary hookups to residential water
connections for purposes of preparing vehicles for road excursions are
permitted.
         c.   The owner of an RV shall not park or store the RV in a manner so
as to create a dangerous or unsafe condition on the lot where parked or stored
or to adjacent property. Parking or storage in such a fashion that the RV may
readily tip or roll shall be considered a dangerous or unsafe condition.
         d.   RVs shall not have their wheels removed or be affixed to the
ground so as to prevent ready removal of the vehicle; except, that nonmotorized
RVs and trailers may be stored with the wheels removed.
         e.   RVs shall not be used as accessory structures.
         f.   The RV and its storage area on the lot shall be maintained in a
neat and orderly manner.
         g.   No major repairs shall be performed on any RV except within an
enclosed garage.
         h.   The storage of explosives within or upon any recreational vehicle
is prohibited. This prohibition does not include safety flares required by
State law for watercraft. (Ord. 2003-41, 11-17-2003)
11-13-4-1: CHART OF PARKING STALL SPECIFICATIONS:
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2102.gif]
 
Parking Aisle  Curb Length  Stall Depth  Stall Width  Aisle Width  Bay Width
(Degrees) P    (Feet) C     (Feet) S     (Feet) W     (Feet) A     (Feet) B
90             9.0          18.0         9.0          24.0         60.0
60             10.4         20.0         9.0          16.0         56.0
45             12.7         19.1         9.0          12.0         50.2
01             24.0         24.0         9.0          24.0         n/a
 
Note: These standards are for a 9 foot by 18 foot parking stall. Drawing is not
to scale.
   1.    Parallel parking.
(Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990)
11-13-4-2: NUMBER OF PARKING SPACES REQUIRED:
Parking Category Number And Type Of Use Number Of Required Parking Spaces
Parking Category Number And Type Of Use  Number Of Required Parking Spaces
1 - Residential Uses:
  Dwelling, single-family attached
  Dwelling, 2 units                      2, to be located on the lot, plus 2.5
 Dwelling, 3 units                      per each dwelling unit for guest
  Mobile home parks                      parking
  Quadraplexes
                                         2 per dwelling unit for all units with
                                         less than 3 bedrooms, with 1 to be
                                         located indoors; 2.5 per dwelling unit
                                         for all units with 3 or more bedrooms,
                                         with 1 to be located indoors.
                                         Additionally, guest parking spaces
                                         shall be provided for all multiple-
                                         family dwellings at a ratio of not
  Multiple-family dwellings, 2 or more   less than 1 space for every 4 units.
 stories                                The location of said guest parking
                                         spaces shall be convenient to major
                                         ingress and egress points of the
                                         building(s) in which the multiple-
                                         family dwellings to be served by the
                                         guest parking are located. Said guest
                                         spaces shall be available for guest
                                         use at all times and shall not be sold
                                         or leased to individual unit owners or
                                         occupants
  Dormitories                            5 per each 1,000 square feet of gross
 Fraternities/sororities                floor area
  Lodging houses
                                         1 per each employee, plus 1 per each
 Childcare centers                      15 children based on rated design
                                         capacity
2 - Schools:
 Business schools                       1 per each 5 students, plus 1 per each
                                         2 employees
  Dancing schools or studios             5 per each 1,000 square feet of gross
 Music schools with sales of            floor area
  instruments
 Nursery schools                        1 per each employee, plus 1 per each
                                         800 square feet of gross floor area
                                         1 per each employee, plus 1 per each
 Children's day schools                 15 children based on rated design
                                         capacity
  Elementary schools, public or private  1 per each faculty member and other
 Junior high schools, public or private full time employee, plus 1 per each 2
                                         classrooms for visitors
                                         1 per each full time employee, plus 1
 Senior high schools, public or private per each 7 students based on design
                                         capacity
 Colleges or universities               1 per each employee, plus 1 per each 4
  Junior colleges                        students
 Trade schools                          1 per each 2 employees, plus 1 per
  Vocational                             each 5 students
3 - Religious/Institutional:
  Convents                               1 per 5 residents, plus 1 per each
 Monasteries                            nonresident employee, plus visitor
  Religious retreats                     parking as per village board
  Seminaries                             recommendation
                                         The initial design of cemeteries
                                         should include streets that allow for
 Cemeteries                             adequate parallel parking, plus a
                                         minimum of 7 spaces for customer
                                         parking near the cemetery office, if
                                         there is one
                                         2 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
 Mausoleums                             area, plus 0.75 per each employee,
                                         plus 1 for each vehicle owned, leased
                                         or rented
                                         1 per 3 seats, with every 18 inches of
 Churches and assembly uses             a pew or bench style seat equating to
                                         1 seat
4 - Recreational/Civic/Social:
 Dance halls                            Spaces equal to 30 percent of
                                         capacity, plus 1 per each employee
 Gymnasiums                             3.3 per each 1,000 square feet of
                                         gross floor area
 Indoor skating rink                    10 per each 1,000 square feet of gross
                                         floor area
 Auditoriums                            Spaces equal to 30 percent of
  Meeting halls                          capacity, plus 1 per each 2 employees
                                         3 per 1,000 square feet of gross land
  Outdoor amusement establishments such  area, plus additional spaces for
 as trampoline center, miniature golf   accessory uses in accordance with the
  course, kiddy park                     provisions of this section
                                         11-13-4
  Billiard/pool halls
 Physical culture and health services,  5 per each 1,000 square feet of gross
  tanning salons                         floor area
  Reducing salons, masseurs
 Libraries                              1.25 per each 1,000 square feet of
  Religious reading rooms                gross floor area
  Art galleries and museums              3 per each 1,000 square feet of gross
 Social service and fraternal           floor area
  associations
                                         1 per each 75 square feet of water
                                         surface, plus 1 per each 2 employees,
 Swimming clubs and pools               plus additional spaces as required for
                                         accessory uses in accordance with the
                                         provisions of this section
                                         11-13-4
 Athletic fields and playgrounds        As per village board recommendation
                                         based on type of use
                                         65 per 18 holes, 45 per 9 holes, plus
                                         1 per each employee, plus additional
 Golf courses but not including         spaces as required for accessory
  commercially operated driving range    retail in accordance with the
                                         provisions of this section
                                         11-13-4
 Riding academies and stables           2 per each stall
                                         1 per each 3 seats, plus additional
                                         spaces as required for accessory uses
 Theaters, indoor only                  in accordance with the provisions of
                                         this section
                                         11-13-4
  Recreational buildings and community   1 per each 3 employees, plus
 centers, noncommercial                 additional spaces as required by the
                                         village board for each specific use
 Stadiums and grandstands in athletic   1 per 4 seats, plus 1 per each 2
  fields                                 employees
  Driving ranges                         2 per court or tee, plus 1 per
  Handball clubs and courts              employee and additional spaces for
 Racquetball clubs and courts           accessory uses as required by this
  Tennis clubs and courts                section
                                         11-13-4
                                         5 per lane, plus additional spaces for
 Bowling alleys                         accessory uses as required by this
                                         section
                                         11-13-4
                                         Spaces equal to 30 percent of capacity
 Clubs, lodges with live entertainment  but not less than 10 per 1,000 square
  and dancing                            feet of gross floor area, plus 1 per
                                         each 2 employees
                                         Spaces equal to 30 percent of capacity
 Clubs, clubhouses and lodges           but not less than 5 per 1,000 square
  Convention halls and centers           feet of gross floor area, plus 1 per
                                         each 2 employees
 Drive-in theaters                      Spaces equal to capacity, plus 1 per
                                         each 2 employees
 Amusement arcades employing coin       10 per 1,000 square feet of gross
  operated games of skill                floor area
5 - Health/Medical:
 Convalescent centers, nursing homes    1 per 4 beds, plus 1 per employee
 Healthcare institutions for adults     1 per 2 beds, plus 1 per each 2
  and/or children                        employees
                                         1 per each 2 beds, plus 1 per each 2
 Hospitals or clinics                   employees, plus 1 per each 2 doctors
                                         on staff
  Chiropodist offices
  Chiropractor offices
  Dentist offices                        5 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
 Optometrist offices                    area
  Optician offices
  Osteopath offices
  Surgeon and/or physician offices
6 - Retail:
  Casket and casket supplies
  Frozen food locker establishments
  Furniture stores including
  upholstering conducted as part of the
  retail operation
  Hay, grain and seed stores
  Lumberyards
 Machinery sales establishments         3 per each 1,000 square feet of gross
  Mail order sales and warehousing       floor area
  Milk machine sales
  Monument sales and production
  Orthopedic and medical appliance, not
  including assembly or manufacturing
  Photographic studios including
  developing and printing as part of the
  retail business
  Commercial, agricultural implement and 1 per each 1,000 square feet of gross
 machinery sales, service               floor area, plus 1 per each 3,000
                                         square feet of outdoor sales area
                                         5 per each 1,000 square feet of gross
 Farm and garden supply stores          floor area, plus 1 per each 1,000
  Greenhouses, retail and wholesale      square feet of outdoor sales area,
                                         plus 1 per each 2 employees
  Drapery stores
  Fertilizer sales, bulk storage and
  mixing, anhydrous ammonia equipment    3.3 per 1,000 square feet of gross
 Furrier shops including the incidental floor area
  storage and conditioning of furs
  Tack shops
  Trading stamp stores
                                         5 per each 1,000 square feet of gross
 Mobile home dealers                    floor area, plus 1 per each 2,000
                                         square feet of outdoor sales area
                                         2.5 per each 1,000 square feet of
 Motor vehicle dealers                  gross floor area, plus 0.33 per each
  Motorcycle sales                       1,000 square feet of outdoor sales
                                         area
 Open sales lots                        3 per 1,000 square feet of outdoor
                                         sales area
  Laundries
  Packaging and crating establishments
  Restricted production and repair
 Printing and publishing establishments 0.75 per each employee, plus 1 per
  Stone or gravel quarries when          each vehicle owned, leased or rented
  crushing, grading, washing
  Storage yards for material or
  equipment sales
  Boat dealers
  Camper sales
  Nursery retail sales                   5 per 1,000 square feet per gross
 Sales yards, wholesale/retail for      floor area, plus 1 per 3,000 square
  agricultural products                  feet of outdoor sales area
  Snowmobile sales and service
  Trailer sales or rentals
  Tombstone and monument sales           2.5 per 1,000 square feet of gross
 Used car lots                          floor area, plus 0.33 per 1,000 square
                                         feet of outdoor display area
  Appliance stores
  Art and school supplies
  Automobile accessory stores
  Bakeries in which the manufacture of
  goods is limited to goods sold
  Bicycle stores - sales, retail/repair
  Book and stationery stores
  Butchers
  Candy and confectionery stores
  Catalog stores
  China and glassware stores
  Coin and stamp stores
  Dairy product stores
  Department stores
  Direct selling establishments
  where products are stored
  Drugstores, pharmacies
  Electrical shops and supply stores
  Floor covering, including rugs,
  linoleum and carpet stores
  Flower shops
  Gift shops                             5 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
 Groceries, food stores, supermarkets   area
  Hearing aid stores
  Hobby shops
  Ice cream stores
  Leather goods and luggage shops
  Millinery
  Music stores
  Office supply stores
  Package liquor stores
  Paint, hardware, wallpaper stores
  Pet stores
  Picture framing conducted for retail
  trade
  Roadside stands
  Sewing machine sales and service
  Shoe stores
  Sporting goods stores
  Swimming pool sales and service
  Tile stores (wall and floor)
  Tire, battery and accessory dealer
  Toy stores
  Variety and notion stores
  Video stores
 Automobile service stations, full or   2 per each service bay, plus 1 per
  self- serve with repair garages        each employee, plus 1 per each vehicle
                                         1 per each service bay, plus 1 per
                                         each employee, plus 5 per 1,000 square
 Automobile service stations, self-     feet of gross floor area if retail
  serve with food mart                   only, or 6 per 1,000 square feet of
                                         gross floor area if food is prepared
                                         on the premises
                                         1 per each 5 seats but not less than
 Auction rooms                          10 per 1,000 square feet of gross
                                         floor area
 Bottled gas dealers                    2 per each 3 employees
  Building machine stores
  Building material sales
 Building services and supplies not     4 per each 1,000 square feet of gross
  including outside storage              floor area
  Catering establishments
  Clothing and costume rental stores
                                         1 per each 2 employees, plus 1 per 80
 Animal feed, storage, preparation,     square feet of gross floor area for
  grinding and mixing, wholesale         inside sales and 1 per 1,000 square
                                         feet of outdoor sales area
7 - Service:
 Animal kennels and pounds              3.3 per 1,000 square feet of gross
                                         floor area
                                         1 per room, plus 1 per each 2
                                         employees, plus additional spaces as
 Hotels                                 required for accessory uses in
  Motels                                 accordance with the provisions of this
                                         section
                                         11-13-4
  Radio and television broadcasting
 studios                                4 per each 1,000 square feet of gross
  Shoe repair shops                      floor area
  Transit and transportation facilities
 Radio and television towers,           As per village board recommendation
  commercial
                                         1 per each 3 employees, plus
 Public utility and public service uses additional spaces as required by the
                                         village board
  Undertaking establishments and funeral 10 per parlor, plus 1 per each
 parlors                                employee, plus 1 per each vehicle
                                         owned, leased or rented
                                         5 per each 1,000 square feet of gross
 Recreational vehicle sales or rentals  floor area, plus 1 per each 3,000
                                         square feet of outdoor sales area
                                         4 per each doctor, based on the
                                         maximum number on duty, plus 1 per
 Veterinary clinics, animal hospitals   other employees but not less than 1
                                         per 250 square feet of gross floor
                                         area
 Barbershops                            2 per each chair, plus 1 per each
  Salons                                 employee
  Accounting, auditing, bookkeeping
  Art and industrial designers
  Attorney and law offices               3 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
  Engineering and architectural firms    area unless the building or use is
 Laboratories, medical and dental       5,000 square feet or less in area,
  Land surveyors                         then 5 spaces per 1,000 square feet of
  Landscape architectural services       gross floor area shall apply
  Political organization offices
  Professional consultants
  Scientific research agencies
  Better business bureau
  Blueprint and photocopy
  Business and management consultant
  Chamber of commerce
  Charitable and civic organizations
  Commercial blacksmith or welding
  Credit agencies
  Detective agencies
  Exterminating services
  Furniture repair and upholstery stores
  General minor repair or fix it shops
  Insurance agencies
  Investment companies
  Labor unions and organizations
  Loan companies
  Locksmiths                             3 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
 Mail order service shops               area
  Merchant associations
  News syndicates
  Newspaper offices, not including
  printing
  Offices, business and professional
  Professional membership associations
  Real estate boards
  Real estate offices
  Refrigeration shops
  Secretarial services
  Security and commodity brokers
  Sign contractors, no outside storage
  Tailors, hat and clothes repair or
  dressmaker shops
  Taxidermists
  Trade associations
                                         1 per each 2 employees, plus stacking
 Automobile car washes, automatic       spaces equal to 5 times the capacity
                                         of the washing bays
                                         1 per each 2 employees, plus 1 per
                                         each manager, plus 2 per each washing
 Automobile car washes, manual          bay, 1 of which shall be located
                                         directly in front of and 1 directly in
                                         back of each car wash bay
 Automobile repair garages              1 per each employee, plus 2 per each
                                         service bay
 Cartage and express establishments,    0.75 per employee, plus 1 per vehicle
  not including motor freight            owned, rented or leased
  Currency exchanges
  Dry cleaning, employing not more than
  5 persons and where equipment does not
  exceed units of 30 pounds' capacity
  Employment agencies
  Equipment and appliance repair         5 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
 Equipment rental and leasing services  area
  Interior decorating studios
  Lawn mower repair shops
  Recording studios
  Ticket agencies (amusement)
  Travel bureaus and transportation
  ticket offices
                                         3.3 per 1,000 square feet of gross
 Financial institutions                 floor area, plus 6 stacking spaces per
                                         teller per drive-in, plus 1 per each 2
                                         employees
  Ambulance service
  Contractor and construction offices
  Furnace supply and service stores      0.5 per each employee, plus 1 per each
 Sewer cleaning and rodding service     vehicle owned, leased or rented
  Testing laboratories
  Water softener services
  Window cleaning firms
 Commercial grain elevators and storage 1 per each 2 employees
8 - Restaurant/Tavern:
                                         6 per 1,000 square feet of gross
                                         leasable area. The space may not
 Carry out restaurants                  contain more than 1 bench, 48 inches
                                         in length, or seats for 2 people to
                                         wait
                                         13 per 1,000 gross square feet for all
 Dine in/carry out restaurants, without establishments up to 2,000 square feet
  waitstaff                              in area, plus 15 per 1,000 square feet
                                         of area above 2,000 square feet
                                         13 per 1,000 gross square feet,
                                         inclusive, of all outdoor space
                                         devoted to outdoor dining, plus 1 for
 Sit down restaurants, with waitstaff   each of the persons equating to 30
                                         percent of the rated capacity of any
                                         lounge area, sports bar area, dancing
                                         area, or other entertainment area
                                         included in the establishment
9 - Public:
  Airports
 Police stations                        As per village board recommendation
  Water filtration plants, sewage
  treatment plants, pumping stations
 Fire stations                          1 per each 2 employees
  Post offices and post office           4 per each 1,000 square feet of gross
 substations                            floor area, plus 1 per each 3
                                         employees
10 - Manufacturing And Assembly:
                                         1 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor
 Light industrial                       area, or 1 per 1.25 employees
                                         (whichever is greater)
  Contractor shops and storage           1 per 2,000 square feet of gross floor
 Warehouse                              area, or 1 per 1.25 employees
                                         (whichever is greater)
11 - Other Uses:
  Parking requirement for uses not       As per the village board based upon
 listed                                 recommendations of the planning and
                                         zoning commission
 
(Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990; amd. Ord. 2007-20, 5-24-2007; 2012 Code; Ord. 2014-48,
10-27-2014)
11-13-5: OFF STREET LOADING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definitions: The following terms, when used in this section, shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this subsection:
   LOADING BERTH OR SPACE: A space, accessible from a street, alley or way, in
a building or on a lot, for the use of vehicles while loading or unloading
merchandise or materials.
LOADING FACILITY: An area, accessible from a street, alley or way, in a
building or on a lot, which contains loading berths or spaces, for the use of
vehicles while loading or unloading merchandise or materials. (Ord. 90-57, 10-
8-1990)
   B.   Berths Required: Every building which requires the receipt or
distribution of materials or merchandise by trucks or similar vehicles, and
which has a gross floor area of five thousand (5,000) square feet or more,
shall be required to have off street loading berths as provided by this
chapter.
   C.   Location: All required off street loading facilities which serve a
building, structure, or use of land erected, established, altered, enlarged or
intensified after the effective date hereof shall be located on the same lot as
the building, structure or use of land to be served unless established in
accordance with the following provisions:
      1.   Central Loading Facilities: Central loading facilities which serve
more than one lot may be established in accordance with the following
requirements:
         a.   Each lot to be served shall have direct access to the central
loading facility without crossing streets or alleys;
         b.   The total number of off street loading berths provided is not
less than the sum of the separate requirements for each such use as specified
in section
11-13-5-1 of this chapter; and
         c.   Each lot to be served shall be no more than three hundred feet
(300'), including streets, from the central loading facility. (Ord. 90-59, 10-
8-1990)
      2.   Control Of Central Loading Facilities: Whenever the required off
street loading facilities are collectively provided in central loading
facilities, written covenants and easements running with the land assuring the
retention, maintenance, and use of said central loading facilities shall be
executed by the parties concerned. Such covenants and easements shall be
reviewed by the Village Engineer and the Village Attorney, approved as to
content and form by the Village Board of Trustees and filed in the Office of
the County Recorder of Deeds. (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990; amd. 2012 Code; Ord.
2017-42, 11-13-2017)
   D.   Yards:
      1.   Compliance Required: Off street loading facilities located in a
building or structure shall comply with the yard requirements of the zoning
district in which said facilities are located or the requirements set forth in
subsection D2 of this section, whichever is more restrictive.
      2.   Unenclosed Loading Facilities: Unenclosed off street loading
facilities may be located in any yard; provided, however, that no loading
facilities shall be permitted in the following setbacks:
         a.   A required front yard;
         b.   A thirty foot (30') setback along a side lot line that is
adjacent to a roadway;
         c.   A ten foot (10') setback along interior sides of a property line;
         d.   Minimum rear yards; and
         e.   Twenty feet (20') along interior side lot lines that separate
different districts or land uses.
      3.   Accessory Building Or Structure:
         a.   If an off street loading facility has an attendant shelter
building or structure, said building or structure shall conform with all yard
requirements for the zoning district in which it is located. (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-
1990)
         b.   An accessory building to a loading facility shall comply with the
provisions contained in section
11-5-9 of this title regulating accessory structures and uses. (Ord. 90-59, 10-
8-1990; amd. Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013)
   E.   Access:
      1.   All off street loading facilities shall open directly upon an aisle
or driveway not less than twelve feet (12') wide.
      2.   No loading facility shall be located within twenty five feet (25')
of the point of intersection of any two (2) streets. (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990)
      3.   Proposed access to a loading berth from a street, alley, or service
drive shall be subject to the review and approval of the Village Planner and
the Village Engineer. (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-
13-2017)
   F.   Computation Of Number Of Spaces:
      1.   The total number of off street loading spaces required for any
building, structure or use shall be based upon specifications contained in
section
11-13-5-1 of this chapter.
      2.   If, in determining the number of off street loading berths required,
the computation results in a requirement of a fractional berth, any fraction of
less than one-half (1/2) may be disregarded, while a fraction of one-half (1/2)
or more shall be counted as one loading berth. (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990)
      3.   If a particular use is not listed in section
11-13-5-1 of this chapter, the Village Engineer shall determine the loading
berth requirements of said use by assigning the same loading facility
requirements as another use which is deemed to be similar in nature to, and
compatible with, said unlisted use. (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990; amd. 2012 Code;
Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
   G.   Utilization Of Facilities: Space allocated to any off street loading
facility shall not, while so allocated, be used to satisfy any off street
parking requirements.
   H.   Size And Configuration:
      1.   A required off street loading berth shall be at least ten feet (10')
in width by at least fifty feet (50') in length, exclusive of aisle and
maneuvering space.
      2.   All off street loading berths shall have a vertical clearance of at
least fifteen feet (15').
   I.   Design And Maintenance: The following shall apply to the design and
maintenance of all off street loading facilities:
      1.   Surfacing:
         a.   All open off street loading berths shall be improved with a
compacted, crushed aggregate base not less than eight inches (8") thick and
shall be surfaced with asphaltic concrete not less than two inches (2") thick.
(Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990)
         b.   Alternative materials which provide equivalent strength may be
used subject to approval by the Village Engineer.
      2.   Curbing: All loading facilities shall be improved with concrete
curbing, as approved by the Village Engineer. (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990; amd. 2012
Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
      3.   Screening And Landscaping:
         a.   All unenclosed off street loading berths which are located
adjacent to or across the street from a residential or an institutional use
shall be effectively screened from view of adjacent residential or
institutional properties.
         b.   Required screening may be accomplished in accordance with
criteria set forth in subsection 11-13-4K5a of this chapter.
         c.   A planting strip, not less than ten feet (10') wide, shall be
provided along that portion of an off street loading facility that is adjacent
to any public or private street to separate and screen the loading areas from
the adjacent streets.
         d.   A landscaped buffer strip shall be provided and maintained at a
width of not less than ten feet (10') between an off street loading facility
and the property line of adjoining property.
         e.   Landscaping in perimeter and buffer yards shall include, at a
minimum, deciduous street trees approved by the Village Planner, spaced not
less than forty feet (40') on center, and shall comply with minimum sizes
specified under subsection 11-13-4K5e of this chapter.
         f.   All landscaping shall be permanently maintained in good condition
with at least the same quality of landscaping as initially installed. (Ord. 90-
59, 10-8-1990)
         g.   Proposed landscaping of off street loading facilities shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Village Planner and the Village
Engineer. (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
      4.   Lighting:
         a.   Lighting shall be provided to illuminate any off street loading
facility to be used at night.
         b.   Lighting provided shall be maintained, arranged and installed to
deflect, shade and focus lights away from adjacent properties. (Ord. 90-59, 10-
8-1990)
         c.   Lighting plans shall be subject to the review and approval of the
Village Planner, the Village Engineer and the Chief of Police. (Ord. 90-59, 10-
8-1990; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
      5.   Accessory Signs: Accessory signs for loading facilities shall be
permitted in accordance with the provisions specified in subsection 11-14-9B of
this title. (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990)
   J.   Minimum Loading Facilities:
      1.   Buildings, structures, or parcels of land which require off street
loading facilities, but which have less area than the minimum prescribed for
such required facilities, shall be provided with adequate loading facilities,
accessible by motor vehicle off any adjacent alley or service drive on the same
lot, if recommended by the Planning and Zoning Commission and approved by the
Village Board of Trustees. (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-
2014)
      2.   The loading zone shall be not less than nine feet by eighteen feet
(9' x 18') in size, and shall be exclusive of required parking spaces or drive
aisles. The loading zone shall be signed and striped to discourage automobile
parking.
   K.   Repair And Storage: Storage of any kind or motor vehicle repair work or
service of any kind shall not be permitted within any required loading berth.
(Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990)
11-13-5-1: NUMBER OF LOADING SPACES REQUIRED:
Loading Category Number And Type Of Use Number Of Loading Spaces Required
Loading Category Number And Type Of Use Number Of Loading Spaces Required
1 - Residential:
                                        1 per each 30,000 to 200,000 square
 Multiple-family dwellings             feet, plus 1 per each additional
                                        200,000 square feet or fraction thereof
2 - Schools:
  Business schools
  Colleges                              1 per each 10,000 to 100,000 square
 Trade schools                         feet, plus 1 per each additional
  Universities                          100,000 square feet or fraction thereof
  Vocational schools
3 - Recreational/Civic/Institutional:
  Auditoriums
  Bowling alleys                        1 per each 10,000 to 100,000 square
 Civic buildings                       feet, plus 1 per each additional
  Private clubs and lodges              100,000 square feet or fraction thereof
  Public administration buildings
                                        1 per each 8,000 to 25,000 square feet,
                                        plus 1 per each additional 50,000
                                        square feet or fraction thereof, plus
 Theaters                              additional berths for accessory uses as
                                        required by the provisions of this
                                        section
                                        11-13-5
4 - Health/Medical:
  Convalescent homes                    1 per each 30,000 to 200,000 square
 Nursing homes                         feet, plus 1 per each additional
                                        200,000 square feet or fraction thereof
  Hospitals                             1 per each 10,000 to 100,000 square
 Sanatoriums and other similar         feet, plus 1 per each additional
  institutional uses                    100,000 square feet or fraction thereof
5 - Retail:
                                        1 per each 5,000 to 10,000 square feet;
  All retail stores                     2 per each 10,000 to 25,000 square
 Wholesale stores                      feet; 3 per each 25,000 to 40,000
                                        square feet; 4 per each 40,000 to
                                        100,000 square feet or fraction thereof
6 - Service:
  Cartage and express facilities        1 per each 7,000 to 40,000 square feet;
 Radio stations or studios             2 per each 40,000 to 100,000 square
  Recording or sound studios            feet, plus 1 per additional 100,000
  Television stations or studios        square feet
  Animal hospitals
  Banks
  Blueprinting establishments           1 per each 10,000 to 100,000 square
 Dry cleaning establishments           feet, plus 1 per each additional
  Financial institutions                100,000 square feet or fraction thereof
  Motels
  Kennels
                                        1 per each 5,000 to 10,000 square feet;
                                        2 per each 10,000 to 25,000 square
 All other service uses                feet; 3 per each 25,000 to 40,000
                                        square feet; 4 per each 40,000 to
                                        100,000 square feet
7 - Restaurant/Tavern:
                                        1 per each 5,000 to 10,000 square feet;
                                        2 per each 10,000 to 25,000 square
  Establishments handling the           feet; 3 per each 25,000 to 40,000
 consumption of food on the premises   square feet; 4 per each 40,000 to
                                        100,000 square feet, plus 1 additional
                                        per each 100,000 square feet or
                                        fraction thereof
8 - Public:
                                        1 per each 7,000 to 40,000 square feet,
 Railroad passenger terminals          plus 1 per additional 100,000 square
  Utility facilities, public or private feet for buildings over 40,000 square
                                        feet
                                        1 per each 7,000 to 40,000 square feet;
                                        2 per each 40,000 to 100,000 square
 Airports                              feet, plus 1 per each additional
                                        100,000 square feet for buildings over
                                        40,000 square feet
9 - Manufacturing:
  Assembly establishments               1 per each 5,000 to 40,000 square feet;
  Disassembly establishments            2 per each 40,000 to 100,000 square
 Fabricating establishments            feet, plus 1 additional per each
  Manufacturing establishments          100,000 square feet for buildings over
  Warehousing establishments            40,000 square feet
  Cleaning establishments               1 per each 5,000 to 40,000 square feet,
 Repair establishments                 plus 1 per each additional 40,000
  Servicing establishments              square feet or fraction thereof
  Testing establishments
10 - Other Uses:
 Other uses                            As per village board based on
                                        requirements for most similar use
 
(Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990; amd. 2012 Code)
11-13-6: AUTHORIZED VARIATIONS:
   A.   The planning and zoning commission shall decide upon authorized
variations of the provisions of this chapter and shall grant them only in the
specific instances where there are demonstrated practical difficulties or
particular hardships in implementing the regulations of this chapter. (Ord. 90-
59, 10-8-1990; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
   B.   Any individual, firm, or corporation applying for a variation shall be
subject to the procedures contained in section
11-3-6 of this title. (Ord. 90-59, 10-8-1990)
11-13-7: EFFECT ON EXISTING DEVELOPMENTS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not supersede those requirements
established by development ordinances approved for specific projects or planned
developments during site plan review, zoning or annexation procedures. (Ord.
90-59, 10-8-1990)
CHAPTER 14
SIGNS
SECTION:
11-14-1: Intent
11-14-2: Application, Interpretation And Compliance
11-14-3: Definitions
11-14-4: Prohibited Signs
11-14-5: Authorization By Property Owner
11-14-6: Signs Not Requiring Permit
11-14-7: Permit Requirements
11-14-8: General Sign Regulations
11-14-9: Signs In All Districts
11-14-10: Signs In Residence Districts (R-1, R-2, R-2A, R-2B, R-2C, R-3, R-4,
R-5)
11-14-11: Signs In Business Districts (B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4) And For Commercial
Uses In Planned Unit Development Districts Of 250 Acres Or More
11-14-12: Signs In O-D Office Districts
11-14-13: Signs In R-R Hotel-Motel Resort And Recreational Districts
11-14-14: Signs In M-1 Manufacturing Districts
11-14-15: Inspections
11-14-16: Maintenance Requirements
11-14-17: Diagrams
11-14-1: INTENT:
It is the intent of this chapter to prohibit all off site advertising of any
kind whatsoever except where such off site advertising is specifically
permitted under the terms of the Highway Advertising Control Act of 1971 1 .
(Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992; amd. 2012 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 440/1 et seq.
11-14-2: APPLICATION, INTERPRETATION AND COMPLIANCE:
   A.   The regulations set forth in this chapter shall apply to and govern
signs in all zoning districts in the Village. No sign shall be erected,
repaired, altered, changed, relocated or maintained except in conformance with
the regulations for the district in which it is located, unless the sign is
otherwise specifically regulated by special use provision or other provisions
set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992)
   B.   When there is any ambiguity or dispute concerning the interpretation of
this chapter, the interpretation of the Building Commissioner shall prevail,
subject to appeal as provided in the ordinances of the Village. (Ord. 92-38, 6-
22-1992; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
11-14-3: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following words, terms and phrases shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
ABANDONED SIGN: A sign which no longer directs attention to or advertises any
person, business, lessor, owner, product, idea, place, activity, institution or
service which is conducted or available on the premises.
ADVERTISING MESSAGE: That copy on a sign describing products or services being
offered or available to the public.
AREA OF SIGN: The gross surface area within a single continuous perimeter
composed of a single rectangle enclosing the extreme limits of characters,
lettering, illustrations, ornamentations, or other figures, together with any
material, or color forming an integral part of the display or to differentiate
the sign from the background to which it is placed. Structural supports bearing
no sign copy shall not be included in gross surface area; however, if any
portion of the required support becomes enclosed for decorative or
architectural purposes, that portion will be included in the total gross
surface area of the sign. For computing the area of any sign which consists of
individual letters or separate graphic elements, the area shall be deemed to be
the area of the smallest rectangular figure which can encompass all of the
letters or elements.
BANNER: A sign made of paper, plastic, or fabric of any kind which is intended
to be hung either with or without a frame, or with or without applied
characters, letters, illustrations, or ornamentations, excluding national,
State or governmental subdivision flags.
BEACON: A stationary or revolving light (also known as "searchlight") which
flashes or projects illumination, single color or multicolored, in any manner
which is intended to attract or divert attention. The term is not intended,
however, to include any kind of lighting device which is required or necessary
under the safety regulations described by the Federal Aviation Agency or
similar agencies.
BILLBOARD: A nonpoint of sale sign which advertises a business service,
organization, event, person, place, or thing, unless such sign is more
specifically defined herein.
BOX SIGN: A type of wall sign in which copy and/or graphics are either painted,
routed, or embossed on an acrylic or other translucent surface, and then
affixed to a metal or fiberglass frame which is fabricated around lighting
elements and other electrical components required for internal illumination of
the copy. The entire "box sign", comprised of copy, frame and electrical
components, is mounted directly to a building or structure.
BUILDING COMMISSIONER: The Building Commissioner, or any deputy thereof; or the
duly appointed building and zoning official, or any deputy thereof, of the
Village of Bloomingdale.
BUILDING FACE OR WALL: All window and wall area of a building in one plane or
elevation.
BUILDING FRONTAGE: The linear length of a building facing the right-of-way.
BUSINESS FRONTAGE: The frontage of a business establishment on a lot facing a
public right-of-way or privately owned circulation road which functions mainly
as a collector and distributor of customer traffic, or a customer parking lot
which serves a commercial establishment.
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN: A sign or portion thereof with characters, letters, or
numerals that can be changed or rearranged manually, without altering the face
or the surface of the sign.
DECORATIVE LIGHTING: Any type of lighting element applied to the interior or
exterior of a window or door, or around the perimeter of a window or door,
which is intended to be viewed from the exterior of the building or structure.
DIRECTIONAL/INSTRUCTIONAL SIGN: A sign of noncommercial nature which directs
the reader to public parks, buildings, historical structures or areas, schools
and other public institutions, or provides information concerning traffic
circulation or parking.
DISTRICTS: References to residential, business and manufacturing districts
shall be synonymous with those contained in this title.
FACADE AREA: Total area of a building including the building face and roof as
measured on a vertical plane established at the exterior wall of the building
facing the right-of-way.
FRONTAGE: The length of the property line of any one parcel parallel to and
along each right-of-way it borders.
GRAND OPENINGS: Shall be limited to change in ownership, use or tenant, or
remodeling which requires closing of a business to the general public.
HEIGHT OF SIGN: The vertical distance measured from the adjacent street grade
or upper surface or the nearest street curb other than an elevated roadway,
which vertical distance shall permit the greatest height to the highest point
of said sign.
LETTERS AND DECORATIONS: That part of a sign pertaining to the letters,
illustrations, symbols, figures, insignia and other devices employed to express
and illustrate the message of the sign.
LOCATION: A lot, premises, building, wall or any place whatsoever upon which a
sign is erected, constructed or maintained.
LOT: An area of land of sufficient size to meet zoning requirements for a
permitted or special use. Such lot shall have frontage on an improved public
street or on an approved private street and may consist of:
   A.   A single lot of record; or
   B.   A portion of a lot of record; or
   C.   A combination of complete lots of record; of complete lots of record
and portions of lots of record; or of portions of lots of record.
LOT, CORNER: A lot whose frontage is adjacent to two (2) or more streets.
NONCONFORMING SIGN (LEGAL): A. A sign which was lawfully erected and maintained
prior to the effective date hereof, and any amendments hereto, and which fails
to conform to all applicable regulations and restrictions contained in this
chapter; or
   B.   A nonconforming sign for which a permit has been issued.
OCCUPANT: Any person who:
   A.   Owns, rents or leases; and
   B.   Occupies a property or building for the purpose of:
      1.   Residing in; and/or
      2.   Carrying on a business, trade or profession thereon or therein.
OWNER: Any person, group of persons, partnership, corporation or other legal
entity holding legal or equitable title to real estate located within the
village of Bloomingdale including, but not limited to, contract purchasers and
all of the beneficiaries under a land trust.
PENNANT: Any lightweight plastic, fabric, or other materials, whether or not
containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire, or string,
usually in a series, designed to move in the wind.
PUBLIC AREA: A. The right of way of any area owned by the state of Illinois,
any county, or the village of Bloomingdale, and which is used for a highway,
street, road or sidewalk; or
   B.   The right of way of any area dedicated for highway, street or road
purposes; or
   C.   Any automobile parking area owned by or subject to a lease agreement
with the village of Bloomingdale.
REVERSE COPY LETTERS: Illuminated translucent letters against a nonilluminated
opaque background.
ROOFLINE: The top edge of the roof or the top of the parapet of the building;
whatever forms the top line of the building silhouette.
SETBACK: A. The setback of a sign shall be defined as the shortest horizontal
distance between a property line and the closest edge of a sign, including the
structure and base.
   B.   Where a property line extends into a street right of way, the setback
of a sign shall be the shortest horizontal distance between the closest edge of
a sign, including the structure and base, and the back of the curb of the
adjacent street.
   C.   Where a sign is located along an access drive, the setback of a sign
shall be the shortest horizontal distance between the closest edge of a sign,
including the structure and base, and the back of the curb of the adjacent
access drive.
SIGN: A. Any name, identification, description, advertisement, display or
illustration which is affixed to or painted or represented directly upon a
building, structure or other outdoor surface or piece of land; and which
directs attention to an object, idea, product, philosophy, place, activity,
person, institution, service organization or business; and which is located, on
a permanent or temporary basis, on the premises at or on which the object,
idea, product, philosophy, place, activity, person, institution, service
organization or business is located, offered or sold.
   B.   The term "sign" shall not refer to any display or official court or
public notices, nor shall it include the emblem or insignia of a nation,
political unit, school or religious group. The term "sign" shall not include
any name, identification, description, advertisement, display or illustration
located completely within an enclosed building or structure unless the content
thereof shall be exposed to view from the outside of the building.
   C.   For the purpose of this chapter, a building, or portion of a building,
or any item or material (opaque, transparent, colored or illuminated)
physically attached to the exterior or interior of a building which departs
from standard architectural treatment in an attempt to attract attention to the
premises by reason of color scheme and/or illumination, or part of a building
or facade not required structurally or for maintenance, and which is intended
to direct attention to products, goods, services, events or entertainment,
shall be considered a "sign" and be subject to all pertinent regulations,
including sign area, as defined by this chapter.
   D.   The term "sign" shall include, but not be limited to, the following
categories, types and styles of signs:
      1.   Content:
         a.   Business Identification Sign: A sign containing information
limited to the name of the business as it appears on the records of the
Illinois department of revenue, or the common name of the business as it
identifies itself to the general public. Website addresses and telephone
numbers will not be permitted, with the exception that they may be allowed in
the old town preservation district. Where allowed by sign guidelines that are
specific to unified shopping centers or planned developments, a logo or
trademark may substitute for one of the words, and it shall be approximate in
size to one of the letter characters in the sign.
         b.   Community Identification Sign: A sign incorporating information
referring exclusively to service clubs, churches, not for profit groups,
community slogans, directional information to public facilities or historic
markers, and/or government statistics.
         c.   Building Identification Sign: A sign indicating the name or
trademark of a building or its occupants, the name of the building's management
entity, and the telephone number of the establishment or the business directory
listing of the building on which the sign is located. Street numbers, by
themselves, do not constitute an identification sign.
         d.   Nameplate: A nonilluminated sign identifying only the name and
occupation of the occupant, or the name of the premises, on which the sign is
located.
         e.   Public Service Information Sign: A sign intended primarily to
promote items of general interest to the community including, but not limited
to, items such as time, temperature, date, atmospheric conditions, news and/or
traffic control.
         f.   Residential Real Estate Sign: A freestanding sign used to
advertise the availability of the property upon which it is placed as being for
sale, lease or rent.
         g.   Commercial Real Estate Sign: A freestanding sign of a commercial
nature which advertises the sale, lease or rental of the premises, parcel,
structure, or establishment, or a portion thereof, on which such sign is
located.
         h.   Awning Or Canopy Sign: A sign that is mounted or painted on or
attached to an awning or canopy that is otherwise permitted by this code. No
such sign shall project above, below, or beyond the physical dimensions of such
awning or canopy. An "awning valance" or "canopy valance" shall be defined as
the material projecting below the lowest edge of the awning or canopy to which
it is attached. Awning and canopy signs are permitted in all business districts
and the old town district, except as provided in this section. All awning and
canopy signage (including valance signage) are subject to the following:
            (1)   All awnings, canopies and valances must be opaque;
            (2)   No signage is permitted on the side of any awning;
            (3)   Signage on awnings and canopies shall be limited to logos
and/or graphics;
            (4)   Signage and awning or canopy valances shall be limited to
text only. Such text shall be limited to the business name as defined in this
section, goods, products or services provided by the business.
            (5)   All awnings, with the exception of any proposed signage, must
be solid in color and consist of the standard color palette including black,
maroon, forest green or navy. Awnings in old town may, upon the review and
approval of the building commissioner, be permitted to install an alternate
color or pattern, provided it conforms to the concept, purpose and intent of
the district.
            (6)   No websites or phone numbers shall be permitted on any
portion of an awning or canopy.
            (7)   Total for all awning, canopy and valance signage, shall count
toward and may not exceed the total wall sign area otherwise permitted in this
section.
      2.   Illumination And Movement:
         a.   Animated Sign: A sign which includes or incorporates action or
movement.
         b.   Changeable Copy Sign: A sign or portion thereof with characters,
letters, or numerals that can be changed or rearranged manually, without
altering the face or the surface of the sign.
         c.   Changing Sign (Automatic): A sign such as electronically
controlled public service time, temperature and date sign message center or
readerboard, where different copy changes are shown on the same lamp bank.
         d.   Electrical Sign: A sign containing electrical wiring which is
attached or intended to be attached to an electrical energy source.
         e.   Illuminated Sign: A sign in which the source of illumination is a
fundamental or integral part of the sign.
         f.   Indirectly Illuminated Sign: A sign which reflects light from a
source intentionally directed thereon.
         g.   Nonilluminated Sign: A sign which has no direct or indirect
source of light.
      3.   Materials And Placement:
         a.   Awning: A shelter supported entirely from the exterior wall of a
building and composed of nonrigid materials except for the supporting
framework. When an awning contains, embodies or displays any verbiage,
trademark, logo or similar representation, these elements shall constitute a
"sign".
         b.   Banner Sign: A temporary sign composed of lightweight material,
secured or mounted so as to allow movement of the sign such as is caused by
movement of the atmosphere. A banner sign shall include any banner with or
without lettering, figures or symbols and constructed of cloth, canvas, light
fabric, cardboard, wallboard, or other light material, with or without frames.
         c.   Building Sign: A sign attached to or supported by the exterior of
any part of a building, except its roof, but which does not project over a
street, alley or public way.
         d.   Canopy: A structure, other than an awning, made of cloth, metal
or other materials with frames affixed to a building and carried by a frame
which is supported by the ground. When a canopy contains, embodies or displays
any verbiage, trademark, logo or similar representation, those elements
constitute a sign.
         e.   Freestanding Sign: A sign which is not attached to any building
or structure, but is secured to the ground.
         f.   Portable Sign: Any sign on a trailer with or without wheels, but
capable of being moved and not permanently attached to the ground or building.
         g.   Roof Sign: A sign erected and maintained upon or over the roof of
any building, with the principal support on the roof structure. A sign which is
attached to a mansard roof and protrudes wholly or partially above the roofline
of the building or structure to which the mansard roof is attached shall be
considered a roof sign.
         h.   Wall Sign: A sign which is placed against a building or other
structure and which is attached to the exterior front, rear or side wall of a
building. The term "wall sign" shall include a sign attached to a mansard roof
and not protruding, wholly or partially, above the lowest point of the roof of
the building or structure to which the mansard roof is attached.
         i.   Window Sign: A sign that is posted on the interior or exterior of
a window of a building or structure which is intended to be read from the
exterior of the building or structure.
SIGN STRUCTURE: Any structure which supports, has supported, or is capable of
supporting a sign.
SITE PLAN: The development plan for one or more lots on which is shown, and
dimensioned to scale, the existing and proposed condition of the lot.
STRUCTURAL ELEMENTS: The supports, uprights, bracing and framework of a sign.
STRUCTURAL TRIM: The molding, battens, cappings, nailing strips, latticing and
platforms which are attached to a sign structure.
UNLAWFUL SIGN: A sign which contravenes the terms of this chapter or which the
Building Commissioner has declared to be unlawful because it poses a danger to
public safety by reason of dilapidation or abandonment; a nonconforming sign
for which any permit required under any previous ordinance was not obtained.
VILLAGE: That area contained within the corporate limits of the Village of
Bloomingdale. (Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992; amd. Ord. 2008-14, 3-24-2008; 2012 Code;
Ord. 2012-27, 6-11-2012; Ord. 2017-08, 3-13-2017; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
11-14-4: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
Any sign not specifically permitted under the terms of this chapter or of the
Highway Advertising Control Act of 1971 1 , shall be prohibited. Such signs
include, but are not limited to:
   A.   Inflatable signs and tethered balloons.
   B.   Pennants.
   C.   Strings of lights, except those exempt by the terms of this chapter
(see section
11-14-3 of this chapter, definition of "decorative lighting").
   D.   Beacons, except as permitted under subsection
11-14-11D of this chapter.
   E.   Box signs.
   F.   Off-site signage except for allowances provided for in Section
11-5-9B(8) and
11-14-8(S) of this code. (Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2021-37,
9-27-2021)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 440/1 et seq.
11-14-5: AUTHORIZATION BY PROPERTY OWNER:
Except as provided in section
11-14-6 of this chapter, no person shall erect, alter, or relocate any sign
within the Village without first obtaining the express consent of the owner of
the land upon which the sign shall be erected, altered or relocated, in
addition to obtaining a sign permit from the Building Commissioner and making
payment therefor. (Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-
2017)
11-14-6: SIGNS NOT REQUIRING PERMIT:
No permits shall be required for the following signs when erected or displayed
as set forth below and in accordance with all other requirements of the zoning
district in which they are located. Except as noted, such signs shall not be
illuminated and shall not be placed in or otherwise erected upon any public
right-of-way, nor be attached to any building or structure thereon.
   A.   Interior Signs: Any sign which is completely within an enclosed
building and which sign is not intended to be visible from outside the
building.
   B.   Monuments And Markers: Tablets, grave markers, headstones, statuary, or
remembrances of persons or events which are noncommercial in nature.
   C.   Decorations And Displays: Noncommercial decorations or displays
celebrating the occasion of legal or religious holidays and which are erected
and/or maintained for a period of less than forty five (45) days. Such
decorations or displays may be illuminated.
   D.   Vehicular Signs: Signs on a truck, bus, trailer or other vehicle while
such vehicle is operated in the normal course of a business which is not
primarily the display of such signs.
   E.   Residential Real Estate Signs: Freestanding signs which are used to
offer for sale, lease or rent the property upon which the sign is placed.
   F.   No Trespassing And No Dumping Signs: No trespassing or no dumping signs
not exceeding two (2) square feet in area per sign and not exceeding four (4)
signs in number per acre. (Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992)
   G.   Political Signs:
      1.   Signs or posters announcing or describing candidates seeking public
political office, announcing or describing political issues and data pertinent
thereto.
      2.   Such signs shall contain a sign surface area not to exceed twenty
four (24) square feet.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to post any
political sign on any public property; and it shall be unlawful to post any
political sign on any property without the written consent of the owner
thereof. (Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013)
   H.   Garage And Rummage Sale Signs: Temporary signs announcing the sale of
new or used personal property from a private residence where the sale activity
is occasional and infrequent and not associated with a permanent commercial
establishment.
   I.   Employment Or Help Wanted Signs: Employment or help wanted signs which
are placed in the window of the establishment which intends to employ the
personnel described in the sign and which is located in any commercial, office
or industrial district.
      1.   Employment or help wanted signs shall, in the aggregate, not exceed
six (6) square feet for any one establishment.
      2.   No more than two (2) such signs shall be displayed for any one
establishment.
   J.   Window Signs: Window signs describing or advertising a retail sale
promotion or special sale or event shall be subject to the regulations
contained in subsection 11-14-11C of this chapter. (Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992; amd.
Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013)
11-14-7: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A. Permit Required: Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall
be unlawful for any person to erect, reerect, alter, relocate, affix or paint
any sign, perform routine maintenance, change lettering, or change printed copy
or paint on an existing sign without first having obtained a sign permit. Where
electrical and/or construction permits are required in connection with
erecting, reerecting, relocating, altering, changing, affixing or painting a
sign, these shall be obtained at the same time as the sign permit.
   B.   Application For Permit: Application for a sign permit shall be made in
writing on forms provided by the Building Commissioner and shall include:
      1.   Site plans for freestanding signs only, in triplicate, drawn to
scale, and fully dimensioned, showing:
         a.   A north arrow.
         b.   A dimensioned site plan of the parcel or lot upon which the sign
is to be located.
         c.   The name, address and telephone number of the person erecting the
sign.
         d.   The name, address and telephone number of the person applying for
the sign permit.
         e.   The name, address and telephone number of the owner of the
property upon which the sign is to be erected.
         f.   The location and setback of the sign upon the parcel or lot upon
which it is to be erected.
      2.   Three (3) copies of all signage drawings, including freestanding
signs, with elevation and section showing sign faces; exposed surfaces and
horizontal dimension in scale as to size, proportion and color, and indicating
the dimensions between the lowest elevation of the sign and grade; the
projection from buildings or sign structures; and a description of the sign
including, but not limited to, illumination and colors.
      3.   Three (3) copies of structural and electrical plans.
      4.   The written consent of the owner of the building, structure or
property upon or to which the sign is to be erected.
      5.   Such other information as the Building Commissioner shall require to
show full compliance with this chapter and all other laws and ordinances of the
Village.
   C.   Review Of Application: Each application for a sign permit shall be
reviewed by the Building Commissioner for the purpose of determining compliance
with the provisions of this chapter and all other applicable laws and
ordinances of the Village.
   D.   Issuance Or Denial Of Permit:
      1.   The Building Commissioner shall issue a sign permit for the
erection, reerection, alteration, relocation, affixing or painting of a sign
within the Village when the required permit application is properly made, all
appropriate fees have been paid, and the Building Commissioner has determined
that the sign will comply with the provisions of this chapter and all other
applicable laws and ordinances of the Village. No sign, in any district, shall
be considered or approved for a sign permit, until such time that the applicant
has obtained a building permit or a permit for an occupancy inspection, unless
otherwise permitted after consideration by the Village Board.
      2.   When any application for sign permit is denied by the Building
Commissioner, he shall give written notice of the denial to the applicant,
together with a brief written statement of the reasons for the denial. Appeal
from the Building Commissioner decision to deny a permit application may be
made by the applicant to the Planning and Zoning Commission in accordance with
the ordinances of the Village.
   E.   Permit Fees And Bond:
      1.   With the exception of commercial real estate signs, every sign
permit application shall be accompanied by a fee established by the Village
Board of Trustees to reimburse the Village for expenses incurred in connection
with its sign review, inspections and services. This fee may be waived for
nonprofit and governmental organizations.
      2.   A refundable bond may be required by the Building Commissioner at
the time the application is made. This fee shall be refunded subsequent to
staff approval of the sign and permit application, and final inspection by
staff, after the sign has been installed.
   F.   Exceptions: Any requested exception from the terms of this chapter
shall be reviewed and evaluated by the Village Plan Commission at a public
meeting. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall act as a recommending body to
the Village Board of Trustees, who shall be responsible for taking action on
the requested exception.
   G.   Limitations: Sign permits shall permit the erection, reerection,
alteration, relocation, affixing or painting of a sign only on the property
designated in the permit and only by the person to whom the permit was issued
and shall not be transferable. A separate sign permit must be obtained for each
sign for which a permit is required. (Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992; amd. 2012 Code;
Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017; Ord. 2024-08, 2-26-2024)
11-14-8: GENERAL SIGN REGULATIONS:
   A.   Obstructions Caused By Signs: No sign shall be erected, relocated or
maintained so as to prevent free access to, or egress from, any door, window or
fire escape. No sign containing advertising of any kind shall be attached or
affixed to any standpipe or fire escape.
   B.   Traffic Hazards: In order to assure traffic safety, no sign shall be
erected, relocated or maintained in such a manner as will, in the determination
of the Building Commissioner or Village Engineer:
      1.   By reason of size, location, content, coloring or manner of
illumination, obstruct the vision of drivers or obstruct or detract from the
visibility or effectiveness of any traffic sign or control device on streets
and roads within the Village.
      2.   Make use of words, phrases, symbols, lights or characters in such a
manner as to interfere with, mislead or confuse traffic.
   C.   Image/Video/Movement: Except as provided for in subsection T of this
section and Section
11-5-9(B)(8) of this code, moving, rotating or animated signs, as well as signs
creating the illusion of movement or LED based technology or any other
electronically generated graphic display, shall be prohibited.
   D.   Illuminated Signs: In addition to other applicable requirements set
forth in this chapter, all illuminated signs must comply with the following
provisions:
      1.   With the exception of "changing signs (automatic)", as defined in
subsection D2c under the definition of "sign" in section
11-14-3 of this chapter, all illuminated signs within one hundred feet (100')
of any residential zoning district shall be turned off between the hours of
eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. unless the
establishment is engaged in the operation of business during such period, in
which case, the sign may be lit during the hours of operation only.
      2.   Illumination shall be installed or applied only through a
translucent surface; or recessed into the sign structure; or if the light
source is external to the sign, directed to and concentrated on the sign. Signs
utilizing exposed neon tubing are not permitted.
      3.   Where lighting fixtures project light upon a freestanding sign, the
fixtures shall be placed so that the light source is aimed toward the sign and
away from the street. Lighting that is projected upon a sign shall not exceed
one thousand six hundred (1,600) lumens per side. The light fixture shall have
the light source fully shielded or recessed into the fixture housing.
      4.   Floodlights, gooseneck reflectors or other external sources of
illumination shall be contained within a protective casing.
      5.   Illumination shall be constant in intensity and color and shall not
consist of flashing, animated, chasing, scintillating or other illumination
conveying the sense of movement. Signs which exhibit only time and temperature
may be permitted.
   E.   Decorative Lighting: The placement and use of "decorative lighting", as
defined in section
11-14-3 of this chapter, shall be prohibited. This prohibition is not intended
to apply to temporary decorative lighting installed for the purpose of
celebrating the occasion of legal or religious holidays, which may be erected
and/or maintained for a total of forty five (45) days in a calendar year.
   F.   Vertical And Horizontal Extensions:
      1.   Any sign placed flat against a wall, mansard roof, canopy or awning
shall not extend beyond any vertical corner edge of such wall, canopy, awning,
roofline or parapet.
      2.   In addition to the requirement of subsection F1 of this section,
placement of any wall sign must meet the following provisions:
         a.   Signs shall not cover, wholly or partially, any wall opening, nor
project beyond the sides of the wall to which it is affixed.
         b.   Signs shall not project from the wall on which they are mounted
in such a manner as to pose an obstruction or hazard to pedestrians or
vehicles.
   G.   Changeable Copy: Except as provided under subsections D5 and T of this
section and subsection
11-14-11H of this chapter, changeable copy signs shall not be permitted.
   H.   Signs In Public Areas: Except for official signs erected by an agency
or unit of government, no sign shall be erected on any tree, utility pole,
traffic standard or other public sign standard or in public rights-of-way.
   I.   Planned Development Signs: Signs located within a planned development
shall be governed by those standards set forth in the underlying zoning
district. Such standards may, however, be modified by the Planning and Zoning
Commission in accordance with the provisions of chapter 18 of this title.
   J.   Old Town Signage:
      1.   With the exception of provisions contained in subsection J2 of this
section, all new signs hereinafter installed in the Old Town District shall
comply with the requirements of section
11-11-6 of this title.
      2.   The Building Commissioner may approve modifications to existing
signs in the district where copy is changed to reflect a new tenant; provided,
however, that:
         a.   Materials, area, height and other applicable dimensions comply
with the requirements of this chapter.
         b.   Color styling complements the building in which the tenant is
located.
         c.   Lettering style is consistent with that included in the General
Plan adopted for the Old Town District.
      3.   Signs in Old Town shall be consistent with guidelines set forth in
the General Development Plan as detailed in exhibit A of the Old Town plan
attached to ordinance 2006-03. Generally, copy may consist of either routed,
sandblasted, or individually applied letters, or may be painted directly onto
the sign face.
      4.   Where signage is part of a special use application, review by the
Planning and Zoning Commission and approval by the Village Board may also be
required.
   K.   Flags:
      1.   Unless authorized by the Village Board, flags, other than those of
any nation, state or political subdivision, shall be prohibited. There shall be
a maximum of two (2) flagpoles for each zoning lot.
      2.   The height of a flagpole shall be in proportion to the scale of the
building to which it relates, and in no case shall be higher than the following
height limitations:
 
Height Of Building Height Of Flagpole
(Stories)          (Feet)
1 to 2             20
3 to 5             25
6 to 10            35
 
      3.   The vertical length of a permitted flag on a flagpole shall not
exceed one-third (1/3) the length of the pole upon which it is hung. All flags
are to be maintained in an orderly fashion. Torn flags shall be taken down and
replaced.
   L.   Billboards: It is unlawful to construct, erect, locate, or maintain any
billboard without complying with the following provisions:
      1.   Location: Billboards may be allowed only along primary highways,
expressways, and interstate highways located within a B-4 (Business) or M-1
(Manufacturing) Zoning District.
      2.   Principal Use: Billboards shall be allowed only as the principal use
of a zoning lot. Billboards shall not be erected on any zoning lot which
contains an existing principal structure, building or use.
      3.   Number: No more than one billboard shall be located on a zoning lot.
      4.   Area: No billboard shall exceed one hundred fifty (150) square feet
in sign surface area per sign face.
      5.   Height: No billboard shall exceed thirty five feet (35') in height.
In all cases, height shall be measured as defined in the definition of "height
of sign" in section
11-14-3 of this chapter.
      6.   Bulk Requirements: Billboards shall meet the minimum yard, lot and
setback requirements of the zoning district in which they are located.
      7.   Residential Property Setback: Billboards shall not be located closer
than one hundred feet (100') from residentially zoned property.
      8.   Distance Between Signs: Billboards shall be located a minimum of one
hundred feet (100') from any other billboard or freestanding sign.
      9.   Protective Curbing: Any billboard within three feet (3') of a
driveway, parking area, or maneuvering area shall be completely surrounded by a
curbing that is not less than three feet (3') from the outermost perimeter of
the billboard, unless the billboard is mounted on a pole with a sign clearance
of at least twelve feet (12') above grade.
      10.   Design: Every billboard, including the frames, braces and supports
thereof, shall be securely built and designed by a structural engineer,
registered architect, or sign manufacturer, as may be required by the building
official.
      11.   Anchorage And Supports: All billboards shall be securely built,
constructed, erected and certified safe by a registered architect or engineer,
upon posts and standards sunk below the natural surface sufficient to prevent
overturning, to the satisfaction of the building and zoning official.
   M.   Vehicles With Signs: Any vehicle or trailer regularly and customarily
used to transport persons or property for a business or activity, which has
attached thereto or located thereon any sign or advertising device for the
basic purpose of providing advertisement of or directing people to a business
or activity located on any premises, shall be exempt from the regulations of
this chapter, except for the following:
      1.   The parking of any vehicle bearing a sign shall be limited to the
premises upon which the business or activity to which said sign refers is
located. The overnight parking of such a vehicle may be permitted at the
private residence of the vehicle operator, provided said vehicle is in
compliance with chapter 13 of this title.
      2.   The parking of any vehicle bearing a sign in such a way or in such a
location so that the vehicle functionally serves as a freestanding sign,
advertising or directing viewers to the business or activity to which the
signage refers shall be prohibited.
      3.   The parking of any vehicle bearing a sign in public view which is
not in operating condition and/or lacks a current registration shall be
prohibited.
   N.   Abandoned, Obsolete Signs:
      1.   Any sign which no longer identifies a bona fide business, activity,
event or service conducted, or product sold on the premises where the sign is
located, or otherwise, shall be taken down by the owner of the building,
structure or property upon which said sign is located.
      2.   If such sign is not removed, the Building Commissioner shall issue
written notification to the owner of the building, structure or property, and
the sign shall be removed within ten (10) days of receipt of such notification.
   O.   Nonconforming Signs: It is reasonable that special conditions be placed
upon the continuance of existing nonconforming signs. This special condition
program permits the current owner to continue using the nonconforming sign
while at the same time assuring that the district in which the nonconforming
sign exists will eventually comply.
      1.   Continuance Of Nonconforming Signs: Subject to the termination
provisions set forth in subsection O2 of this section, any nonconforming sign
may be continued in operation and maintained after the effective date hereof.
Ordinary repairs and alterations may be made to a nonconforming sign, subject
to the approval of the building and zoning official, however, no structural
alterations shall be made to the sign unless such alterations shall cause such
structure to conform to the regulations of the district in which it is located.
A prohibited structural alteration occurs when there is an extension or
enlargement of the supporting elements of the sign, or reconstruction of a
nonconforming sign.
      2.   Termination Of Nonconforming Signs:
         a.   By Abandonment: Abandonment or cessation for a period of ninety
(90) days or the change of the principal use to which the nonconforming sign is
accessory shall terminate immediately the right to maintain such sign.
         b.   By Violation: Any violation of the provisions of this chapter
shall terminate immediately the right to maintain a nonconforming sign.
         c.   By Destruction, Damage, Or Obsolescence: The right to maintain
any nonconforming sign shall terminate and shall cease to exist when one of the
following applies:
            (1)   The sign is damaged or destroyed, from any cause whatsoever,
to the extent that its repair or replacement cost exceeds fifty percent (50%)
of its replacement cost as of the date it became nonconforming. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, damage or destruction limited to the face of the sign may be
repaired or replaced regardless of the cost of the replacement, if so desired;
or
            (2)   The sign becomes a hazard or a danger to the safety or
welfare of the general public; or
            (3)   The sign is totally destroyed, from any cause whatsoever.
         d.   Change In Use: A change of use of the building or site
represented by the nonconforming sign shall terminate immediately the right to
maintain the nonconforming sign. The new owner or tenant of the new use has
ninety (90) days from the close of sale or date of lease or lease change within
which to bring the nonconforming sign into compliance.
         e.   By New Development Or Redevelopment On The Zoning Lot: Where new
construction or redevelopment occurs on a zoning lot, any nonconforming sign
which may exist on said lot shall be removed or modified as necessary to
conform to the requirements of this chapter. This shall occur before permits
are issued for site development and building construction on the premises. For
purposes of this section, new development or redevelopment occurs under at
least one of the following conditions:
            (1)   When the existing structures on a zoning lot are removed and
replaced with new building(s);
            (2)   When there is an addition of more than fifty percent (50%) of
the existing floor area to the existing buildings on a zoning lot;
            (3)   When there is a renovation involving building permits for
more than fifty percent (50%) of the existing floor area on a zoning lot;
            (4)   When there is an expansion of the building on the zoning lot
that necessitates the removal of the nonconforming sign.
         f.   By Roadway Widening: Nonconforming signs which are moved or
affected by roadway widening shall not be reinstated but shall, instead, be
brought into conformance with all elements of this code.
      3.   Notification To Remove:
         a.   If the building and zoning official shall find that any sign is
unsafe or insecure, or is a menace to the public, or has been constructed or
erected or is being maintained in violation of the provisions of this chapter,
the building and zoning official shall issue written notice of such condition
or violation to the person to whom the permit for said sign has been issued or
to the building owner.
         b.   All notices issued by the building and zoning official shall
describe the sign and its location and shall specify the manner in which the
sign is in violation of the ordinance(s) of the village. All notices issued by
the building and zoning official shall be sent by certified mail to the person
to whom the permit for said sign has been issued, and to the current owner. Any
time period provided in this chapter shall be deemed to commence on the date of
the receipt of the certified mail, or if receipt is refused, on the date of
mailing.
         c.   After ten (10) days of the receipt of the certified mail as
described in subsection O3b of this section, if the party to whom such notice
is issued fails to remove or alter the sign so as to comply with the provisions
of this chapter the building and zoning official may remove or alter the sign
at the expense of the owner.
         d.   The cost of removing the sign, including legal fees, court costs,
and related trial expenses, may be recovered by the village through any
appropriate legal proceeding or by assessment against the property. The cost of
removal shall be deemed to include any and all incidental expenses, as well as
all direct and indirect costs, incurred by the village in connection with
removal of the sign.
         e.   The building and zoning official may cause any sign which is an
immediate peril to the health, welfare or safety of persons or property to be
removed summarily and without notice.
         f.   The building and zoning official shall not issue any sign permit
to any person who has failed to pay costs or expenses incurred by the village
in removing or altering any sign for which he has previously obtained a permit,
regardless of whether legal proceedings have been initiated for the purpose of
recovering such costs.
      4.   Exceptions: Nonconforming signs may be granted formal conforming
status by requesting an exception to the sign ordinance through a public
meeting conducted by the planning and zoning commission with review and
approval by the village board of trustees.
   P.   Development Ordinances: The village board may execute ordinances for
individual developments which contain specific language and regulations for
project related signage. Where this occurs and sign requirements set forth in
the development ordinance for a specific project conflict with the standards of
this chapter, the terms of the development ordinance shall take precedence,
unless the owner decides, subsequent to the adoption of the development
ordinance, to conform to the most restrictive regulations of this chapter.
   Q.   Outdoor Display Of Merchandise:
      1.   The outdoor display of merchandise to attract attention to a
business shall be prohibited. All merchandise shall be fully enclosed within a
building, unless a special use permit is obtained in accordance with section
11-3-4 of this title. Any unauthorized merchandise on display outdoors is
considered contraband and may be summarily seized for evidence by the village.
      2.   After a written notice of violation, village services personnel may
confiscate said unauthorized merchandise displayed illegally for evidence in
prosecution of the violation.
   R.   Landscaping At Base Of Sign: All freestanding signs shall be
accompanied by, at minimum, evergreen plantings at the base of the sign to
extend at least three feet (3') in all directions around the base of the sign.
For freestanding signs larger than thirty five (35) square feet in area, the
area of landscaping around the base of the sign shall increase accordingly.
   S.   Temporary Civic, Charitable, And Philanthropic Signage: Charitable,
religious, or civic organizations ("organization(s)") may erect temporary signs
for fundraising and other related events, on private property that may or may
not ("off premises signage") be owned or controlled by said organization, if
consistent with the following requirements:
      1.   The area of the temporary sign shall not exceed thirty two (32)
square feet.
      2.   Each organization shall be allowed one off premises temporary sign
annually and two (2) on premises signs annually.
      3.   The duration of temporary signage shall not exceed thirty (30)
consecutive days.
      4.   The placement of a temporary off premises sign on private property
shall be limited to lots facing Lake Street, Gary Avenue, Schick Road,
Bloomingdale Road, Glen Ellyn Road, and Army Trail Road.
      5.   The organization shall obtain a sign permit from the village,
although no permit fee shall be assessed.
      6.   The organization shall provide documentation indicating the sign
location on a site plan or aerial photo, and include pertinent information
regarding size and materials.
      7.   Sign height and placement with respect to property line and street
curb shall be the same as that required for permanent signs on the streets and
roads listed in subsection S4 of this section.
      8.   If site conditions preclude placement within minimum distance from
the property line or street curb, the building and zoning official may permit
placement with less than the required distance subsequent to his determination
that line of sight and other public safety considerations are not adversely
affected.
   T.   Electronic Message Boards For Certain Governmental Organizations:
      1.   Electronic message boards shall only be permitted on properties
owned and operated by school districts located within the Village of
Bloomingdale, Bloomingdale Park District and/or the Village of Bloomingdale and
shall not be located within the boundaries of the Old Town District. In
addition, Bloomingdale Fire Protection District shall also be permitted one
such sign for station 23, located on Gary Avenue, and no other station. Such
message boards shall only be permitted when incorporated within a freestanding
monument sign. The overall sign must comply with all existing requirements,
limitations and allowance, as set forth in this chapter, regarding freestanding
monument signs. Electronic message boards incorporated into an approved sign
shall be subject to the following conditions:
         a.   Electronic message centers shall be used to display public
information only.
         b.   Electronic message centers shall not exceed the maximum square
footage allowed for signage within the district in which the sign is proposed.
         c.   Changeable copy may not be animated and may not change more
frequently than once every twenty (20) seconds.
         d.   A maximum of two (2) electronic message centers shall be allowed
per governing agency or, in the case of a school district, only one per school.
The Bloomingdale Fire Protection District shall be limited to one such sign,
which may only be located at station 23 on Gary Avenue.
         e.   No sounds will be permitted.
      2.   Any changes or amendments to this subsection T, may be approved by
the Village Board without the review and recommendation of the Planning and
Zoning Commission. The Village Board may at its discretion, however, refer such
requests to the Planning and Zoning Commission for a public hearing, according
to the applicable procedures for new text amendments as specified in this Code.
(Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2012-27, 6-11-2012; Ord. 2013-33,
10-28-2013; Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014; Ord. 2016-25, 7-11-2016; Ord. 2017-42,
11-13-2017; Ord. 2021-37, 9-27-2021)
11-14-9: SIGNS IN ALL DISTRICTS:
   A.   Construction Signs: Construction signs shall be allowed in all zoning
districts for the purpose of denoting the construction of individual buildings
or projects as follows:
      1.   Construction signs shall not be erected any earlier than four (4)
months prior to the actual commencement of construction.
      2.   All construction signs shall be confined to the construction site.
(Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992; amd. 2012 Code)
      3.   All construction signs shall be removed within ten (10) days of
completion of construction and, in all cases, prior to the issuance of an
occupancy permit, unless otherwise approved by the Building Commissioner. (Ord.
92-38, 6-22-1992; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
      4.   Upon removal of the construction sign, advertisement of the sale,
lease or rent of the property may be achieved through the use of a real estate
sign in accordance with this chapter, or a commercial leasing sign in
accordance with subsection D of this section.
      5.   The content of construction signs shall be limited to the project
name/logo; the architect; the engineer; the contractor; the builder or
developer; the lending institution; the business of the establishment under
construction; the opening date; the type of units being offered; information
pertaining to the price of such units; the leasing agent and his or her
telephone number; and financing and amenities.
      6.   No more than one construction sign shall be allowed per street
frontage per project. Separate construction signs may be allowed in planned
developments in accordance with the type of buildings to be constructed in the
planned development.
      7.   The maximum size of any construction sign fronting on Lake Street,
Army Trail Road or Gary Avenue shall be one hundred (100) square feet per sign
face, or two hundred (200) square feet total. The maximum size of any
construction sign fronting on any other street shall not exceed fifty (50)
square feet per sign face. Construction signs may be double sided.
      8.   Construction signs shall not exceed nine feet (9') in height.
      9.   Construction signs shall be located with a minimum setback of
fifteen feet (15') from any property line or from the back of the curb of an
adjacent access drive. In all cases, construction signs shall be set back
twenty feet (20') from the back of the curb of an adjacent public street.
      10.   Construction signs shall not be illuminated.
   B.   Directional Signs: Signs which provide only direction or information
for vehicular movement to churches, public places, shopping centers and places
of public accommodation shall be permitted as follows: (Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992;
amd. 2012 Code)
      1.   Directional signs shall not exceed four (4) square feet in area,
unless otherwise approved by the Building Commissioner or Village Board as part
of the site plan review process.
      2.   There shall be no maximum number of signs, but the number and
location of all directional signs shall be as determined by the Building
Commissioner as necessary for safety. (Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992; amd. 2012 Code;
Ord. 2017-42, 11-12-2017)
      3.   Except within residential/agricultural districts, directional signs
may be illuminated. (Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992; amd. 2012 Code)
      4.   The maximum height of any freestanding directional sign shall not
exceed four feet (4'), as measured from the top of the adjacent curb, unless
otherwise approved by the Building Commissioner or Village Board as part of the
site plan review process. (Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42,
11-13-2017)
   C.   Development Identification Signs: Freestanding signs shall be permitted
for the purpose of identifying planned developments, subdivisions or retail
commercial development of three (3) acres or more, subject to the following
conditions:
      1.   There shall be a maximum of one such freestanding sign for each
planned unit development, residential subdivision or commercial development of
three (3) acres or more; provided, however, that:
         a.   Where a planned unit development has multiple entrances along
public streets, additional signs may be granted by the Village Board. (Ord. 92-
38, 6-22-1992)
         b.   Development identification signs as provided herein shall be
reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Commission at a public meeting and approved
by the Village Board. (Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
         c.   Identification signs for residential subdivisions may be
installed on masonry entry monuments, constructed on both sides of the entry.
Where approved, entry monuments and development identification signs shall be
provided with landscape plantings so that they blend into the landscape of
which they are a part. Residential signs shall be maintained by a homeowners'
association or similar organization. No such sign shall be permitted unless the
applicant furnishes satisfactory proof to the Village Board that the sign will
be maintained in good condition and repair as long as it is displayed. (Ord.
92-38, 6-22-1992)
      2.   The total size, including the base of a freestanding sign, shall not
exceed nine feet (9') in height nor twenty four inches (24") in thickness.
Where such signs are installed on entrance monuments, said monuments shall
comply with all setback requirements set forth herein. (Ord. 2017-08, 3-13-
2017)
      3.   The sign area shall not exceed thirty five (35) square feet per
side, limited to two (2) sides, or seventy (70) square feet total. A retail
commercial or multiuse planned development of three (3) acres or more may be
granted a sign area not to exceed sixty three (63) square feet per side,
limited to two (2) sides, or one hundred twenty six (126) square feet total.
      4.   The sign shall be located such that the nearest edge shall be set
back a minimum of fifteen feet (15') from all property lines and the curb of
adjacent access drives and, in no case, less than twenty feet (20') from the
back of the curb of an adjacent public street.
      5.   The sign shall not impede normal pedestrian movement nor obstruct
the driver line of sight for motor vehicle traffic. (Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992)
      6.   Except within residential and agricultural districts, development
identification signs may be illuminated. However, low level landscape lighting
shall be permitted in residential and agricultural districts, subject to review
and approval by the Building Commissioner. Said landscape lighting shall be
adjusted to avoid direct illumination of the sign. (Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992; amd.
2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
      7.   Tenant identification may be provided on freestanding development
identification signs in commercially zoned districts, provided they are
consistent with the following: (Ord. 2012-27, 6-11-2012)
         a.   Brick, stone, or other masonry material used in the facade of the
principal building shall be used for the base or side supports of the sign. No
part of the sign shall be more than eighteen inches (18") above grade. Side
supports, if used, shall be less than twenty four inches (24") in depth and
width. (Ord. 2017-08, 3-13-2017)
         b.   A minimum of eighteen inches (18") from grade shall remain clear
of sign copy to allow for landscaping at the base of the sign. (Ord. 2012-27,
6-11-2012)
         c.   All tenant panels' backgrounds within the sign shall be the same
color. Colors and materials should have a flat, matte finish. (Ord. 2017-08, 3-
13-2017)
         d.   Other than text used to identify the tenants, there shall not be
any other graphics used in the sign background of the tenant panels.
         e.   Neither telephone numbers nor website addresses shall be allowed
on the multi-tenant identification sign.
         f.   The shape of the outer perimeter of the sign structure shall be
square, rectangular, or symmetrical in shape, including the sign base. The sign
shall contain elements of articulation, such as cornices, pediments, and stone
caps, to give the sign dimension.
         g.   The shopping center identification portion of the sign shall
occupy, at minimum, the top twenty five percent (25%) of the sign face area. A
small logo, approximate in size to that of one of the letter characters in the
name of the shopping center, may be allowed in the shopping center
identification portion of the sign. (Ord. 2012-27, 6-11-2012)
         h.   All tenant panels shall be the same size, and no more than two
(2) columns shall be permitted.
         i.   A maximum of four (4) tenants shall be allowed on a sign with
thirty five (35) square feet for properties under three (3) acres and a maximum
of six (6) tenants shall be allowed for a sign with sixty three (63) square
feet for properties over three (3) acres, pursuant to subsection C3 of this
section. (Ord. 2017-08, 3-13-2017)
   D.   Commercial Real Estate Signs:
      1.   Three Acres Or More: With the exception of owner occupied
residential subdivisions, commercial real estate signs shall be allowed for
developments three (3) acres or more in size under unified control, subject to
the following:
         a.   A commercial real estate sign shall be located only upon the
premises for or containing space for sale, lease or rental. No off site
commercial real estate signs shall be allowed. One commercial real estate sign
is allowed per street frontage. The sign may or may not be two (2) sided. In no
case shall more than two (2) commercial real estate signs be permitted for each
development.
         b.   The maximum size of such signs shall be thirty two (32) square
feet per sign face, unless combined with a freestanding business identification
sign, in which case, total sign area shall not exceed fifty eight (58) square
feet.
         c.   Unless combined with a freestanding business identification sign,
copy shall be limited to sale, lease or rental information only. No business or
tenant identification shall be permitted.
         d.   The height of any commercial real estate sign shall be limited to
nine feet (9').
         e.   A commercial real estate sign shall be set back a minimum of
fifteen feet (15') from all property lines and the curb of adjacent access
drives and, in no case, less than twenty feet (20') from the back of the curb
of an adjacent public street. At the discretion of the building and zoning
official, real estate signs as allowed by this section may be wall or building
mounted in lieu of freestanding.
         f.   Commercial real estate signs shall be so designed and constructed
to create and maintain a durable structure having a permanent appearance. Plans
and drawings for commercial real estate signs shall be subject to review and
approval by the building and zoning official.
         g.   Commercial real estate signs shall not be illuminated unless part
of a project identification sign.
         h.   The base of any commercial real estate sign shall be landscaped
with shrub plantings. Said landscaping shall be subject to review and approval
by the building and zoning official.
      2.   Less Than Three Acres: With the exception of owner occupied
residential subdivisions, commercial real estate signs shall be allowed for
developments less than three (3) acres in size under unified control, subject
to the following:
         a.   A commercial real estate sign shall be located only upon the
premises for or containing space for lease or rent. No off site commercial real
estate signs shall be allowed. One commercial real estate sign is allowed per
street frontage. The sign may or may not be two (2) sided. In no case shall
more than two (2) commercial real estate signs be permitted for each
development.
         b.   The maximum size of such signs shall be sixteen (16) square feet
per sign face.
         c.   Copy shall be limited to sale, lease or rental information only.
No business or tenant identification shall be permitted.
         d.   The height of any commercial real estate sign shall be limited to
five feet (5'), as measured from the grade of the adjacent curb.
         e.   A commercial real estate sign shall be set back a minimum of
fifteen feet (15') from all property lines and the curb of adjacent access
drives and, in no case, less than twenty feet (20') from the back of the curb
of an adjacent public street. At the discretion of the building and zoning
official, real estate signs as allowed by this section may be wall or building
mounted in lieu of freestanding.
         f.   Commercial real estate signs shall be so designed and constructed
to create and maintain a durable structure having a permanent appearance. Plans
and drawings for commercial leasing signs shall be subject to review and
approval by the building and zoning official.
         g.   Commercial real estate signs shall not be illuminated.
         h.   The base of any commercial real estate sign shall be landscaped
with shrub plantings. Said landscaping shall be subject to review and approval
by the building and zoning official. (Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
   E.   Display Of Banners For Nonprofit Or Governmental Organizations: Banners
identifying a special, unique, or limited activity, service, project, or event
of limited duration may be permitted as follows: (Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992; amd.
2012 Code)
      1.   Duration: Banners may be erected and maintained for a period not to
exceed thirty (30) consecutive days prior to the activity, project, service or
event to which the banner refers, unless written approval is obtained by the
Building Commissioner to extend the thirty (30) day display time for a
specified number of days. In all cases, banners shall be removed within three
(3) days of the termination of the activity, project, or event. (Ord. 92-38, 6-
22-1992; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
      2.   Location: Banners for nonprofit or governmental organizations may be
located on public property or within public rights-of-way as follows:
         a.   North side of Springfield Drive, between Lake Street and Schick
Road, including the intersection.
         b.   Schick Road, between Bloomingdale Road and Gary Avenue; and
         c.   Bloomingdale Road, Lake Street and Schick Road in the Old Town
District.
      3.   Display:
         a.   Banners for nonprofit or governmental organizations may be
located on a building, or banners may be installed on poles in customer parking
lots or along those public rights-of-way identified in subsection E2 of this
section.
         b.   The maximum size of any banner installed on a building shall not
exceed five percent (5%) of the projected elevation of the facade upon which it
is located and shall not exceed one hundred fifty (150) square feet in area.
(Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992)
         c.   Banners shall have a vertical clearance of nine feet (9') above
grade from a sidewalk or landscaped area and twelve feet (12') above the grade
of a customer parking lot, drive aisle or public right-of-way, unless written
approval is obtained from the Building Commissioner.
         d.   In no case shall banners project higher than eighteen feet (18')
above the sidewalk or street, unless written approval is obtained from the
Building Commissioner. (Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42,
11-13-2017)
         e.   Banners displayed on poles shall be double sided and shall not
exceed six feet (6') in height nor two and one-half feet (21/2') in width.
         f.   Not more than two (2) banners shall be allowed per pole.
         g.   Any banner which becomes torn or tattered while being displayed
shall be immediately replaced or removed. (Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992; amd. 2012
Code)
      4.   Approval: No banner may be erected in the Village without obtaining
written approval of said banner from the Building Commissioner.
      5.   Required Submittals: The following shall be submitted to the
Building Commissioner for review and approval not less than fifteen (15)
business days prior to the intended date of display:
         a.   A letter which describes the organization seeking approval for
banner display, the purpose of the banners, duration of display, and any other
information determined to be appropriate by the Building Commissioner. (Ord.
92-38, 6-22-1992; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
         b.   Drawing of the proposed banner, including dimensions, colors,
copy, and materials.
         c.   Details for mounting banners which demonstrate that banners will
comply with required vertical grade clearance and maximum height regulations
set forth in subsections E3c and E3d of this section.
         d.   Site plan, showing proposed location of banner display.
         e.   The Village may require payment of a security deposit, to be
established by the Village Board of Trustees, refundable when banners are
removed within specified time period. When banners are displayed beyond the
duration allowed by this subsection, the deposit shall be forfeited to the
Village. The application fee will be waived for nonprofit and governmental
organizations. (Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992; amd. 2012 Code)
11-14-10: SIGNS IN RESIDENCE DISTRICTS (R-1, R-2, R-2A, R-2B, R-2C, R-3, R-4,
R-5):
   A.   Residential Real Estate Signs: Residential real estate signs shall be
permitted as follows:
      1.   There shall be a maximum of one residential real estate sign per
zoning lot; except, that on a corner lot having frontage on two (2) streets,
two (2) signs shall be permitted.
      2.   Residential real estate signs shall not exceed five feet (5') in
height.
      3.   The maximum size of a residential real estate sign shall be four (4)
square feet per side.
      4.   Residential real estate signs shall be located with a minimum
setback of five feet (5').
      5.   Residential real estate signs shall not be illuminated.
   B.   Home Occupation/Nameplate Signs: Home occupation/nameplate signs shall
be permitted as follows:
      1.   There shall be a maximum of one such sign per zoning lot.
      2.   Home occupation/nameplate signs shall contain only the name,
address, telephone number and occupation of the occupant.
      3.   The maximum size of any home occupation/nameplate sign shall be one
square foot.
      4.   Home occupation/nameplate signs shall be located with a minimum
setback of eight feet (8').
      5.   Home occupation/nameplate signs shall not exceed five feet (5') in
height.
      6.   Home occupation/nameplate signs shall not be illuminated.
   C.   Church Signs: Church signs shall be permitted as follows:
      1.   There shall be a maximum of one church sign per zoning lot;
provided, however, that a maximum of two (2) church signs shall be permitted
when the church to which the sign refers is located on a corner lot.
      2.   Church signs shall be limited to an area of thirty five (35) square
feet if located on Gary Avenue, Lake Street, Army Trail Road, Schick Road,
Bloomingdale Road or Glen Ellyn Road. Church signs erected on any other public
right of way in the village shall be limited to an area of sixteen (16) square
feet. In no case shall a church sign exceed a height of nine feet (9').
      3.   Church signs shall be set back a minimum of fifteen feet (15') from
all property lines and from the back of the curb of adjacent access drives and,
in no case, less than twenty feet (20') from the back of the curb of an
adjacent public street.
      4.   Church signs may include changeable copy; provided, however, that
the area of the sign devoted to changeable copy does not exceed fifty percent
(50%) of the total gross surface area of the sign.
      5.   Church signs may be illuminated.
   D.   Building Identification Signs: Wall mounted building identification
signs shall be permitted only in conjunction with multi-family or institutional
developments with two (2) or more buildings or structures, subject to the
following conditions:
      1.   There shall be a maximum of one such sign per multi-family or
institutional building; provided, however, that a maximum of two (2) such signs
shall be permitted when the multi-family or institutional building has
entrances on more than one facade.
      2.   The maximum size of any building identification sign shall be four
(4) square feet.
      3.   A building identification sign may be illuminated.
   E.   Garage And Rummage Sale Signs: Garage and rummage sale signs shall be
permitted as follows:
      1.   Only one such sign shall be allowed on the premises where the sale
is taking place, unless such property has frontage on two (2) public streets,
in which case, two (2) signs are permitted, one at each frontage.
      2.   Three (3) additional locations (not to include the public right of
way or any buildings or structures thereon) may be selected for placement of
rummage sale or garage sale signs announcing the same sale. Any sign to be
placed on property owned by others must have verifiable permission of that
property owner.
      3.   No rummage sale or garage sale sign shall exceed three (3) square
feet in surface area.
      4.   No garage or rummage sale sign shall exceed five feet (5') in
height.
      5.   No such sign shall be placed or otherwise erected for more than
three (3) consecutive days at a location permitted under this chapter.
      6.   No garage sale or rummage sale signs shall be posted or displayed on
streetlight poles, utility poles, street signs, traffic sign poles or otherwise
erected upon any public right of way; nor shall they be displayed on or within
vehicles, or placed in such a location to cause an obstruction to the clear
view of traffic.
      7.   No rummage sale or garage sale signs shall be erected before six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. nor remain after seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. on any day of
the sale. No such signs shall be erected prior to the sale date, and all signs
must be removed by seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. on each day.
      8.   All such signs shall have the street address and the date(s) of the
sale printed legibly and be dark printing on a light background.
   F.   Banner Signs: Banner signs identifying a grand opening for residential
planned unit developments shall be permitted as follows: (Ord. 92-38, 6-22-
1992)
      1.   Duration: Banners may be erected and maintained for a period not to
exceed thirty (30) days, unless written approval is obtained by the Building
Commissioner to extend the thirty (30) day display time for a specified number
of days. (Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
      2.   Location, Size, Height And Number:
         a.   A banner sign may be located on a building, or banners may be
installed on poles at the entrance to a planned unit development or along the
adjacent public rights-of-way:
            (1)   The maximum size of any banner sign installed on a building
shall not exceed five percent (5%) of the projected elevation of the facade
upon which it is located and shall not exceed one hundred fifty feet (150') in
area. (Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992)
            (2)   Banners shall have a vertical clearance of nine feet (9')
above grade from a sidewalk or landscaped area and twelve feet (12') above the
grade of a customer parking lot, drive aisle or public right-of-way, unless
written approval is obtained from the Building Commissioner.
            (3)   Banners shall not project higher than eighteen feet (18')
above grade, unless written approval is obtained from the Building
Commissioner. (Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
            (4)   Banners installed on poles shall be double sided and shall
not exceed six feet (6') in height nor two and one-half feet (21/2') in width.
            (5)   Not more than two (2) banners shall be allowed per pole.
      3.   Display: Banners displayed on poles must be double sided. Any banner
which becomes torn or tattered while being displayed shall be immediately
replaced or removed. (Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992; amd. 2012 Code)
      4.   Approval: No banner may be erected in a residential planned unit
development without written approval of said banner by the Building
Commissioner.
      5.   Required Submittals: The following shall be submitted to the
Building Commissioner for review and approval not less than fifteen (15) days
prior to the intended date of display:
         a.   A letter which describes the organization seeking approval for
banner display, the purpose of the banners, duration of display, and any other
information determined to be appropriate by the Building Commissioner. (Ord.
92-38, 6-22-1992; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
         b.   Drawing of proposed banner, including dimensions, colors, copy
and materials.
         c.   Details for mounting banners which demonstrate that banners will
comply with required vertical grade clearance and maximum height restrictions
set forth in subsections F2a(2) and F2a(3) of this section.
         d.   Site plan, showing proposed location of banner display.
         e.   Payment of an application fee and security deposit in amounts to
be determined by the Village Board of Trustees 1 , said security deposit to be
refunded when banners are removed within the specified time period. When
banners are displayed beyond the duration allowed by this subsection, the
deposit shall be forfeited to the Village. (Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992; amd. 2012
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-1-2-3 of this Code for application fee.
11-14-11: SIGNS IN BUSINESS DISTRICTS (B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4) AND FOR COMMERCIAL
USES IN PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS OF 250 ACRES OR MORE:
   A.   Wall Signs: Business identification shall be permitted as follows:
      1.   Number: Subject to subsection A2 of this section, there shall be a
maximum of one wall sign for each business establishment; provided, however, a
maximum of two (2) such wall signs for a building establishment shall be
permitted when the business establishment to which the sign refers has more
than one business frontage. For the purposes of this subsection, a "business
frontage" shall mean a public right of way, a customer access drive, or a
customer parking lot which serves the commercial establishment.
      2.   Wall Signs: A maximum of one wall sign shall be permitted for each
office building housing multiple business establishments and sharing a common
building entrance, regardless of the number of business establishments within
said building. However, a maximum of two (2) wall signs shall be permitted if
the building has more than one business frontage as per subsection A1 of this
section.
      3.   Maximum Size: The maximum size of any business identification wall
sign shall not exceed five percent (5%) of the building facade area upon which
the sign is to be located, to a maximum of one hundred (100) square feet.
      4.   Business Identification Signs: Business identification signs may be
illuminated.
      5.   Individual Letters: Except as provided in subsection A7 of this
section, business identification shall consist of individual letters applied
directly to the wall of the building. Installation of box signs shall be
prohibited. Individual letters may be applied to a raceway, provided the
raceway is:
         a.   Designed to be an integral element of the architecture of the
facade (i.e., recessed); or
         b.   The same color as the facade to which it is installed.
      6.   Unified Shopping Centers And Retail Planned Developments:
         a.   Wall signs within a shopping center under unified control shall
be unified in design. Where signs are reviewed as part of a planned unit
development, special use request or in accordance with requirements of the
village site plan review provisions, plans and other documentation shall be
submitted for review by the planning and zoning commission and approval by the
village board which:
            (1)   Demonstrates sign area will not exceed requirements of
subsection A3 of this section;
            (2)   Shows individually applied letters;
            (3)   Identifies the number of lines of copy proposed;
            (4)   Identifies the maximum and minimum letter height for each
line of copy;
            (5)   Demonstrates that signs would be centered horizontally and
vertically on the sign frieze;
            (6)   Addresses whether logos will be permitted;
            (7)   Defines proposed color styling; and
            (8)   Identifies the allowable percent of the length of the
storefront facade to be used for signage.
         b.   Notwithstanding provisions regulating the maximum size of wall
mounted signs elsewhere in this chapter, for wall mounted identification signs
in unified shopping centers, outlots, or retail planned developments, the
maximum area allowed shall be the lesser of five percent (5%) of the area of
the facade upon which the sign is to be affixed or the following:
            (1)   On a structure with a distance from the arterial street right
of way greater than seventy five feet (75'), but less than two hundred feet
(200'), may be allowed to be as large as one hundred fifty (150) square feet.
            (2)   On a structure with a distance from the arterial street right
of way greater than two hundred feet (200') but less than five hundred feet
(500'), may be allowed to be as large as two hundred (200) square feet.
            (3)   On a structure with a distance from the arterial right of way
greater than five hundred feet (500') may be allowed to be as large as three
hundred (300) square feet.
            (4)   These preceding allowances will supersede area limitations
approved prior to the date of enactment hereof for signage in site specific
development ordinances for unified shopping centers.
            (5)   These limitations shall apply only to those business
frontages that are parallel to the arterial street right of way (i.e., they
would not apply to businesses that are perpendicular to the street right of
way).
         c.   Outlot buildings in planned developments or unified shopping
centers, in addition to any other permitted signage, may be allowed one
additional wall mounted sign, not to exceed twenty five (25) square feet in
area, to be facing the direction of the in line retail area so as to have
visibility from that direction. (Ord. 2017-08, 3-13-2017)
      7.   Logos And Accent Elements: Wall mounted signs may contain elements
that consist of a corporate or store logo or another graphic accent containing
sign copy that is constructed in a manner that is similar to a box sign. Such
elements may be combined with the independent channel letters as part of a
single sign, so long as they are subordinate to that portion of the sign
containing channel letters. The area of the sign shall be calculated as the
area of a rectangle that encompasses the outer limits of all sign elements.
(Ord. 2018-41, 12-10-2018)
   B.   Freestanding Signs:
      1.   Number: In addition to the signs otherwise permitted in Business
Districts, one freestanding sign may be permitted per lot of record ("lot"),
however, where the principal use occupies more than a single lot that could
otherwise be consolidated into a single lot through a plat of consolidation,
only one freestanding sign will be permitted.
      2.   Separation: There shall be a minimum distance of one hundred feet
(100') between freestanding signs. Notwithstanding the foregoing, freestanding
signs in unified shopping centers and other commercial planned developments
shall be allowed as provided in the zoning ordinance approving those
developments. (Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013)
      3.   Appearance: Where specifically allowed in a unified shopping center
or planned development, a logo may be permitted, and it shall be approximate in
size to the character of a letter on the sign. (Ord. 2017-08, 3-13-2017)
      4.   Conditions: The required conditions for the erection, relocation,
and maintenance of freestanding signs are as follows:
         a.   The total bulk, including the base, of a freestanding sign, shall
not exceed nine feet (9') in height nor sixteen inches (16") in thickness.
         b.   The face of the sign area shall not exceed thirty five (35)
square feet per side, limited to two (2) sides, or a total of seventy (70)
square feet. A retail, commercial, or multiuse planned development of three (3)
acres or more may be granted a sign area face not to exceed sixty three (63)
square feet per side, limited to two (2) sides, or a total of one hundred
twenty six (126) square feet.
         c.   The sign shall be located with a minimum setback of fifteen feet
(15') from any property line or from the back of the curb of an adjacent access
drive. Notwithstanding this requirement, where, in the judgment of the building
and zoning official, it is not possible to meet the setback of fifteen feet
(15') because the area for sign placement is narrowed by virtue of a previous
right-of-way taking, or because of some other unusual circumstance with respect
to lot configuration, the sign may be placed as close as five feet (5') from
the right-of-way line, however, the sign shall not be placed nearer to the
right-of-way line than that of other signs in the vicinity of the sign in
question for a distance of approximately three hundred feet (300') in either
direction of the sign. In all cases, the freestanding sign shall be set back
twenty feet (20') from the back of the curb of an adjacent public street.
         d.   The sign shall not impede normal pedestrian movement nor obstruct
the driver's line of sight for motor vehicle traffic.
         e.   The sign may be illuminated.
   C.   Window Signs: Each commercial use with storefront windows at street or
sidewalk level may have one or more window signs, subject to the following
provisions:
      1.   Window sign coverage, regardless of whether temporary or permanent,
shall not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the total glass area of the
building facade in which such signs are displayed.
      2.   Window signs shall be nonilluminated and limited to those describing
or advertising a special business feature, a retail promotion or special sale
or event for the business on which the window is located.
      3.   Notwithstanding the requirements of subsection C2 of this section,
each commercial use that has display windows at ground level may display a
single "OPEN" sign that may be illuminated with a neon or light emitting diode
(LED) light source. Said sign shall not exceed twenty four inches (24") in
length and twelve inches (12") in height, and shall not contain any moving or
flashing components.
      4.   Window signs shall not be included in the computation of total
allowable sign surface area for exterior wall mounted signage. (Ord. 2013-33,
10-28-2013)
   D.   Beacons: Beacons shall be permitted for "grand openings" as defined in
section
11-14-3 of this chapter, subject to the following:
      1.   Only one beacon shall be allowed per grand opening.
      2.   Light display shall be limited to Friday, Saturday and Sunday.
      3.   Permits shall be obtained in accordance with procedures set forth in
section
11-14-7 of this chapter.
   E.   Automobile Service Station Signs And Automobile Stations/Minimarts
Only: The following signs are permitted as accessory only to automobile service
stations, subject to the conditions specified below:
      1.   Racks for the orderly display of cans of engine oil may be located
on or at the ends of each pump island or adjacent to the station building.
      2.   Two (2) tire racks, not to exceed five feet (5') in height, six feet
(6') in length, and five feet (5') in depth, shall be permitted at each
gasoline or tire service station for the purpose of displaying new tire
castings. Such racks shall comply with all setback and yard requirements and
shall only advertise the products contained thereon.
      3.   Items for sale on the premises shall not be displayed within twenty
five feet (25') of any property line, and any display of such items must comply
with all applicable regulations. Products may be displayed under pump island
canopies or between pumps within the area of the pump island base.
      4.   One double faced sign presenting the pricing of gasoline products
sold upon the premises shall be permitted as follows:
         a.   Each sign shall not exceed ten (10) square feet per side.
         b.   No letter or numeral on any pricing sign shall exceed ten inches
by fourteen inches (10" x 14") in size.
         c.   No pricing sign shall exceed a height of five feet (5').
         d.   All pricing signs shall be located with a minimum setback of
fifteen feet (15') from any property line or from the back of the curb of an
adjacent access drive. In all cases, pricing signs shall be set back twenty
feet (20') from the back of the curb of an adjacent public street.
         e.   Pricing signs may be combined as part of the permitted
freestanding business identification sign. Total area of such a combined sign
shall not exceed forty five (45) square feet per side. All other provisions of
subsection B2 of this section shall apply. (Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992)
         f.   Pricing signs may contain numerals consisting of light emitting
diode (LED) light source technology. Only the numerals shall be allowed to
contain LED lighting. The only color permitted for the LED numerals shall be
amber. The LED lighting shall be equipped with the necessary technology to
modulate the intensity or brightness of the lighting to accommodate ambient
conditions, such that the numerals would be brighter during the daytime, and
less bright during the evening with lower light levels. The village may request
that the intensity of the LED lighting be reduced if there are concerns with
glare. (Ord. 2012-27, 6-11-2012)
   F.   Banner Signs; Temporary Banner Signs: Wall mounted temporary banner
signs shall be permitted as follows for individual businesses and shopping
centers with three (3) or more stores under unified control, provided such
individual businesses and shopping centers have a minimum frontage of two
hundred feet (200'):
      1.   Promotion: The following shall apply to temporary banner signs that
are intended to promote a special sale or event:
         a.   Temporary banner signs may be erected and displayed for no more
than sixty (60) calendar days in any one calendar year.
         b.   Display of temporary banner signs shall not exceed fifteen (15)
calendar days during any forty five (45) consecutive calendar day period.
         c.   The use of temporary banner signs shall be limited to four (4)
special sales or events per calendar year.
         d.   The maximum size of any temporary banner sign shall not exceed
five percent (5%) of the projected elevation of the storefront or store module
and shall not exceed one hundred fifty (150) square feet.
         e.   Two (2) temporary banner signs may be allowed for shopping
centers under unified control that occupy three (3) or more acres and have
access from two (2) or more public rights-of- way.
         f.   Temporary banner signs installed at storefront or store modules
shall be secured flat against the exterior building wall surface.
         g.   Temporary banner permit fee shall be charged as indicated in
section
10-1-2-3 of this Code. (Ord. 2016-22, 6-13-2016)
      2.   Seasonal Display: Banners may be displayed on existing poles in
customer parking lots for the purpose of celebrating the occasion of legal or
religious holidays, provided the following criteria are met. The seasonal
display of banners shall be allowed in addition to that permitted for special
sales or events as regulated by subsection F1 of this section:
         a.   Banners shall be double sided and shall not exceed six feet (6')
in height nor two and one-half feet (21/2') in width.
         b.   Not more than two (2) banners shall be allowed per pole. (Ord.
92-38, 6-22-1992)
         c.   Banners shall have a vertical clearance of nine feet (9') above
grade from a sidewalk or landscaped area and twelve feet (12') above the grade
of a parking lot, drive aisle or public right-of-way, unless written approval
is obtained from the Building Commissioner.
         d.   Banners shall not project higher than eighteen feet (18') above
grade, unless written approval is obtained from the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
         e.   Any banner which becomes torn or tattered while being displayed
shall be immediately replaced or removed. (Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992; amd. 2012
Code)
      3.   Approval: No banner may be erected in the Village without obtaining
written approval from the Building Commissioner.
      4.   Required Submittals: The following shall be submitted to the
Building Commissioner for review and approval, not less than fifteen (15) days
prior to the intended date of display:
         a.   A letter which describes the organization seeking approval for
banner display, the purpose of the banners, duration of display, and any other
information determined to be appropriate by the Building Commissioner. (Ord.
92-38, 6-22-1992; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
         b.   Drawing of proposed banner, including dimensions, colors, copy,
and materials.
         c.   Details for mounting banners which demonstrate that banners will
comply with required vertical grade clearance and maximum height regulations
set forth in subsections F2c and F2d of this section.
         d.   Site plan showing proposed location of banner display.
         e.   Payment of an application fee and security deposit in amounts to
be determined by the Village Board of Trustees 1 , said security deposit to be
refunded when banners are removed within the specified time period. When
banners are displayed beyond the duration allowed by this subsection, the
deposit shall be forfeited to the Village. (Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992; amd. 2012
Code)
   G.   Awning Or Canopy Signs: Letters may be painted or otherwise permanently
affixed to any permissible awning or canopy, subject to the following
conditions:
      1.   Lettering and/or symbols shall not project above, below, or beyond
the physical dimensions of the awning or canopy.
      2.   Awning or canopy sign area shall count toward the total wall sign
area permitted under subsection A3 of this section.
   H.   Changeable Copy: Changeable copy shall be permitted for churches in
accordance with subsection 11-14-10C4 of this chapter and shall be allowed on
freestanding and wall signs for public agencies and theaters, provided the sign
area does not exceed that allowed by the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 92-
38, 6-22-1992)
   I.   Feather Signs: Feather signs shall be permitted as follows for
individual businesses and shopping centers:
      1.   Promotion: The following shall apply to feather signs that are
intended to promote a special sale, event or business:
         a.   Feather signs may be erected and displayed for no more than
twenty eight (28) calendar days in any one calendar year.
         b.   Display of feather signs shall not exceed seven (7) calendar days
during any forty five (45) consecutive calendar day period.
         c.   The use of feather signs shall be limited to four (4) occurrences
per calendar year.
         d.   The width of a feather sign shall not project any more than two
feet (2') from the pole to which it is attached, and be no taller than eight
feet (8') from grade, at the point of installation.
         e.   Two (2) feather signs may be allowed for each business or tenant,
however in no case shall any shopping center containing more than two (2)
tenants or tenant spaces, display or install more than four (4) feather signs
in total, at any given time.
         f.   Content displayed on a feather sign shall be limited to a
specific event or sale, and shall not be permitted to advertise a specific
product or service.
         g.   No portion of any feather sign may obstruct, extend or otherwise
project into or onto any public right-of-way. All feather signs must be wholly
contained on private property. (Ord. 2016-22, 6-13-2016)
         h.   Any tenant wishing to install feather signs, must first obtain
written approval from the landlord before installing such sign. All signs shall
be marked with their first day of display and the last day of display that is
permitted by this Code, using the form provided by the Building Department and
prominently displayed in the window of the business for which the sign is
advertising. (Ord. 2016-22, 6-13-2016; amd. Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
         i.   Any business or shopping center installing the maximum allowed
number of feather sign(s), as set forth in this subsection, shall be prohibited
from installing any additional temporary signs otherwise permitted by this
section.
         j.   Feather signs as described in this section, shall not be subject
to a fee. (Ord. 2016-22, 6-13-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-1-2-3 of this Code for application fee.
11-14-12: SIGNS IN O-D OFFICE DISTRICTS:
The following signs are permitted in office districts, subject to the
requirements of this chapter and to the conditions specified below:
   A.   Freestanding Signs: Freestanding signs shall be permitted as follows:
      1.   There shall be a maximum of one such sign for each office complex.
      2.   The maximum size for a freestanding sign shall be thirty five (35)
square feet.
      3.   Freestanding signs shall not exceed nine feet (9') in height.
      4.   Freestanding signs shall be located with a minimum setback of
fifteen feet (15') from any property line or from the back of the curb of an
adjacent access drive. In all cases, freestanding signs shall be set back
twenty feet (20') from the back of the curb of an adjacent public street.
      5.   Freestanding signs may be illuminated. The illumination of such
signs shall be only during the regular hours of business operation. (Ord. 92-
38, 6-22-1992)
      6.   Where specifically allowed in a unified shopping center or planned
development, a logo may be permitted, and it shall be approximate in size to
the character of a letter on the sign. (Ord. 2017-08, 3-13-2017)
   B.   Wall Signs: In lieu of a freestanding sign, business identification
wall signs shall be permitted, subject to the following conditions: (Ord. 92-
38, 6-22-1992)
      1.   There shall be a maximum of one such wall sign for each business
establishment; provided, however, that a maximum of two (2) such signs shall be
permitted when the business establishment to which the sign refers has more
than one business frontage. For purposes of this subsection B1, a "business
frontage" shall mean a public right-of-way, a customer access drive, or a
customer parking lot which serves the commercial establishment. (Ord. 92-38, 6-
22-1992; amd. 2012 Code)
      2.   Subject to subsection B1 of this section, a maximum of one wall sign
shall be permitted for each office building housing multiple business
establishments and sharing a common building entrance, regardless of the number
of business establishments within said building. However, a maximum of two (2)
wall signs shall be permitted if the building has more than one business
frontage, as per subsection B1 of this section. (Ord. 2008-14, 3-24-2008; amd.
2012 Code)
      3.   The maximum size of any business identification wall sign shall not
exceed five percent (5%) of the front building facade area to a maximum of one
hundred (100) square feet.
      4.   Business identification signs may be illuminated. (Ord. 92-38, 6-22-
1992)
11-14-13: SIGNS IN R-R HOTEL-MOTEL RESORT AND RECREATIONAL DISTRICTS:
The following signs are permitted in Hotel-Motel Resort and Recreational
Districts, subject to the requirements of this chapter and to the conditions
specified below:
   A.   Freestanding signs shall be permitted as follows:
      1.   There shall be a maximum of one such sign for each motel or hotel;
provided, however, that two (2) such signs shall be permitted when the hotel-
motel use is located on a corner lot.
      2.   Freestanding signs shall not exceed thirty five (35) square feet in
area per side.
      3.   Freestanding signs shall not exceed nine feet (9') in height.
      4.   Freestanding signs shall be located with a minimum setback of
fifteen feet (15') from any property line or from the back of the curb of an
adjacent access drive. In all cases, freestanding signs shall be set back
twenty feet (20') from the back of the curb of an adjacent public street.
      5.   Freestanding signs may be illuminated.
   B.   In lieu of a freestanding sign, business identification wall signs
shall be permitted, subject to the following conditions:
      1.   There shall be a maximum of one such wall sign for each business
establishment; provided, however, that a maximum of two (2) such signs shall be
permitted when the business establishment to which the sign refers is located
on a corner lot.
      2.   The maximum size of any business identification wall sign shall not
exceed five percent (5%) of the front building facade area to a maximum of one
hundred (100) square feet.
      3.   Business identification signs may be illuminated. (Ord. 92-38, 6-22-
1992)
11-14-14: SIGNS IN M-1 MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS:
The following signs are permitted in manufacturing districts, subject to the
requirements of this chapter and to the conditions specified below:
   A.   Freestanding Signs: Freestanding signs shall be permitted as follows:
      1.   There shall be a maximum of one such sign for each industrial use;
provided, however, that two (2) such signs shall be permitted when the
industrial use is located on a corner lot.
      2.   Freestanding signs shall not exceed thirty five (35) square feet in
area per side.
      3.   Freestanding signs shall not exceed nine feet (9') in height.
      4.   Freestanding signs shall be located with a minimum setback of
fifteen feet (15') from any property line or from the back of the curb of an
adjacent access drive. In all cases, freestanding signs shall be set back
twenty feet (20') from the back of the curb of an adjacent public street.
      5.   A freestanding sign may be illuminated.
   B.   Wall Signs: In lieu of a freestanding sign, business identification
wall signs shall be permitted, subject to the following conditions:
      1.   There shall be a maximum of one such wall sign for each business
establishment; provided, however, that a maximum of two (2) such signs shall be
permitted when the business establishment to which the sign refers is located
on a corner lot.
      2.   The maximum size of any business identification wall sign shall not
exceed five percent (5%) of the front building facade area to a maximum of one
hundred (100) square feet.
      3.   Business identification signs may be illuminated. (Ord. 92-38, 6-22-
1992)
11-14-15: INSPECTIONS:
Every new sign in the Village shall be subject to a general inspection;
electrical inspection, if necessary; footing inspection; and any other
inspection(s) deemed necessary by the Building Commissioner. The Building
Commissioner shall authorize or conduct subsequent periodic inspections as he
deems necessary for the purpose of ascertaining whether a sign requires removal
or repair. (Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
11-14-16: MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
Every sign in the Village, regardless of whether any permit is required for
such sign, shall be maintained in a safe, presentable and good structural
condition at all times, including the replacement of nonfunctioning, broken or
defective parts, painting, repainting, using same or like color as approved by
existing permit, cleaning, and any other acts required for the maintenance of
such sign. All signs and sign supports shall be kept painted, or otherwise
treated, to prevent rust, rot or deterioration. (Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992)
11-14-17: DIAGRAMS:
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2104.gif]
The dark outline around each structure shows the projected elevation of a
building face or wall area upon which the sign area is based. Where permitted,
a wall sign may comprise up to five percent (5%) of the building facade,
provided it does not exceed an area of one hundred (100) square feet. A second
wall sign may be allowed if the business is located on a corner lot or relates
to a customer access drive or parking lot. Section
11-14-3, definition of "facade area", and subsection 11-14-11A3 of this chapter
include standards for wall signs and should be consulted before an application
for a sign permit is submitted.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2106.gif]
Sign area is based upon the calculation of the gross surface area within the
smallest single, continuous rectangle which can be formed around the extreme
limits of both letters and any graphics which may be included as part of the
sign. The three (3) examples presented above show how the area of a wall sign
should be calculated, but are intended to serve as general guidelines. Section
11-14-3 of this chapter defines "area of sign" and should be consulted before
an application for a sign permit is submitted.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2108.gif]
Temporary window signs cannot exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the total
display glass area of the building facade in which such signs are displayed.
These signs should be limited to the advertisement of a retail promotion or
special sale or event, and should be removed immediately upon termination of
the sale or event. Temporary window signs should be neatly crafted and
arranged.
This graphic illustration of temporary window signage is intended only to serve
as a general guideline.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2110.gif]
Wall signs for individual tenants in a shopping center should be unified in
design:
Individual letters are required.
Signs should not exceed five percent (5%) of the storefront facade (maximum
allowable size is 100 square feet).
Letters should not crowd roofline, canopy (if any), or adjacent signs.
Signs should be both horizontally and vertically centered on the sign frieze.
Letter color and lightness or darkness should contrast with the background wall
for readability.
Letter styling should be coordinated so that it is harmonious.
Light levels should be consistent along the facade.
These graphics are intended to serve only as general guidelines for tenant wall
signage. Consult subsection 11-14-11A6 of this chapter before submitting an
application for a sign permit.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2112.gif]
Freestanding signs, thirty five (35) square feet in area, may be installed to
identify restaurants and service stations, in addition to wall signage
otherwise allowed by this chapter. Freestanding signs may also be permitted for
offices, provided a freestanding sign is used in lieu of wall signage. Because
this graphic is intended to serve only as a general guideline for signage,
subsection 11-14-11B of this chapter should be consulted before submitting an
application for a sign permit.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2114.gif]
Freestanding signs are also permitted for the purpose of identifying planned
developments, subdivision or retail commercial developments of three (3) acres
or more in size. Because sign area varies for residential and commercial uses,
subsection 11-14-9C of this chapter should be consulted before submitting an
application for a sign permit. Said subsection also contains design guidelines
for landscaping and lighting.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2116.gif]
These graphics are intended to serve only as general guidelines for
freestanding signage. Please refer to subsections 11-14-9C and 11-14-11B of
this chapter for applicable standards before submitting an application for a
sign permit.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2118.gif]
These graphics are intended to serve only as general guidelines. Consult
subsections 11-14-9C and 11-14-11B of this chapter for applicable standards
before submitting an application for a sign permit. (Ord. 92-38, 6-22-1992)
CHAPTER 15
ANTENNA STRUCTURES AND EARTH SATELLITE STATIONS
SECTION:
11-15-1: Intent And Purpose
11-15-2: Application, Interpretation And Compliance
11-15-3: Definitions
11-15-4: Accessory Use
11-15-5: Permit Requirements
11-15-6: Regulations In All Districts
11-15-7: Regulations In Residential Districts
11-15-8: Regulations In Nonresidential Districts
11-15-9: Authorized Variations
11-15-10: Penalties
11-15-11: Appendices
11-15-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
   A.   It is the intent of this chapter to provide rules and regulations for
the size, placement and screening of antenna structures/earth satellite
stations within the village.
   B.   The village has already taken numerous actions as part of a
comprehensive strategy to create an aesthetically pleasing environment through
extensive regulations pertaining to signage, landscaped public rights of way,
landscaped setbacks and perimeter yards of zoning lots in business districts,
screening of off street parking and loading facilities, and screening of
rooftop mechanical equipment.
   C.   The physical characteristics of antenna structures/earth satellite
stations make it necessary and essential to regulate such devices in order to
further the aesthetic and safety objectives of the village, specifically to:
      1.   Promote the public health, safety and welfare of the community;
      2.   Provide sufficient space in appropriate locations for such
residential and commercial use of antenna structures/earth satellite stations;
and
      3.   Promote an orderly visual environment and protection of adjacent
property values through screening of antenna structures/earth satellite
stations from adjacent properties and public and private rights of way. (Ord.
92-77, 11-23-1992)
11-15-2: APPLICATION, INTERPRETATION AND COMPLIANCE:
   A.   This chapter shall not apply to any antenna structure/earth satellite
station that was erected or which was approved by the village prior to the
effective date hereof; provided, however, that this chapter shall apply if the
location of such an antenna structure/earth satellite station is changed, or if
such an antenna structure/earth satellite station is increased in size or
height, or if such antenna structure/earth satellite station is modified or
repaired and the cost of such modification or repair exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the value of the antenna structure/earth satellite station. Before the
location of an antenna structure/earth satellite station for which a permit has
been issued can be changed, and before the size or height of an antenna
structure/earth satellite station for which a permit has been issued can be
increased, a new antenna structure/earth satellite station permit must be
obtained.
   B.   The specific terms and conditions of this chapter shall prevail against
other existing ordinances of the village to the extent that there might be any
conflict.
   C.   Except for the limitation of subsection B of this section, the
development of the subject property is subject to all terms and conditions of
applicable ordinances and regulations of the village including, without
limitation, this title and the building codes, subdivision regulations and
regulations concerning the construction and design of public improvements.
(Ord. 92-77, 11-23-1992)
11-15-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
ANTENNA: A device, other than an earth satellite station, used for transmitting
or receiving microwaves, radio waves (including, but not limited to, radio and
television signals) and other electromagnetic energy signals.
ANTENNA STRUCTURE: The combination of an antenna and antenna tower.
ANTENNA TOWER: Any mast, pole, tripod or similar structure utilized to support
an antenna.
EARTH SATELLITE STATION: An apparatus or device which includes a main
reflector, subreflector, feed, amplifier and support structure that has been
designed for the purpose of transmitting and/or receiving of microwave,
television, radio, satellite, or other electromagnetic energy signals into or
from outer space, but does not include conventional television, radio and
amateur radio antennas.
HEIGHT: Either:
   A.   The vertical distance measured from the ground level or to the top of a
ground supported antenna structure/earth satellite station in either
residential or nonresidential districts, when the antenna structure/earth
satellite station is extended to its fullest height; or
   B.   The distance measured from the surface of the roof to the top of the
antenna structure/earth satellite station in a nonresidential district, when
the antenna structure/earth satellite station is extended to its fullest
height.
MAIN REFLECTOR: That part of an earth satellite station which, absent any
protective covering, is dish shaped, parabolic, spherical or conical in
configuration and design and which has been designed for the reception and/or
transmission of microwave, television, radio or other electromagnetic energy
signals.
PARAPET: The extension of the main walls of a building above the roof level.
VILLAGE: The municipal corporation of Bloomingdale, Illinois, including its
associated elected and appointed officials, officers and staff. (Ord. 92-77,
11-23-1992)
11-15-4: ACCESSORY USE:
An antenna structure/satellite station shall be permitted in any zoning
district as an accessory use, subject to the provisions contained in this
chapter. (Ord. 92-77, 11-23-1992)
11-15-5: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: The following shall not be constructed, erected or
maintained within the village unless an antenna structure/earth satellite
station permit has been issued by the village:
      1.   An earth satellite station;
      2.   A freestanding antenna structure; or
      3.   An antenna structure which is attached to a building and which
extends more than five feet (5') above the highest point of the building to
which the antenna is attached.
   B.   Application For Permit; Issuance:
      1.   An application for an antenna structure/earth satellite station
permit shall be filed with the village clerk on a form prescribed by the
president and village board of trustees. The following materials and
information shall accompany the application:
         a.   Site information, including:
            (1)   The names and addresses of the applicant and owner of the
property upon which the antenna structure/earth satellite station is to be
located;
            (2)   A copy of a plat of survey by a registered surveyor,
including a legal description of the subject property; and
            (3)   Pictures of the proposed location of the antenna structure/
earth satellite station, including its surroundings, and an illustration of the
proposed antenna structure/earth satellite station;
         b.   A copy of the manufacturer's specifications;
         c.   The name and address of the person or persons who will be
erecting, constructing or installing the antenna structure/earth satellite
station;
         d.   A certified statement from a technologically qualified
representative of the manufacturer or an independent engineer indicating:
            (1)   Any technological reasons why the antenna structure/earth
satellite station must be located at a particular point on the property, or
indicating any limitations as to its specific location on the lot; and
            (2)   Intended transmission/reception capabilities and type of data
transmitted/received and a statement of proposed measures to mitigate the
effects of any harmful signals which may be emitted from the antenna structure/
earth satellite station, if applicable, which may or may not include enclosing
the antenna structure/earth satellite station with a fence;
         e.   A site plan, if the antenna structure/earth satellite station is
ground supported in accordance with section
11-15-7 of this chapter, illustrating:
            (1)   Date, scale and north arrow;
            (2)   The exact location of the proposed antenna structure/earth
satellite station;
            (3)   The height of the proposed antenna structure/earth satellite
station and the diameter of the main reflector, if applicable;
            (4)   Location of utilities and overhead wires;
            (5)   The proposed direction in which the antenna structure/earth
satellite station will be faced, if applicable;
            (6)   Location and size of all buildings and structures, both
existing and proposed;
            (7)   Existing and proposed fencing, berms, plantings or other
barriers which will be used to provide protection and screening of the antenna
structure/earth satellite station from view of adjoining properties and public
or private rights of way;
            (8)   Yards and spaces between all structures; and
            (9)   Location and dimensions of all fences and walls.
         f.   Drawings and other site information, if the antenna structure/
earth satellite station is roof mounted in a nonresidential zoning district, in
accordance with section
11-15-8 of this chapter, illustrating:
            (1)   Date, scale and north arrow.
            (2)   The exact location of the proposed antenna structure/earth
satellite station.
            (3)   The height of the proposed antenna structure/earth satellite
station and the diameter of the main reflector, if applicable.
            (4)   Location of utilities and overhead wires.
            (5)   The proposed direction in which the antenna structure/earth
satellite station will be faced, if applicable.
            (6)   Location and size of all buildings and structures, both
existing and proposed.
            (7)   Elevations of the roof parapet and surface to which the earth
satellite station will be mounted; and
            (8)   Sightline drawings, if determined to be necessary by the
village.
         g.   Any other additional information that may be requested by the
village.
      2.   All applications for an antenna structure/earth satellite station
permit shall include a statement in writing by the applicant showing that the
proposed installation of the antenna structure/earth satellite station shall
conform to all standards and specifications contained in this chapter.
      3.   No permit for an antenna structure/earth satellite station in any
zoning district shall be issued unless all information required by this
subsection has been furnished by the applicant. (Ord. 92-77, 11-23-1992)
   C.   Fee And Deposit:
      1.   Permit Fee: A building permit fee as established by the village
board of trustees shall be paid by the applicant for an antenna structure/earth
satellite station permit.
      2.   Deposit:
         a.   In addition to the permit fee, the applicant shall agree to
deposit a sum as established by the village board of trustees to cover the cost
of review services provided by the village. (Ord. 92-77, 11-23-1992; amd. 2012
Code)
         b.   Any unused portion of the deposit shall be returned to the
applicant.
         c.   If the cost of review services exceeds the amount of deposit,
sufficient additional funds shall be deposited before an antenna structure/
earth satellite station permit shall be issued.
   D.   Conditions Of Permit: All antenna structures/earth satellite stations
must be constructed and maintained in accordance with any conditions that are
placed on the issuance of the antenna structure/earth satellite station permit.
(Ord. 92-77, 11-23-1992)
11-15-6: REGULATIONS IN ALL DISTRICTS:
The following regulations shall apply in all zoning districts:
   A.   Location And Number:
      1.   The specific location of an antenna structure/earth satellite
station shall be subject to the determination of the village. Placement shall
be based upon the ability to minimize visual impacts to any adjacent properties
or public rights of way, while at the same time maintaining sightlines required
for the operation of the antenna structure/earth satellite station;
      2.   Location of existing fences, berms, landscaping and/or structures
which would augment screening will be taken into consideration by the village
when determining the placement of an antenna structure/earth satellite station
on any lot;
      3.   Only one antenna structure/earth satellite station shall be
permitted on the applicant's property; and
      4.   All antenna structures/earth satellite stations shall be located so
that they do not constitute a potential hazard to utility lines.
   B.   Wires And Cables: All wiring and connecting cables between an antenna
structure/earth satellite station and the principal building shall be buried
underground.
   C.   Screening:
      1.   Views of ground supported antenna structures/earth satellite
stations from adjacent residential and institutional properties and public and
private rights of way shall be effectively screened on all sides through the
use of fences, berms, plant materials, or other structures as shown in
subsection 11-15-11A, figures 1, 2 and 3 of this chapter;
      2.   Plant materials to be used for screening shall consist of both tall
and low deciduous and evergreen plants, selected from an approved list of
materials as specified in subsection 11-15-11B of this chapter, unless the
written approval of the village is obtained. The placement of approved plant
materials shall be as shown in subsection 11-15-11A, figures 4 and 5 of this
chapter;
      3.   Existing plant materials may be incorporated into the required
screening of antenna structures/earth satellite stations with allowances for
such plant materials to be granted at the discretion of the village;
      4.   Plant materials shall be installed to achieve a six foot (6') high
screen and shall be spaced as specified in subsection 11-15-11B, tables 1 and 2
of this chapter;
      5.   All materials used for the purpose of screening must be maintained
in good condition in order to minimize the visibility of antenna structures/
earth satellite stations;
      6.   Proposed plans for effectively screening antenna structures/earth
satellite stations shall be subject to the review and approval by the village;
and (Ord. 92-77, 11-23-1992)
      7.   Plant materials to be used for screening shall be installed
immediately upon erection of the antenna structure/earth satellite station, or
if said plant materials cannot be installed due to inclement weather, the
applicant shall post a bond or cash deposit, per tree, in an amount to be
determined by the Building Commissioner, refundable upon tree installation.
(Ord. 92-77, 11-23-1992; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
   D.   Color And Advertising:
      1.   All antenna structures/earth satellite stations shall be neutral in
color and be compatible with the existing elements and characteristics of the
property; and
      2.   Advertising of any kind shall not be permitted on an antenna
structure/earth satellite station.
   E.   Use:
      1.   An antenna structure/earth satellite station in a residential
district shall only be used by residents of the principal building on the
applicant's property;
      2.   All antenna structures/earth satellite stations must be constructed
and maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications;
      3.   Any connections, by cable or otherwise, to adjacent properties shall
constitute a violation of the terms and conditions of this section and sections
11-15-7 and
11-15-8 of this chapter, and shall be subject to the provisions contained in
section
11-15-10 of this chapter; and
      4.   The construction and operation of an antenna structure/earth
satellite station shall fully comply with all applicable Federal and State
Statutes, regulations and requirements, including those pertaining to safety
levels of radio frequency and electromagnetic fields with respect to human
exposure. (Ord. 92-77, 11-23-1992)
11-15-7: REGULATIONS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
The following regulations shall apply in residential zoning districts:
   A.   Location: An antenna structure/earth satellite station shall be erected
only on the ground in a secure, nonmobile fashion, subject to the following:
      1.   Antenna structures/earth satellite stations shall be located in a
rear yard only, and shall not be closer to any property line than the height of
the antenna structure/earth satellite station, but never less than eight feet
(8') from any property line;
      2.   An anchor for a guywire or cable, however, may be located in an
interior side or rear yard, provided it is not closer than five feet (5') to
such property line, and it is clearly visible and protected to prevent injury;
      3.   Antenna structures/earth satellite stations shall be located in one
of three (3) areas within a rear yard:
         a.   Within an area entirely behind a principal building, but not more
than twenty feet (20') from the exterior wall of said principal building, as
measured from the pole/vertical support of the antenna structure/earth
satellite station to the principal building's wall (see subsection 11-15-11A,
figure 1 of this chapter);
         b.   Near the corner of a rear yard, so that the antenna structure/
earth satellite station is located no closer than the height of the antenna
structure/earth satellite station, but never less than eight feet (8') from the
side and rear lot lines. Distances shall be measured from the pole/vertical
support of the antenna structure/earth satellite station to the side and rear
lot lines (see subsection 11-15-11A, figure 2 of this chapter); and
         c.   Within an area on that side of an accessory structure which faces
the interior of the lot, but not more than fifteen feet (15') away from the
exterior wall of the accessory structure, as measured from the pole/vertical
support of the antenna structure/earth satellite station to the exterior wall
of the accessory structure (see subsection 11-15-11A, figure 3 of this
chapter).
   B.   Size:
      1.   The height of an antenna structure/earth satellite station shall not
exceed fifteen feet (15'); and
      2.   The diameter of the main reflector of an earth satellite station
shall not exceed twelve feet (12'). (Ord. 92-77, 11-23-1992)
11-15-8: REGULATIONS IN NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   Earth Satellite Stations:
      1.   In business, manufacturing, office, hotel-motel resort and
recreational, and business park zoning districts, an earth satellite station
may be erected either on the ground or on the roof of the principal building,
in a secure, nonmobile fashion. If the earth satellite station is to be ground
mounted, the regulations in section
11-15-7 of this chapter shall apply. If an earth satellite station is to be
roof mounted, it shall be subject to the following:
         a.   It shall be fully screened from public view on all sides of the
building. Screening shall be accomplished by the roof or parapet walls as shown
in section
11-15-11, figure 6 of this chapter. However, if the earth satellite station is
to be installed on a multi-tenant retail center, where roof mounted mechanical
equipment already exists, and screening has been provided on only three (3)
sides of the building, screening on the fourth side shall not be required. This
exception shall not, however, apply to single-tenant structures. (Ord. 92-77,
11-23-1992)
         b.   The earth satellite station shall be so constructed and installed
to withstand the wind load, ice load and other forces, as provided under the
village building code, and in that respect, shall be subject to the review and
approval of the village.
         c.   All applications shall include certification by an engineer,
registered in the state of Illinois, that the proposed installation complies
with those standards listed in the village building code. Furthermore, written
documentation of such compliance, including load distributions within the
building's support structure, shall be furnished. (Ord. 92-77, 11-23-1992; amd.
2012 Code)
      2.   However, if the earth satellite station is to be installed on a
multi-tenant retail center where roof mounted mechanical equipment already
exists and screening has been provided on only three (3) sides of the building,
screening on the fourth side shall not be required. This exception shall not,
however, apply to single-tenant structures.
   B.   Antenna Structures: In business, manufacturing, office, hotel-motel
resort and recreational, and business park zoning districts, a ground supported
antenna structure may be erected subject to the following:
      1.   The height shall not exceed forty feet (40'); and
      2.   The antenna tower, or base, shall be screened subject to subsection
11-15-6C of this chapter. (Ord. 92-77, 11-23-1992)
11-15-9: AUTHORIZED VARIATIONS:
   A.   The planning and zoning commission shall decide upon authorized
variations of the provisions of this chapter and shall grant them only in the
specific instances where there are demonstrated practical difficulties or
particular hardships in implementing the regulations of this chapter. (Ord. 92-
77, 11-23-1992; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
   B.   Any individual, firm, or corporation applying for a variation shall be
subject to the procedures contained in section
11-3-6 of this title; except, that the applicant shall not be required to pay
any additional review fees as stated in subsection 11-15-5C2 of this chapter.
(Ord. 92-77, 11-23-1992)
   C.   The decision by the planning and zoning commission to grant a variation
in the regulations specified in sections
11-15-6,
11-15-7 and
11-15-8 of this chapter shall be based upon the criteria listed below: (Ord.
92-77, 11-23-1992; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
      1.   Whether the proposed antenna structure/earth satellite station will
have an adverse effect upon the ability of the persons who own, occupy or
reside on nearby properties to use and enjoy their properties;
      2.   Whether the antenna structure/earth satellite station will
constitute a hazard to the safety of persons or property;
      3.   Whether the proposed antenna structure/earth satellite station will
have an adverse effect on the value of nearby properties;
      4.   Whether the proposed antenna structure/earth satellite station has
been adequately screened from view of adjacent properties and public and
private rights of way; and
      5.   Whether the proposed antenna structure/earth satellite station will
be detrimental to the public welfare. (Ord. 92-77, 11-23-1992)
11-15-10: PENALTIES:
Any person causing or allowing a violation of the terms and conditions of this
chapter to occur shall, upon conviction, be punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. In addition, the village may pursue such
other remedies as shall be appropriate to prevent the violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 92-77, 11-23-1992; amd. 2012 Code)
11-15-11: APPENDICES:
   A.   Appendix A, Diagrams:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2120.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2122.gif]
   B.   Appendix B, Plants Permitted For Screening:
   TABLE 1. TALL SCREENING PLANT MATERIAL1
Plant Species Spacing On Center (In Feet)
Plant Species                                      Spacing On Center (In Feet)
Austrian pine                                      12 to 16
Cockspur hawthorn (shrub form)                     10 to 14
Dark green arborvitae (Thuja occidentalis "Nigra") 8 to 10
Flowering crabapple (shrub form)                   8 to 10
River birch (clump form)                           8 to 10
Scotch pine                                        12 to 16
Washington hawthorn (shrub form)                   8 to 10
White pine                                         12 to 14
Winterking hawthorn (shrub form)                   10 to 14
 
Note:
   1.    May be installed on a berm to achieve a 6 foot high screen.
   TABLE 2. LOW SCREENING PLANT MATERIAL
Plant Species Spacing On Center (In Feet)
Plant Species             Spacing On Center (In Feet)
Arrowwood viburnum        4
Claveys dwarf honeysuckle 4
Denisformis yew           3
Hetzi juniper             4
Late blooming lilac       3
Mugo pine                 4
Peking cotoneaster        3
Red twig dogwood          4
Spreading Japanese yew    5
Winged euonymus           4
 
(Ord. 92-77, 11-23-1992)
CHAPTER 16
TREE PRESERVATION 1
SECTION:
11-16-1: Purpose And Intent
11-16-2: Definitions
11-16-3: Tree Removal Permit Required; Exceptions
11-16-4: Preservation And Removal Application Procedures And Requirements For
Trees On Private Property
11-16-5: Emergency Tree Removals
11-16-6: Responsibility For Providing And Maintaining Trees
11-16-7: Penalties
11-16-8: Appeals
11-16-9: Conflicting Provisions
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 8, chapter 2 of this code for tree regulations on public
  property.
11-16-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The provisions of this chapter have been established for the preservation of
existing trees within the village. The intent of this chapter is to:
   A.   Encourage the protection of the reasonable maximum number of trees
early in the planning and site development process, while allowing for the
reasonable development of land within the village according to the village
comprehensive land use plan.
   B.   Preserve and protect the reasonable maximum number of mature trees on
private property in the village, while allowing for the reasonable development
of land within the village according to the village comprehensive land use
plan.
   C.   Establish requirements for tree replacements on applicable private
property when permits for tree removal are obtained through procedures set
forth in this chapter. (Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996)
11-16-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. Where applicable, words used
in the present tense include the future, words in the plural include singular,
and words in the singular include the plural. The word "shall" is mandatory and
not merely directory.
CALIPER: Refers to the diameter of a tree trunk, measured in inches. For the
purpose of this chapter, caliper shall be taken six inches (6") above the
ground up to, and including, four inch (4") caliper trees, and twelve inches
(12") above the ground for larger sizes. Caliper is generally associated with
nursery stock for new plantings.
COMMON AREA: That portion of a planned development that includes land,
amenities, easements, and associated landscaping that has been designated on a
plan or plat of subdivision and conveyed to a condominium or homeowners'
association for its administration, maintenance and use.
CRITICAL ROOT ZONE: The area inscribed by an imaginary circular line on the
ground beneath a tree, having at its center point the center of the trunk of
the tree and a radius equal to one foot (1') for every inch of diameter at
breast height.
DEVELOPMENT: Means and refers to any proposed physical change in the use of
character of land including, but not limited to, the replacement of any
structure or site improvements on land. When appropriate to the context,
"development" may refer to the act of issuing any building permit.
DIAMETER AT BREAST HEIGHT (dbh): The diameter of the trunk of a tree, measured
in inches, at a point four and one-half feet (41/2') above ground level or
grade. This point of measurement shall be used for established mature trees.
LANDSCAPE EASEMENT: A landscaped area intended to enhance the appearance of a
planned development and/or provide screening from public rights of way that has
been designated on a plan or plat of subdivision and is maintained by a
condominium or homeowners' association.
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT: A parcel of land, as specified by ordinance, developed
according to plan as a single entity, and containing one or more structures
with appurtenant common areas.
PROPERTY OWNER: The person owning property or a parcel of land as shown by the
County Auditor's plat of DuPage County, Illinois.
REMOVE OR REMOVAL: The causing or accomplishing of the actual physical removal
of a tree or the effective removal through damaging, poisoning, or other direct
or indirect action resulting in, or likely to result in, the death of a tree.
SITE: That parcel of land for which a tree removal permit is sought.
TREE: A large, woody plant having one or several self- supporting stems or
trunks and numerous branches; may be classified as deciduous or evergreen.
TREE PRESERVATION PLAN: A written plan having text and/or graphic illustrations
indicating the methods which are to be used to preserve existing trees during
construction.
TREE REMOVAL PERMIT: The permit required by this chapter in order to remove any
tree within the corporate limits of the Village of Bloomingdale.
VILLAGE: The Village of Bloomingdale, DuPage County, Illinois. (Ord. 96-12, 3-
25-1996)
11-16-3: TREE REMOVAL PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: A tree removal permit shall be required, per the
procedure defined in section
11-16-4 of this chapter, to directly or indirectly cut down, destroy, remove,
move, or effectively destroy, from any nonresidential planned development,
common area or landscape easement in residential planned developments that are
visible from an adjoining street, residentially zoned property one or more
acres in area, or nonresidential property regardless of size:
      1.   Any live tree with a trunk size of six inches (6") in diameter or
larger, as measured four and one-half feet (41/2') above ground level; or
      2.   Any live two (2) or more trees with an aggregate trunk size of
twelve inches (12") in diameter or larger, as measured four and one-half feet
(41/2') above the ground.
   B.   Failure To Obtain Permit: Failure to obtain a tree removal permit prior
to removing trees will result in fines; required tree replacements; and/or
suspension of permits issued for a parcel of land, according to criteria in
section
11-16-7 of this chapter.
   C.   Emergencies: There may be times, however, when trees must be
immediately removed by the Village or property owner to eliminate immediate
threats to public or private property or public safety. The ability to remove a
tree under these circumstances is addressed under section
11-16-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996)
11-16-4: PRESERVATION AND REMOVAL APPLICATION PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS FOR
TREES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
Subsection A of this section provides procedures and requirements for tree
preservation and tree removal permits related to rezoning, subdivision, site
plan approval and/or building permits. Because the Village finds it is in the
best interests of the community to preserve and protect all trees from
unnecessary or unreasonable damage and destruction, procedures and requirements
have also been developed to regulate trees on private property when rezoning,
subdivision, site plan approval or building permits are not required. These
regulations are presented in subsection B of this section.
   A.   Rezoning, Subdivision, Site Plan Approval And/Or Building Permit: Every
effort shall be made to retain existing trees by integrating them into site and
landscape plans for rezoning, subdivisions, planned developments, and proposals
for individual lot development. Trees shall not be removed without first
obtaining a tree removal permit according to the following procedures and
criteria: (Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996; amd. 2012 Code)
      1.   Tree Removal Permit Application And Fee:
         a.   Applications for tree removal permits subject to this subsection
may be obtained from the Building Department, and, upon completion, submitted
to the Building Commissioner. The Building Commissioner, or appointed designee,
shall be responsible for reviewing applications and issuing permits. No
building or site development permits shall be issued until such time as there
is compliance with the terms and conditions of this chapter, and a tree removal
permit has been issued according to procedures set forth in this subsection.
(Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
         b.   The application for a tree removal permit shall be accompanied by
the following:
            (1)   Name of applicant.
            (2)   Commonly known address of the lot or property where the tree
(s) sought to be removed is located.
            (3)   A written statement indicating the reasons for removal of the
tree(s).
            (4)   A tree identification plan, according to subsection A2 of
this section.
            (5)   A tree preservation plan, as required under subsection A5 of
this section.
            (6)   Name and address of contractor or other person who is
proposed as having responsibility for tree removal.
         c.   A fee as established by the Village Board of Trustees shall be
charged for each tree removal permit to cover the cost of staff review 1 . A
single permit may authorize the removal of more than one tree but shall only
apply to a single parcel of land. (Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996; amd. 2012 Code)
      2.   Tree Identification Plan:
         a.   Applicability:
            (1)   A plan which identifies existing trees shall be submitted to
the Building Commissioner as a part of the site plan review or plat approval
process for subdivisions, planned developments, and the construction of
residential, commercial, manufacturing and institutional buildings on
individual lots; and
            (2)   Where site plan or plat approval is not required by this
title or the Village subdivision control ordinance, the tree identification
plan shall be submitted with drawings presented to the Building Commissioner
for site development and building permits. (Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996; amd. 2012
Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
         b.   Plan Requirements: The tree identification plan shall:
            (1)   Be superimposed on the proposed grading plan and shall
identify the location, size, condition and species of all trees on the property
and existing trees that are twenty five feet (25') beyond all property lines
which have a diameter at breast height (dbh) that is six (6) or more inches;
            (2)   Identify all trees with a dbh six (6) or more inches in size
that are proposed to be removed; and
            (3)   Identify all groups (2 or more) of trees with an aggregate
trunk size of twelve inches (12") in diameter or larger, as measured four and
one-half feet (41/2') above grade, which are proposed to be removed.
      3.   Tree Preservation Requirements:
         a.   Every effort shall be made to preserve trees with a dbh that is
six (6) or more inches, or groups (2 or more) of trees with an aggregate trunk
size of twelve inches (12") in diameter or larger, as measured four and one-
half feet (41/2') above grade, that are illustrated on the tree identification
plan. The Village has the right to require an individual lot owner or developer
to modify the proposed development as may be necessary to preserve existing,
mature trees that substantially contribute to the aesthetics of the area or
provide screening, shade, slope stabilization or wildlife habitat. Development
modifications that may be required include, but are not limited to:
            (1)   Reconfiguring the proposed site plan including building
location(s), street network and/or parking layout;
            (2)   Reducing the intensity of development; or (Ord. 96-12, 3-25-
1996; amd. 2012 Code)
            (3)   Increasing the intensity of development on that portion of a
property that does not include trees identified for preservation. Exceptions
that may be required from the bulk regulations of the underlying zoning and/or
subdivision control ordinances to accommodate the development shall, however,
be presented to the Planning and Zoning Commission and Village Board for review
and approval at a public hearing. (Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996; amd. 2012 Code; Ord.
2014-48, 10-27-2014)
         b.   The Building Commissioner, or appointed designee, shall evaluate
existing trees and proposed site development and shall, in conjunction with the
individual lot owner or developer, determine which trees shall be preserved.
All trees identified for preservation shall be preserved and protected
according to procedures and requirements set forth in subsection A5 of this
section.
         c.   The Building Commissioner, or appointed designee, shall also
determine which trees may be removed and replaced, due to one or more of the
following conditions: (Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-
13-2017)
            (1)   Necessity to remove trees in order to:
               (A)   Provide for essential grade changes;
               (B)   Provide for surface water drainage and utility
installations;
               (C)   Reasonably maximize the property development potential
while remaining consistent with the goals and objectives of the Village
Comprehensive Land Use Plan and this chapter;
               (D)   Locate proposed building(s), structure(s), required
parking, or access drive(s) without causing unreasonable economic hardship; and
               (E)   Observe reasonable forestry practices regarding the
number, species and location of healthy trees the parcel will support.
            (2)   Necessity to remove trees which:
               (A)   Pose a safety hazard to pedestrian or vehicular traffic or
threaten to cause disruption of public services;
               (B)   Pose a safety hazard to buildings, both existing and
proposed;
               (C)   Are diseased or weakened by age, storm, fire or other
injury; and
               (D)   Are fast growing, short lived, softwood trees. These
include:
Common Name Botanical Name
Common Name    Botanical Name
Box elder      Acer negundo
Mountain ash   Sorbus species
Mulberry       Morus alba
Poplar         Populus species
Siberian elm   Ulmus pumila
Silver maple   Acer saccharinum
Tree of heaven Ailanthus species
Willow         Salix species
 
(Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996; amd. 2012 Code)
      4.   Required Tree Replacement: Unless otherwise approved by the Building
Commissioner, appointed designee, or the Village Board, trees which have been
specified for removal for one or more reasons set forth in subsection A3 of
this section shall be replaced according to the following: (Ord. 96-12, 3-25-
1996; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
         a.   Replacement trees shall either:
            (1)   Equal or exceed the size of the tree(s) removed; or
            (2)   Consist of smaller trees, not less than three inches (3") in
caliper, as measured six inches (6") above grade, which, in combination, equal
the size of the original tree(s); and
         b.   In no instance shall more than three (3) 3-inch caliper trees be
required to replace any single tree, of any size, that will be removed. The
Village finds this necessary to avoid unreasonable crowding of trees on the
property that could otherwise occur if trees were replaced according to the
formula specified in subsection A4a of this section. (Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996;
amd. 2012 Code)
         c.   Species selected for replacement trees shall be limited to the
following, unless written approval from the Building Commissioner, or appointed
designee, is obtained: (Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42,
11-13-2017)
Common Name Botanical Name
Common Name           Botanical Name
Arborvitae species    Thuja species
Bald cypress          Taxodium distichum
Black walnut          Jualans nigra
Buckeye               Aesculus species
Common horse chestnut Aesculus hippocatanum
Crabapple             Malus species
Ginkgo                Ginkgo biloba (male)
Hackberry             Celtis species
Hawthorne             Crataegus species (thornless)
Heldrich pine         Pinus heldrichi var. leucodermis
Homestead elm         Ulmus carpinifolia 'Homestead'
Kentucky coffee tree  Gymnocladus dioicus
Linden                Tilia species
London planetree      Platunus x acerifolia
Maple1                Acer species
Oak species           Quercus species
Pear species          Pyrus species
Shagbark hickory      Curya ovata
Spruce species        Picea species
Tulip tree            Liriodendron tulipitera
 
Note:
         1.    Excluding silver maple and box elder.
         d.   Species selection shall be submitted for approval. Each species
shall constitute only fifteen percent (15%) of the total site tree replacement
requirements.
         e.   The location, size and species of all required replacement trees
shall be depicted on both the final landscape and grading plans. (Ord. 96-12,
3-25-1996; amd. 2012 Code)
         f.   Replacement trees may, at the discretion of the Building
Commissioner, appointed designee, Planning and Zoning Commission and/or Village
Board, be used for perimeter yard landscaping and screening on the subject
property that may otherwise be required by other ordinances of the Village.
(Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014; Ord. 2017-42,
11-13-2017)
      5.   Tree Preservation Plan:
         a.   A tree preservation plan, establishing the methods to be used for
protecting and preserving trees, shall be submitted once trees have been
identified for preservation according to the process and criteria specified in
subsections A3 and A4 of this section. This plan shall be submitted
simultaneously with other documents prepared for final plan or final plat
approval and/or building and site development permits, according to procedures
set forth in applicable sections of this title and the Village subdivision
control ordinance. (Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996; amd. 2012 Code)
         b.   The tree preservation plan shall be subject to review and
approval by the Building Commissioner, or appointed designee. The plan shall
also be approved by the Village Board if it is part of a rezoning or
development proposal that is reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Commission and
Village Board according to established procedures for site plan review. (Ord.
96-12, 3-25-1996; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014; Ord. 2017-42, 11-
13-2017)
         c.   The preservation plan shall be superimposed on the proposed
grading plan and shall show, at a minimum, the following:
            (1)   Size, species, condition and location of each tree approved
for preservation;
            (2)   Protective fencing at the critical root zone of a tree or
trees identified for preservation, or to the edge of disturbance, to protect
trees from grading, and from root compaction by construction equipment. If
construction is allowed to occur within the critical root zone of one side of a
tree proposed for preservation, protective fencing shall be extended beyond the
critical root zone of the other side of the tree in order to maximize
protection of the root system. The area of the root system protected by
protective fencing shall, in no case, be less than the total area of the
critical root zone of the tree; (Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996; amd. 2012 Code)
            (3)   Trees which are to be preserved, but which could be
negatively affected during the construction process. The crowns and roots of
all such trees shall, unless otherwise determined by the Building Commissioner,
or appointed designee, be pruned by a qualified arborist, according to the tree
pruning standards set by ANSI 2100 Code, to: (Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996; amd. 2012
Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
               (A)   Compensate for root loss due to construction; and
               (B)   Minimize damage to root systems;
            (4)   Areas where crushed limestone or other materials detrimental
to the health of trees would be stored. Placement of these materials within a
tree's drip line or at higher elevations where drainage would be routed toward
a tree or stand of trees proposed for preservation shall be prohibited; and
            (5)   Areas proposed for washing concrete trucks. These areas
should be designed and located such that wash water is directed into a silt
trap and not allowed to be routed toward trees approved for preservation.
         d.   Approval of a development proposal, final plan or final plat of
subdivision shall be withheld until all of the information required by this
chapter has been submitted, and the evaluation of existing trees on the subject
property has been completed by the Village. (Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996; amd. 2012
Code)
         e.   The Village shall, at its discretion, have the right to retain a
professional tree consultant/forester to review tree preservation plans and to
submit a written report to the Building Commissioner. All expenses incurred by
the Village for the use of the tree consultant shall be reimbursed by the
developer.
      6.   Review Period:
         a.   After completion of the applicable public hearing or public
meeting process, the Building Commissioner, or appointed designee, shall,
within approximately three (3) weeks of the receipt of all final plans and
support documentation set forth in subsections A1 through A5 of this section,
either: (Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
            (1)   Issue a tree removal permit; or
            (2)   Provide written documentation to the applicant which fully
indicates why the request for a tree removal permit has been denied. (Ord. 96-
12, 3-25-1996; amd. 2012 Code)
         b.   Additional time, however, may be required if the tree
identification and tree preservation plans are being reviewed and evaluated by
the Planning and Zoning Commission and Village Board as part of a rezoning,
subdivision, or site plan approval process. (Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996; amd. 2012
Code; Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
      7.   Inspection:
         a.   Site grading and other development shall not occur until such
time as the Building Commissioner, or appointed designee, inspects the site to
verify that tree protection measures are in place according to the approved
plan. (Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
         b.   The Village shall have the right to inspect the subject property
at any time during the construction process in order to verify that the
developer and contractor have protected trees according to the approved tree
preservation plan.
         c.   In the event that a tree identified for preservation is destroyed
or damaged during construction, such tree shall be replaced according to
criteria set forth in subsection A4 of this section. (Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996;
amd. 2012 Code)
      8.   Development Ordinances: On sites designated for tree protection or
tree preservation, the following standard provision will be included in the
development ordinance regulating the site:
Should any trees specifically designated to be preserved, maintained and
protected on the subject property be removed, destroyed or injured in such a
fashion that its death is imminent, the owner or other party in interest of the
subject property shall be required to replace the removed, destroyed or injured
tree(s) with additional trees of like kind that have the same monetary value as
the tree removed, destroyed or injured. The value of the tree removed,
destroyed or injured shall be determined by the Trunk Formula Method equation
below as published in the Guide for Plant Appraisal as published by the
International Society of Arboriculture Council Of Tree and Landscape
Appraisers.
V = B x S x C x L, where:
V = Removed tree value
B = Basis tree value as determined by the Building Commissioner or his designee
S = Tree species rating as determined by the Building Commissioner or his
    designee
C = Tree condition rating as determined by the Building Commissioner or his
    designee
   1.00 = excellent
   0.80 = good
   0.50 = fair
   0.30 = poor
    Tree location rating as determined by the Building Commissioner or his
L = designee after considering the site, contribution and placement of the
    subject tree
 
This formula may be updated from time to time by the Building Commissioner
based on information from the International Society of Arboriculture.
Replacement trees shall be in addition to any trees required to be planted
pursuant to the approved landscape plan. The number and placement of
replacement trees shall be approved by Village staff, prior to installation.
(Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
   B.   Unrelated To Rezoning, Subdivision, Site Plan Approval And/Or Building
Permits: The Village finds that it is in the best interests of the community to
preserve existing trees on private property. Therefore, any live tree with a
diameter at breast height (dbh) that is six (6) or more inches in size, or two
(2) or more live trees with an aggregate trunk size of twelve inches (12") in
diameter or larger, as measured four and one-half feet (41/2') above grade,
shall not be removed from: nonresidential planned developments; common areas or
landscape easements in residential planned developments that are visible from
an adjoining street; residentially zoned properties which are one or more acres
in area; or any nonresidential property, regardless of size, without first
obtaining a tree removal permit according to the following procedures and
criteria: (Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996)
      1.   Tree Removal Permit Application And Fee:
         a.   Applications for tree removal permits subject to this subsection
may be obtained from the Building Department, and, upon completion, submitted
to the Building Commissioner. The Building Commissioner, or appointed designee,
shall be responsible for reviewing applications and issuing a tree removal
permit. (Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996; amd. Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
         b.   The application for a tree removal permit shall be accompanied by
the following:
            (1)   Name of applicant;
            (2)   Commonly known address of lot or property where the tree(s)
sought to be removed is located;
            (3)   A written statement indicating the reason for removal of the
tree(s);
            (4)   A drawing of the site, drawn to scale, which shows:
               (A)   The location, size, species and condition of the tree(s)
for which a tree removal permit is sought; and
               (B)   The location, size and species of all required replacement
trees;
            (5)   A written description of other trees on the lot, including
size, condition, number and species; and
            (6)   Name and address of the contractor or other person who is
proposed as having responsibility for tree removal. (Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996)
         c.   A fee as established by the Village Board of Trustees shall be
charged for each tree removal permit to cover the cost of staff review 2 . A
single permit may authorize the removal of more than one tree but shall only
apply to a single parcel of land. (Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996; amd. 2012 Code)
      2.   Justification For Permit:
         a.   The Building Commissioner, or appointed designee, shall determine
which trees may be removed and replaced based on, but not limited to, one of
the following reasons: (Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996; amd. Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
            (1)   The tree is dying;
            (2)   The tree poses a safety hazard to pedestrian or vehicular
traffic or threatens to cause disruption of public services;
            (3)   The tree poses a safety hazard to buildings, both existing
and proposed;
            (4)   The tree is diseased or weakened by age, storm, fire or other
injury;
            (5)   The tree is a willow, silver maple, or other fast growing,
short lived, softwood tree (see subsection A3c(2) of this section);
            (6)   Removal of the tree is consistent with reasonable forestry
practices regarding the number, species and location of healthy trees the
parcel will support;
            (7)   Removal of the tree will avoid or alleviate an economic
hardship or hardship of another nature on either the lot or the residence
located on the lot. (Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996)
         b.   A tree removal permit shall also be required for the removal and
transplanting of a tree with a dbh six (6) or more inches to another location.
The Building Commissioner, or appointed designee, shall have the authority to
deny the application if it is determined that the tree cannot reasonably be
expected to survive the transplant procedure unless suitable replacement is
provided according to subsection A4 of this section.
      3.   Required Tree Replacement:
         a.   Unless otherwise approved by the Building Commissioner, or
appointed designee, or the Village Board, trees which have been specified for
removal for one or more reasons set forth in subsection B2 of this section,
shall be replaced according to subsection A4 of this section.
         b.   The Village encourages the replacement of trees for which a tree
removal permit has been issued, even though the Building Commissioner, or
appointed designee, may not require such replacement.
      4.   Review Period: The Building Commissioner, or appointed designee,
shall, within approximately three (3) weeks of the receipt of all plans and
support documentation set forth in subsection B1 of this section either: (Ord.
96-12, 3-25-1996; amd. Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
         a.   Issue a tree removal permit; or
         b.   Provide written documentation to the applicant which fully
indicates why the request for a tree removal permit has been denied. (Ord. 96-
12, 3-25-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-1-2-3 of this Code.
2 1. See section
  10-1-2-3 of this Code.
11-16-5: EMERGENCY TREE REMOVALS:
   A.   Emergency Removal By Owner: In the event that any tree shall endanger
the public health, safety, welfare or property and requires immediate removal
without delay (e.g., a tree which has been struck by lightning or which has
been blown over): (Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996; amd. 2012 Code)
      1.   Verbal authorization may be given by the Building Commissioner, or
appointed designee, and the tree removed without obtaining a written permit as
herein required. Such verbal authorization shall later be confirmed in writing
by the Building Commissioner upon written application by the applicant; or
      2.   If neither the Building Commissioner nor the appointed designee is
available to issue such verbal authorization, it shall be lawful to proceed
with the cutting of the tree to the extent necessary to avoid immediate danger
or hazard. However, the person causing the cutting shall report the action
taken in writing to the Building Commissioner within forty eight (48) hours.
(Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
      3.   Emergency removal shall be subject to replacement per subsection 11-
16-4A4 or B3 (as applicable) of this chapter.
   B.   Emergency Removal By Village:
      1.   The Village shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or
diseased trees on private property within the Village when such trees
constitute a hazard to life and property or harbor insects or disease which
constitute a potential threat to other trees within the Village: (Ord. 96-12,
3-25-1996; amd. 2012 Code)
         a.   The Building Commissioner, or appointed designee, shall issue
written notice of such condition to the owner of the property upon which the
tree is located and request immediate removal of the tree. The notice shall be
sent by certified mail.
         b.   If the person to whom the notice is issued fails to respond
within ten (10) days of the receipt of the certified mail, the Building
Commissioner, or appointed designee, may remove the tree at the expense of the
owner. (Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
         c.   The cost of removing the tree may be recovered by the Village
through any appropriate legal proceeding against the property. The cost of
removal shall be deemed to include any and all incidental expenses, as well as
all direct and indirect costs incurred by the Village in connection with
removal of the tree, including legal fees, court costs, and related trial
expenses. (Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996; amd. 2012 Code)
         d.   The Building Commissioner, or appointed designee, may cause any
tree which is an immediate threat to the health, welfare and/or safety of
persons or property to be removed summarily and without notice. (Ord. 96-12, 3-
25-1996; amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
11-16-6: RESPONSIBILITY FOR PROVIDING AND MAINTAINING TREES:
All trees preserved or replaced as required by this chapter shall be provided
and maintained by the owner of the property. (Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996)
11-16-7: PENALTIES:
   A.   Penalty: Any person, firm, or private or public corporation failing to
adhere to the provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punishable
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996; amd. 2012 Code)
   B.   Replacement Trees Required: Replacement trees shall be planted
according to the formula set forth in subsection 11-16-4A4 of this chapter
whenever trees subject to the terms and conditions of this chapter have been
removed without a tree removal permit by the property owner, the property
owner's contractor, agent, or employee, or any individual or entity authorized
to be on the property owner's property. (Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996)
   C.   Suspension Of Permit: The Village may suspend any and all permits
issued for a parcel of land if the Village determines that the provisions of
this chapter are not being adhered to. Suspension of permits shall be repealed
only at such time as it is determined by the Building Commissioner, or
appointed designee, that the owner of the property, or his or her designee, is
in compliance with the approved tree preservation plan. (Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996;
amd. 2012 Code; Ord. 2017-42, 11-13-2017)
11-16-8: APPEALS:
   A.   Any applicant may appeal the denial of a tree removal permit, and a
person or entity deemed by the Building Commissioner to be in violation of this
chapter may appeal the suspension of permits by the Village, by filing a
written appeal with the Village Clerk within thirty (30) days of the denial of
a permit or suspension of permits. (Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996; amd. 2012 Code; Ord.
2017-42, 11-13-2017)
   B.   The appeal shall be referred to the Planning and Zoning Commission who
shall, in all instances, make the final administrative determination,
consistent with procedures set forth in section
11-3-7 of this title. (Ord. 96-12, 3-25-1996; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
11-16-9: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
The specific terms and conditions of this chapter shall prevail against other
ordinances of the Village to the extent that there might be any conflict. (Ord.
96-12, 3-25-1996)
CHAPTER 17
ADULT USES 1
SECTION:
11-17-1: Definitions
11-17-2: Site Plan Review Required
11-17-3: Location
11-17-4: Liquor License Prohibited
11-17-5: Exterior Display
11-17-6: Existing Adult Uses
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 4, chapter 8 of this code.
11-17-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
ADULT BOOKSTORE: An establishment having, as a substantial or significant
portion of its sales or stock in trade, books, magazines, films for sale or for
viewing on the premises by use of motion picture devices or by coin operated
means, and periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas; or an establishment with a segment or
section devoted to the sale or display of such materials; or an establishment
that holds itself out to the public as a purveyor of such materials based upon
its signage, advertising, displays, actual sales, presence of video preview or
coin operated booths, exclusion of minors from the establishment's premises or
any other factors showing the establishment's primary purpose is to purvey such
material.
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CABARET: A public or private establishment which: a)
features topless dancers, strippers, "go-go" dancers, male or female
impersonators, lingerie or bathing suit fashion shows; b) not infrequently
features entertainers who display specified anatomical areas; or c) features
entertainers who, by reason of their appearance or conduct, perform in a manner
which is designed primarily to appeal to the prurient interest of the patron or
features entertainers who engage in or are engaged in explicit simulation of
specified sexual activities.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A building or area used for presenting materials
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for
observation by patrons therein.
ADULT NOVELTY STORE: An establishment having a substantial or significant
portion of its sales or stock in trade consisting of toys, devices, clothing
"novelties", lotions and other items distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis on or use for specialized sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas or an establishment that holds itself out to the public as a purveyor of
such materials based upon its signage, advertising, displays, actual sales,
exclusion of minors from the establishment's premises or any other factors
showing the establishment's primary purpose is to purvey such material.
ADULT USE: Adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult entertainment
cabarets, adult novelty stores and other similar uses.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: A. Less than completely and opaquely covered:
      1.   Human genitals;
      2.   Pubic region;
      3.   Buttock;
      4.   Female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the
areola; and
   B.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: A. Human genitals in the state of sexual
stimulation or arousal;
   B.   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; and
   C.   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttock or female breasts. (Ord. 98-05, 2-23-1998)
11-17-2: SITE PLAN REVIEW REQUIRED:
Prior to the issuance of any permit for the construction or occupancy of an
adult use, the applicant for said permit(s) must first proceed through the site
development and plan review procedure set forth in chapter 4 of this title.
However, site plan review for an adult use shall be considered by the planning
and zoning commission within sixty (60) days of filing. After consideration by
the planning and zoning commission, findings shall be forwarded to the village
board and considered within sixty (60) days of the planning and zoning
commission's consideration. The planning and zoning commission and village
board may place conditions on the development and operation of the adult use
related to site plan, floor plan, construction materials, lighting, parking and
circulation, ingress and egress, landscaping and screening, and signage in
order to assure that the design and operation of the adult use is in
conformance with all village ordinances and is compatible with surrounding
uses. (Ord. 98-05, 2-23-1998; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
11-17-3: LOCATION:
Adult uses are permitted in a business or manufacturing district, including
planned unit development business or manufacturing areas, provided:
   A.   No adult use shall be located within eight hundred feet (800') of any
property which is zoned or used for residences, churches, schools, parks or
other adult use.
   B.   No adult use shall be permitted to operate within three hundred feet
(300') of the centerline of Lake Street, Army Trail Road or Gary Avenue. (Ord.
98-05, 2-23-1998)
11-17-4: LIQUOR LICENSE PROHIBITED:
No liquor license shall be issued and no liquor shall be sold or consumed on
the premises of any adult use. (Ord. 98-05, 2-23-1998)
11-17-5: EXTERIOR DISPLAY:
No adult use shall be conducted in any manner that permits the observation of
any material depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas from any public way or from any property not
registered as an adult use. This section shall apply to any display,
decoration, sign, show window or other opening. (Ord. 98-05, 2-23-1998)
11-17-6: EXISTING ADULT USES:
Any adult use which existed lawfully, but which became nonconforming upon the
effective date hereof, may be continued as hereinafter provided:
   A.   Upon written notice from the village to the owners or interests therein
that any building, structure, lot or regulated use is nonconforming under the
provisions of this title, the owners or interests therein shall, within two (2)
months from the date of such notice, apply to the village clerk for a
certificate of nonconformance.
   B.   Failure to apply for a certificate of nonconformance within two (2)
months of the notice provided in subsection A of this section will require the
amortization of the nonconformance within six (6) months of said notice.
   C.   Nonconformances that have applied for a certificate of nonconformance
from the village clerk shall be discontinued within one year of the notice
provided in subsection A of this section. (Ord. 98-05, 2-23-1998)
CHAPTER 18
PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
11-18-1: Purpose
11-18-2: General Requirements
11-18-3: Exceptions
11-18-4: Application And Approval
11-18-5: Issuance Of Permit
11-18-6: Validity Of Permit
11-18-7: Performance Insurance
11-18-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   Planned developments are of such substantially different character from
other special uses that specific and additional standards and exceptions are
hereby established to govern the recommendations of the planning and zoning
commission and the action of the village board of trustees. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-
1969; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
   B.   These regulations are designed to provide for the integrated
development of substantial land areas into planned developments considering all
the elements of planning; providing adequate relationship between structures
and land uses; relaxing specific provisions of applicable district
requirements; but at the same time providing for adequate space, light, air,
use and bulk limitations. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
11-18-2: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
A planned development shall conform to the following requirements:
   A.   Be consistent with the purpose and intent of this title.
   B.   Be laid out and developed as a unit in accordance with an integrated
overall design, as approved and authorized by the board of trustees.
   C.   The number of dwelling units erected shall not exceed the number
permitted by the regulations of the district in which it is located unless an
exception is permitted as stipulated under section
11-18-3 of this chapter.
   D.   The yards and open spaces adjoining the boundaries of the project shall
not be less than the yard requirements of the district in which it is located.
   E.   No building is permitted to exceed the height limit of the district by
more than ten percent (10%).
   F.   If more intensive uses (i.e., uses other than which the district is
zoned, such as community business district usage in R-3 general residence
districts) are granted than are permitted by the district regulations, there
must be clear evidence that such uses are needed to service the project,
provided the evidence shall show:
      1.   That the uses permitted by such exceptions are necessary or
desirable and are appropriate with respect to the primary purpose of the
development;
      2.   That the uses permitted by such exception are not of such a nature
or so located as to exercise a detrimental influence on the development nor on
the surrounding neighborhood;
      3.   That not more than ten percent (10%) of the gross floor area of such
development shall be devoted to the uses permitted by said exception;
      4.   That in a planned industrial development, such additional uses
allowed by exception shall conform with the performance standards of the
district in which the development is located as set forth in this title; (Ord.
69-12, 4-23-1969)
      5.   That the use exceptions so allowed are recorded on the zoning
district maps by appropriate symbols or by reference to documents on file with
the building and zoning official; (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969; amd. 2012 Code)
      6.   Where the planned development is to be located in a residential
district, no use exceptions shall be allowed unless the size of the planned
development exceeds twenty (20) acres.
   G.   The amount of off street parking must be adequate to serve the needs of
the projects, and the village board may require more off street parking than is
otherwise required by this title.
   H.   If any open space or recreational facility is to be used solely by the
residents of the project, adequate provisions shall be made for assessments
against the property within the project for their proper improvement,
maintenance and operation.
   I.   Underground utilities, including communications and electric systems,
are required within the limits of a planned development. Appurtenances to these
systems which can be effectively screened may be excepted from this requirement
if the village board finds that such exemption will not violate the intent or
character of the development.
   J.   The streets proposed must be suitable and adequate to carry anticipated
traffic and increased densities and must not overload the street network
outside the development. All ingress and egress streets must be constructed in
accordance with the subdivision code.
   K.   The planned development must be in accordance with the comprehensive
plan of the village.
   L.   The existing and proposed utility services must be adequate for the
population densities proposed. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
11-18-3: EXCEPTIONS:
In the case of any planned development, the planning and zoning commission may
recommend, and the village board may authorize, exceptions to the applicable
regulations of this title within the boundaries of such development; provided,
that the evidence shows: (Ord. 2007-20, 5-24-2007; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-
2014)
   A.   That such exception shall be solely for the purpose of encouraging a
desirable living environment no less beneficial to the residents or occupants
of such development, as well as of neighboring properties, than would be
obtained under the bulk regulations of this title for buildings developed on
separate zoning lots.
   B.   That maximum parcel coverage in a residential planned development shall
not exceed twenty five percent (25%) in the residential zoning districts. (Ord.
69-12, 4-23-1969)
   C.   Other standards for density, yard regulations, parking, loading and
screening for a planned development shall be governed by the standards of the
residential, business or manufacturing zoning district(s) most similar in
nature and function to the proposed planned development as determined by the
village board. Standards for public improvements shall be governed by the
applicable ordinances and laws of the village. Exceptions to these standards by
the village board are possible when they find that such exceptions are
warranted in terms of the total proposed development. However, in regard to
developments containing residential uses: (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969; amd. 2012
Code)
      1.   In no event shall the floor area ratio exceed more than thirty
percent (30%) over that prescribed in this title for the district in which it
is located.
      2.   In no event shall the minimum square footage per dwelling unit
requirements applicable to such districts be decreased by more than ten percent
(10%). A further decrease of not more than ten percent (10%) on the already
reduced square footage per dwelling unit may be permitted in the event that
parking facilities are provided either underground or in the building proper,
i.e., for each underground or on building parking space, an equivalent
reduction may be permitted to the allowable limit of ten percent (10%) before
specified. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
11-18-4: APPLICATION AND APPROVAL:
   A.   Tentative Approval:
      1.   The developer shall submit a tentative planned development to the
planning and zoning commission for an approval, in principle, and which the
commission shall approve prior to the submission of an application for approval
of a planned development special use permit. The written consent of all
property owners within the development shall be on file with the village before
study of a tentative planned development shall be commenced. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-
1969; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
      2.   Any tentative development plan shall be prepared and shall include
the following information presented in a general schematic fashion:
         a.   Proposed land uses, population densities and building
intensities.
         b.   Proposed circulation pattern indicating both public and private
streets and off street parking ratios.
         c.   Proposed parks, playgrounds, school sites and other open spaces.
         d.   A market analysis of proposed commercial uses if the property is
not zoned for commercial purposes at the time of submittal of the preliminary
development plan.
         e.   Delineation of the units to be constructed in progression if any.
         f.   Relation to future land use in the surrounding area and the
village comprehensive plan. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
      3.   Approval, in principle, of the tentative planned development shall
be limited to the general acceptability of the land uses proposed and the
interrelationships, and shall not be construed to endorse precise location of
uses, configuration of parcels, or engineering feasibility. The purpose of this
conference is to afford the developer an opportunity to avail himself of the
advice and assistance of the planning and zoning commission before incurring
the expense of a plan. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
   B.   Application For Approval For Special Use Permit: Any person or persons
owning lots or land within the village or any persons owning lots or land
outside the village coming under a preannexation agreement may apply to the
village board for approval of a planned development special use permit. The
development plan submitted after the preliminary conference shall include, as a
minimum, the following:
      1.   A topographic and boundary line map of the project, locating its
relationship to surrounding properties;
      2.   Pattern of public and private roads, driveways, parking facilities,
and intended design standards;
      3.   Size, area and location of lots or of proposed building groups;
      4.   Location, type and size of landscaping;
      5.   Use, type, size and location of structures;
      6.   Location of sewer and water facilities;
      7.   Architectural drawings and sketches illustrating the design and
character of proposed structures;
      8.   Location of recreational and open space area;
      9.   Existing and proposed storm drainage pattern;
      10.   Statistical data pertinent to a comprehensive evaluation of the
proposed development;
      11.   Organizational details of any property owners' association;
      12.   Aspects of the maintenance of common open space areas;
      13.   Schedule for the development of units to be constructed in
progression;
      14.   List of use and bulk exceptions requested;
      15.   Engineering feasibility studies as necessary; and
      16.   Relation to future land use in the surrounding area and the village
comprehensive plan. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
   C.   Public Hearing; Approval Or Denial Of Permit:
      1.   The planning and zoning commission shall hold a public hearing on
the application. The planning and zoning commission may approve or disapprove
the application or make recommendations regarding changes or revisions that it
deems desirable, and forward their report and recommendation to the village
board. Approval for each unit of the development by the village board shall be
valid for a period of eighteen (18) months from the date of approval of the
final plan of planned development. (Ord. 2011-10, 2-28-2011; amd. Ord. 2014-48,
10-27-2014)
      2.   There shall also be submitted with the final plan, a written
agreement of restrictions signed by the owners of the planned development
assuring the village that the development will be carried out in full
compliance with the final plan and within the time schedule of construction
submitted with the final plan. Once the plan is authorized by the village
board, no modification may be made without authorization of the village board.
(Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
11-18-5: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
Whenever the village board approves the final plan, the building and zoning
official shall issue the necessary permits for all of the project or for such
units thereof that are to be constructed. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969; amd. 2012
Code)
11-18-6: VALIDITY OF PERMIT:
If no construction has commenced within a period of eighteen (18) months from
the date of approval of the final plan, the permits shall be declared null and
void, and the project shall not be initiated unless it is resubmitted and
reapproved in the same manner that it was approved in the first instance. The
village board may, however, extend the period for commencing construction in
accordance with this section upon a showing of good and sufficient cause. (Ord.
2011-10, 2-28-2011)
11-18-7: PERFORMANCE INSURANCE:
At the time of the granting of the permit, the village board shall make
appropriate arrangements with the applicant which will ensure the
accomplishment at the scheduled times of the public improvements and grants of
easement shown on the approved final plan. (Ord. 69-12, 4-23-1969)
CHAPTER 19
FENCING AND SCREENING
SECTION:
11-19-1: Interpretation
11-19-2: Appeals And Variations
11-19-3: Definitions In Regulating Fence Or Screen Installations
11-19-4: Permitted Location Of Residential Fence And Screen Installations
11-19-4-1: Restrictions Applicable To All Yards
11-19-4-2: Corner Lot And Reverse Corner Lot
11-19-4-3: Corner Through Lot
11-19-4-4: Interior Lot
11-19-4-5: Interior Through Lot
11-19-4-6: Screens
11-19-5: Permitted Location Of Commercial Fence And Screen Installations
11-19-6: Old Town Preservation District
11-19-7: Fence And Screen Construction/Placement Requirements
11-19-8: Permits And Fees
11-19-9: Inspections
11-19-10: Nonconforming Structures
11-19-11: Conflicting Provisions
11-19-12: Violation; Penalty
11-19-13: Severability
11-19-14: Prior Violation
11-19-15: Construction Activity
11-19-16: Illustrations
11-19-1: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   In their interpretation and application the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public
health, safety, morals and welfare.
   B.   This chapter is intended to govern the erection, enlargement,
reconstruction, movement, or altering of fences and screens, as hereinafter
defined.
   C.   This chapter is not intended to modify or abrogate any easement,
covenant, homeowners' association regulations or other private agreement
setting forth fence or screen regulations provided that where the regulations
of this chapter are more restrictive, or impose higher standards or
requirements than such easements, covenants, homeowners' association
regulations or other private agreements, the requirements of this chapter shall
govern. A permit application submittal will not be reviewed for compliance
without prior written approval from a homeowners' association where regulations
exist for specific fence and/or screen installation.
   D.   The building commissioner is authorized to prepare guidance documents
as necessary to facilitate the enforcement of requirements as set forth herein.
(Ord. 2011-38, 11-14-2011)
11-19-2: APPEALS AND VARIATIONS:
Any appeal from any decision by the building commissioner or other authorized
representative hereunder, and any application for a variation, shall be made
pursuant to the applicable provisions of chapter 3, article A of this title.
(Ord. 2011-38, 11-14-2011)
11-19-3: DEFINITIONS IN REGULATING FENCE OR SCREEN INSTALLATIONS:
ARTERIAL ROAD, MAJOR: For determining fence height limitations as indicated
within these regulations, major arterial roads are as follows: Army Trail Road,
Bloomingdale Road, Gary Avenue, Glen Ellyn Road, Lake Street, Schick Road and
Springfield Drive.
ENTRY STRUCTURE: A partial fence or decorative wall, column(s), posts at the
frontage or entry point of a lot from the adjacent street, roadway or sidewalk
designating a point of entry at each side of a driveway or walkway leading to
the main building on a lot. Entry structures may also include a gate or gates
that provide a movable barrier across a driveway or walkway.
FENCE: A structure forming a boundary or barrier at final grade level, between
lots, between lots and a street, alley or roadway, or between portions of a lot
or lots, including, but not limited to, those used for screening, confinement,
protection, privacy or delineation.
FENCE, CHAINLINK/CYCLONE: A fence made of metal wire twisted together to form a
pattern. This type of fencing shall be required to have a green, brown or black
color protective finish or coating factory applied by the manufacturer. Slats
shall not be permitted. Approval shall be at the discretion of the building
commissioner.
FENCE, OPEN: A fence, including gates, which has over its entirety seventy
percent (70%) of the surface area in open space as viewed from an angle of
ninety degrees (90°) from the fence line.
FENCE, SNOW: A fence used to control or prevent the drifting of snow, causing
the drifting to occur at the boundary created by the fence rather than
randomly. Such fencing may consist of wood stripping connected by metal wire,
or heavy type perforated flexible plastic, attached to temporary stakes at
appropriate intervals to adequately support the temporary fencing.
FENCE, SOLID: A fence, including gates, which conceals from view from adjoining
properties, streets or alleys, activities conducted behind it.
FENCE, SPLIT RAIL: A fence comprised of horizontal rails between support posts.
FENCE/WALL: A structure, requiring a continuous structural foundation for
support, made of material similar or compatible to the main building on a lot.
LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the junction of, abutting on, or facing two (2)
intersecting streets or roadways; or a lot at the point of deflection in
alignment of a single street, the interior angle of which is one hundred thirty
five degrees (135°) or less. Lot lines fronting, abutting or facing the streets
shall be considered to be front lines. See section
11-19-16, illustration (B) of this chapter.
LOT, CORNER REVERSED: A lot the same as a corner lot except that its front lot
line with the greatest dimension is substantially a continuation of the front
lot lines of the interior lots to its rear, and its rear lot line adjoins or
abuts the side lot line of the lot to its rear. Lot lines abutting, fronting or
facing a street or roadway shall be considered to be front lot lines. See
section
11-19-16, illustration (G) of this chapter.
LOT, CORNER THROUGH: A lot which has a pair of opposite lot lines along two (2)
more or less parallel streets or roadways and has another lot line fronting or
facing another street or roadway and has its side lot line adjoining or
contiguous to another lot or lots. On a corner through lot, all lot lines
parallel to, fronting or facing any street or roadway shall be considered as
front lot lines. See section
11-19-16, illustration (D) of this chapter.
LOT, INTERIOR: Any lot, other than a corner lot, having a lot line fronting or
facing only one street. See section
11-19-16, illustration (A) of this chapter.
LOT, INTERIOR THROUGH: A lot which has a pair of opposite lot lines along two
(2) more or less parallel streets or roadways and which is not a corner lot. On
an interior lot, both lot lines parallel to, fronting or facing a street or
roadway shall be considered to be front lot lines. See section
11-19-16, illustration (C) of this chapter.
SCREEN: A structure constructed, erected or installed, which may include
vegetation planted for, including, but not limited to, the purpose of
concealing or obstructing the view of persons on either side of it. Screening
shall be a maximum of eight feet (8') in height or such lesser height to be
determined by the building commissioner. A screen if constructed, manufactured
or installed shall be a minimum of seventy five percent (75%) solid when viewed
at an angle of ninety degrees (90°) of the screen line.
SETBACK LINE, BUILDING: The distance between a lot line and a main/principal
building located on a lot, based on applicable residence zoning district yard
setback requirements.
YARD: An open space on the same lot with a main building, unoccupied and
unobstructed from its lowest level to the sky.
YARD, FRONT/CORNER LOT AND REVERSED CORNER LOT: The areas extending within and
along the front lot lines to the rear and side lot lines and then inward along
the rear and side lot lines to a point equal to that part of the main building
closest to the front lot lines, and then inward from the rear and side lot
lines to that part of the main building. See section
11-19-16, illustrations (B) and (G) of this chapter indicated as Front Yard
(Front) and Front Yard (Side) on the illustrations.
YARD, FRONT/CORNER THROUGH LOT: A corner through lot consists of three (3)
front yards as follows:
   A.   Front Yard (Front): The area extending across the front of the lot with
the least dimension and being contained within that front lot line, the front
of the main building, the interior side lot line and the opposite corner side
yard area. See section
11-19-16, illustration (D) of this chapter.
   B.   Front Yard (Rear): The area extending across the rear of the lot,
opposite from the front yard (front) and being contained within its front lot
line, the interior side lot line and the opposite front corner side yard area,
and for a minimum depth of a front yard as required for the applicable zoning
district. See section
11-19-16, illustration (D) of this chapter. Any corner through lot having a
depth of less than two hundred feet (200') shall be exempt from the
requirements of having a front yard (rear). See section
11-19-16, illustration (F) of this chapter.
   C.   Front Yard (Side): The area extending along the front of the lot with
the greatest dimension and contained between the front lot line (front) and the
front lot line (rear), the front lot line (side) and the main building. See
section
11-19-16, illustration (D) of this chapter.
YARD, FRONT/INTERIOR LOT: The area extending across the front of a lot and
being contained within the front lot line, the front of the main building and
the side lot lines. See section
11-19-16, illustration (A) of this chapter.
YARD, FRONT/INTERIOR THROUGH LOT: Interior through lots consist of two (2)
front yards as follows:
   A.   Front Yard (Front): The area extending across the front of the lot and
being contained within the front lot line, the side lot lines and the front of
the main building. See section
11-19-16, illustration (C) of this chapter.
   B.   Front Yard (Rear): The area extending across the rear of the lot,
opposite from the front yard (front) and being contained within its front lot
line, the side lot lines and for the minimum depth of a front yard as required
for the applicable zoning district. See section
11-19-16, illustration (C) of this chapter. Interior through lot having a depth
of less than two hundred feet (200') shall be exempt from the requirements of
having a front yard (rear). See section
11-19-16, illustration (E) of this chapter.
YARD, REAR/CORNER LOT AND REVERSED CORNER LOT: The area extending across the
rear of a lot and parallel to the street upon which the lot has its least
dimension. Such area shall be within and extending along the rear lot line to a
point equal to that part of the main building closest to the front (corner
side) lot line and then inward from the rear lot line to that part of the main
building, and from the rear lot line along the side lot line to a point equal
to that part of the main building closest to the rear lot line and then inward
from the side lot line to that point of the building. See section
11-19-16, illustrations (B) and (G) of this chapter.
YARD, REAR/CORNER THROUGH LOT: The area contained between the front yard (rear)
and the main building, and the interior side lot line and the front yard
(corner side). See section
11-19-16, illustration (D) of this chapter.
YARD, REAR/INTERIOR LOT: The area extending across the rear of a lot and being
contained within the rear lot line, the rear of the main building, the side lot
lines, and at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard. See section
11-19-16, illustration (A) of this chapter.
YARD, REAR/INTERIOR THROUGH LOT: The area remaining after determining the front
yard (rear) (see subsection B of the definition of Yard, Front/Interior Through
Lot) and being contained within the front yard (rear), the side lot lines and
the rear of the main building. See section
11-19-16, illustration (C) of this chapter.
YARD, SIDE/CORNER LOT AND REVERSED CORNER LOT: That area remaining after
establishing the front and rear yards (see definitions of Yard, Front/Corner
Lot And Reversed Corner Lot and Yard, Rear/Corner Lot And Reversed Corner Lot),
or that area extending along a side lot line and contained between the front
and rear yards, the main building and the side lot line. See section
11-19-16, illustrations (B) and (G) of this chapter.
YARD, SIDE/CORNER THROUGH LOT: The area extending along a side lot line and
contained between the side lot line and the main building, and the front yard
(front) and the rear yard. See section
11-19-16, illustration (D) of this chapter.
YARD, SIDE/INTERIOR LOT: The area extending along a side lot line and contained
between the front and rear yards, the side lot line and the main building. See
section
11-19-16, illustration (A) of this chapter.
YARD, SIDE/INTERIOR THROUGH LOT: The area extending along a side lot line and
contained between the side lot line and the main building and the front yard
(front) and the rear yard. See section
11-19-16, illustration (C) of this chapter.
Any words not defined by this section shall be construed in their general
accepted meanings as defined by the most recent edition of "Webster's
Dictionary", or equivalent reference source subject to approval by the building
commissioner. Illustrations incorporated in section
11-19-16 of this chapter are provided as a visual aid to the written
regulations. (Ord. 2011-38, 11-14-2011)
11-19-4: PERMITTED LOCATION OF RESIDENTIAL FENCE AND SCREEN INSTALLATIONS:
11-19-4-1: RESTRICTIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL YARDS:
   A.   No fence or screen shall be permitted in or on the property between the
front lot line and the street or roadway.
   B.   Permit shall be obtained prior to installation (see section
11-19-8 of this chapter). (Ord. 2011-38, 11-14-2011)
11-19-4-2: CORNER LOT AND REVERSE CORNER LOT:
   A.   Permitted Rear And Interior Side Yard Fences: Fences, open or solid,
not to exceed six feet (6') in height (exclusive of posts or ornamental objects
on posts not to exceed an additional 6 inches above the maximum allowable 6
foot fence height). Such fences shall not be permitted to extend closer to any
street or roadway than that part of the main building closest to the street or
roadway, and at least the minimum required depth of a front yard for the
applicable zoning district. See section
11-19-16, illustrations (B) and (G) of this chapter.
   B.   Permitted Lot Front Yard (Front And Side) Fences (Reverse Corner):
Fences shall not exceed forty two inches (42") in height (exclusive of posts or
ornamental objects on posts not to exceed an additional 6 inches above the
maximum allowable 42 inch height) and shall be at least seventy percent (70%)
open when viewed from an angle of ninety degrees (90°). See section
11-19-16, illustration (G) of this chapter. Chainlink fencing shall not be
permitted within a front (front and side) yard.
   C.   Permitted Lot Front Yards (Front And Side) Fences (Corner):
      1.   Front Yard (Front): Fences shall not exceed forty two inches (42")
in height (exclusive of posts or ornamental objects on posts not to exceed an
additional 6 inches above the maximum allowable 42 inch height) and shall be at
least seventy percent (70%) open when viewed from an angle of ninety degrees
(90°). See section
11-19-16, illustration (B) of this chapter. Chainlink fencing shall not be
permitted within a front yard.
      2.   Front Yard (Side): Fences shall not exceed forty eight inches (48")
in height (exclusive of posts or ornamental objects on posts not to exceed an
additional 6 inches above the maximum allowable 48 inch height) as indicated in
section
11-19-16, illustration (B) of this chapter and may be open or solid type
fencing. Exception to the maximum front yard (side) fence height limitation may
be granted by the building commissioner, not to exceed six feet (6') in height,
based on the presence of existing property fencing previously permitted to be
repaired or replaced, or due to property location along a major arterial road.
Evergreen landscaping shall be installed to buffer new fencing taller than
forty eight inches (48") in height as permitted by this exception.
   D.   Vision Obstructions Prohibited: Fences shall not be permitted on corner
lots if located within the area of a triangle, two (2) legs of which are a
distance of twenty feet (20') each, when measured along each of the
intersecting front lot lines and from a point where such lines intersect. See
section
11-19-16, illustration (H) of this chapter. (Ord. 2011-38, 11-14-2011)
11-19-4-3: CORNER THROUGH LOT:
   A.   Permitted Interior Side Yard Fences: Fences, open or solid, not to
exceed six feet (6') in height (exclusive of posts or ornamental objects on
posts not to exceed an additional 6 inches in height above the maximum
allowable 6 foot fence height). Such fences shall not be permitted to extend
closer to any street or roadway than the front building setback line or the
front of the main building, whichever is the farthest from the front lot lines.
See section
11-19-16, illustration (D) of this chapter.
   B.   Permitted Front Yard (Front, Corner Side And Rear) Fences:
      1.   Front Yard (Front And Rear): Fences not to exceed forty two inches
(42") in height (exclusive of posts or ornamental objects on posts not to
exceed an additional 6 inches above the maximum allowable 42 inch fence height)
and shall be at least seventy percent (70%) open when viewed from an angle of
ninety degrees (90°). Exception to this requirement may be granted by the
building commissioner based on the presence of existing property fencing
previously permitted due to unique lot conditions. Any corner through lot
having a depth of less than two hundred feet (200') shall be exempt from the
requirements of having a front yard (rear) and shall comply with subsection C
of this section. See section
11-19-16, illustration (F) of this chapter. Chainlink fencing shall not be
permitted within a front yard.
      2.   Front Yard (Side): Fences shall not exceed forty eight inches (48")
in height (exclusive of posts or ornamental objects on posts not to exceed an
additional 6 inches above the maximum allowable 48 inch height) in the front
yard (side), as indicated in section
11-19-16, illustration (D) of this chapter and may be open or solid type
fencing. Exception to the maximum front yard (side) fence height limitation may
be granted by the building commissioner, not to exceed six feet (6') in height,
based on the presence of existing property fencing previously permitted to be
repaired or replaced, or due to property location along a major arterial road.
Evergreen landscaping shall be installed to buffer new fencing taller than
forty eight inches (48") in height as permitted by this exception.
   C.   Permitted Rear Yard Fences: Fences, open or solid, not to exceed six
feet (6') in height (exclusive of posts or ornamental objects on posts not to
exceed an additional 6 inches above the maximum allowable 6 foot fence height)
for a lot having a depth of less than two hundred feet (200'). See section
11-19-16, illustration (F) of this chapter. Evergreen landscaping shall be
installed to buffer new fencing taller than forty eight inches (48") in height
as permitted by this exception.
   D.   Vision Obstructions Prohibited: Fences shall not be permitted on corner
through lots if located within the area of a triangle, two (2) legs of which
are a distance of twenty feet (20') each, when measured along each of the
intersecting front lot lines from a point where such lines intersect. See
section
11-19-16, illustration (I) of this chapter. (Ord. 2011-38, 11-14-2011)
11-19-4-4: INTERIOR LOT:
   A.   Permitted Rear And Side Yard Fences: Fences, open or solid, not
exceeding six feet (6') in height (exclusive of posts or ornamental objects on
posts not to exceed an additional 6 inches above the maximum allowable 6 foot
fence height). Such fences shall not be permitted to extend closer to any
street or roadway than the front building setback line or the front of the main
building, whichever is the farthest from the front lot line. See section
11-19-16, illustration (A) of this chapter.
   B.   Permitted Front Yard Fences: Fences not to exceed forty two inches
(42") in height (exclusive of posts or ornamental objects on posts not to
exceed an additional 6 inches above the maximum allowable 42 inch fence height)
and that are at least seventy percent (70%) open when viewed from an angle of
ninety degrees (90°). See section
11-19-16, illustration (A) of this chapter. Chainlink fencing shall not be
permitted within a front yard. (Ord. 2011-38, 11-14-2011)
11-19-4-5: INTERIOR THROUGH LOT:
   A.   Permitted Side Yard Fences: Fences, open or solid, not exceeding six
feet (6') in height (exclusive of posts or ornamental objects on posts not to
exceed an additional 6 inches above the maximum allowable 6 foot fence height).
Such fences shall not be permitted to extend closer to any street or roadway
than the front building line or the front of the main building, whichever shall
be the farthest from the front lot line. See section
11-19-16, illustration (C) of this chapter.
   B.   Permitted Front Yard (Front And Rear) Fences: Fences that do not exceed
forty two inches (42") in height (exclusive of posts or ornamental objects on
posts not to exceed an additional 6 inches above the maximum allowable 42 inch
height) and that are at least seventy percent (70%) open when viewed from an
angle of ninety degrees (90°). See section
11-19-16, illustration (C) of this chapter. Any interior through lot having a
depth of less than two hundred feet (200') shall be exempt from the
requirements of having a front yard (rear). See section
11-19-16, illustration (E) of this chapter. Chainlink fencing shall not be
permitted within a front yard.
   C.   Permitted Rear Yard Fences: Fences, open or solid, not to exceed six
feet (6') in height (exclusive of posts or ornamental objects on posts not to
exceed 6 inches above the maximum allowable 6 foot fence height) for a lot
having a depth of less than two hundred feet (200'). See section
11-19-16, illustration (E) of this chapter. Evergreen landscaping shall be
installed to buffer new fencing taller than forty eight inches (48") in height
as permitted by exception. (Ord. 2011-38, 11-14-2011)
11-19-4-6: SCREENS:
Residential screens may be permitted at the discretion of the building
commissioner. If permitted, a screen shall only be located in a rear yard with
the construction of the screen subject to review and approval by the building
commissioner. (Ord. 2011-38, 11-14-2011)
11-19-5: PERMITTED LOCATION OF COMMERCIAL FENCE AND SCREEN INSTALLATIONS:
   A.   Fences: Commercial fencing shall be subject to the requirements of this
code for site development and plan review. Permit shall be obtained prior to
installation (see section
11-19-8 of this chapter).
   B.   Screens: Commercial screens shall be subject to the requirements of
this code for site development and plan review. Permit shall be obtained prior
to installation (see section
11-19-8 of this chapter). (Ord. 2011-38, 11-14-2011)
11-19-6: OLD TOWN PRESERVATION DISTRICT:
Fencing or screening proposed to be installed within the old town preservation
district shall be subject to the regulations contained in chapter 11 of this
title specific to the district. Permit shall be obtained prior to installation
(see section
11-19-8 of this chapter). (Ord. 2011-38, 11-14-2011)
11-19-7: FENCE AND SCREEN CONSTRUCTION/PLACEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Material: Fences or screens proposed to be constructed of wood shall be
naturally resistant to insects and decay, or approved treated wood. No fence or
screen shall contain any barbed wire, electrification or be designed,
constructed or installed in any way to cause injury. Metallic fences shall have
a green, brown or black protective finish or coating applied by the
manufacturer, without slats, and shall not be permitted within a front yard.
Fence or screen materials and finish color are subject to final review and
approval by the building commissioner.
   B.   Footings: Constructed fence and screen support footings shall be a
minimum of forty two inches (42") in depth and are to be inspected prior to
concrete placement. Soil from fence posthole footing excavation is to be
removed from the property prior to the inspection for concrete placement.
   C.   Orientation: Constructed fences or screens shall have their finished
side (best or decorative) face the exterior of the lot.
   D.   Obstructions: No obstruction to the vision of vehicular or pedestrian
traffic, including, but not limited to, fencing and screening, shall be
permitted on corner lots if located within the area of a triangle, two (2) legs
of which are a distance of twenty feet (20') each when measured along each of
the intersecting front lot lines and from a point where such lines intersect.
See section
11-19-16, illustrations (H) and (I) of this chapter. No obstruction to the
vision of vehicular or pedestrian traffic shall be permitted at driveways,
parking access drives or sidewalks adjacent to vehicular traffic areas. The
bottom edge of solid fences or screens shall be a minimum of three inches (3")
above grade if necessary to provide for stormwater drainage.
   E.   Temporary Safety And Snow Fencing: Temporary safety fencing shall be
required to enclose construction and excavation sites large enough to be
considered a hazard or an attractive nuisance to the public. Temporary snow
fencing placed to prevent against the drifting of snow may be approved at the
discretion of the building commissioner. A fence permit is required for the
installation of any type of temporary fencing. At no time shall a temporary
fence installation as approved by permit fall into disrepair. As a condition of
each temporary fence permit, the village reserves the right to make repairs or
remove the fencing at the property owner's expense. In all cases temporary
fencing shall be removed based on the expiration date for the temporary fence
permit. Snow fencing, allowed only by permit, shall be installed no earlier
than November 1 and shall be removed no later than May 1 each year. (Ord. 2011-
38, 11-14-2011)
11-19-8: PERMITS AND FEES:
No person shall commence construction or installation of any type of fence or
screen, permanent or temporary, without first having obtained a permit. To
obtain a permit, the property owner or his representative shall file an
application on a form furnished by the village for that purpose. Application
shall include such plans, property survey, specifications and additional
information as required for proper representation of the proposed work, and to
ensure compliance with this chapter and all other applicable village codes and
ordinances. Fees associated with the construction or installation of a fence or
screen shall be assessed in accordance with the village of Bloomingdale permit,
fee and bond regulations ordinance. Fence installation contractors are to be
bonded and insured for the work to be performed. (Ord. 2011-38, 11-14-2011)
11-19-9: INSPECTIONS:
The building commissioner, or other authorized representative, is hereby
authorized and directed to periodically inspect fencing or screening regulated
by this chapter to ensure compliance with the requirements set forth herein.
If, after inspection, the building commissioner finds that the installation,
use or maintenance of a fence or screen does not meet the requirements and
regulations imposed by this chapter, said fence or screen installation shall be
removed from the property. Inspections during the construction or installation
of a fence or screen shall be performed based on the type of installation and
as required by the conditions of the permit. (Ord. 2011-38, 11-14-2011)
11-19-10: NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
No fence or screen not lawfully existing at the time of the adoption hereof
shall become or be made lawful solely by reason of the adoption of this
chapter; and to the extent and manner said unlawful fence or screen is in
conflict with the requirements of this chapter, said fence or screen remains
unlawful.
Any nonconforming fence or screen which existed lawfully at the time of the
adoption of this chapter or any amendment thereto, provided that all applicable
fees arising from the erection of such nonconforming fence or screen have been
paid to the village, may be continued subject to the provisions of section
11-19-9 of this chapter and this section. Ordinary repairs and alterations may
be made to a nonconforming fence or screen, but such nonconforming fence or
screen may not be enlarged, moved, or structurally altered, unless the fence or
screen is thereby made to conform to all the regulations set forth in this
chapter. It shall be unlawful to design, construct, alter, move, enlarge,
replace, repair, demolish, remove, use or maintain a fence or screen dangerous
to life or detrimental to health in the village. (Ord. 2011-38, 11-14-2011)
11-19-11: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
Where the restrictions of this chapter are either more restrictive or less
restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by the applicable village zoning
ordinance regulations and all amendments thereto, or by any other law,
ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation of any kind, the regulations which
are more restrictive, or which impose higher standards or requirements shall
govern. The specific terms and conditions of this chapter shall prevail against
any existing ordinance of the village that does not provide for specific fence
or screen regulations, except that safety barrier requirements within this code
regulating swimming pools, spas, hot tubs and portable or temporary pools shall
apply when pertaining to life safety requirements for safety barriers around
those installations. (Ord. 2011-38, 11-14-2011)
11-19-12: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating the terms and provisions of this
chapter shall be liable for a penalty in the amount of one hundred percent
(100%) of any unpaid fee and, in addition, shall be subject to a penalty of one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each violation. Each day that a violation of
this chapter occurs shall be deemed to be a complete and separate offense. In
addition, the appropriate authorities of the village may take such other action
as they deem proper to enforce the terms and provisions of this chapter,
including, without limitation, an action at law or in equity to compel
compliance with its terms. Any person violating the terms or provisions of this
chapter shall be subject, in addition to the foregoing penalties, to the
payment of court costs and reasonable attorney fees. (Ord. 2011-38, 11-14-2011)
11-19-13: SEVERABILITY:
If any portion of this chapter or of the regulations incorporated herein by
reference is declared or held to be invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such declaration or finding of invalidity shall not affect any
remaining portion of this chapter or the regulations incorporated herein which
may be given effect without such invalid provisions, and to that end the
provisions of this chapter are severable. (Ord. 2011-38, 11-14-2011)
11-19-14: PRIOR VIOLATION:
Neither the enactment of this chapter nor the repeal of any ordinance or parts
of ordinances as provided for herein shall be construed to affect or abate any
action or cause of action for violation of said prior ordinance or ordinances.
(Ord. 2011-38, 11-14-2011)
11-19-15: CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY:
This chapter shall not be construed to extend to or affect any construction
activity for which a permit was issued or application for permit filed prior to
the effective date hereof, except for fees not yet due or payable, unless the
building commissioner determines that any provisions of this chapter or the
regulations incorporated herein by reference should be applied for reasons of
public health and safety. (Ord. 2011-38, 11-14-2011)
11-19-16: ILLUSTRATIONS:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2124.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2126.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2128.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2130.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2132.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2134.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2136.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2138.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2140.gif]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfcda29fdbcaf81d5a36ed1b5f45da552b5f7973/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2142.gif]
(Ord. 2011-38, 11-14-2011)
CHAPTER 20
EXTERIOR LIGHTING
SECTION:
11-20-1: Purpose
11-20-2: Conformance With Applicable Codes
11-20-3: Applicability
11-20-4: Definitions
11-20-5: Formal Zoning Review Or Permit Application Submittal Requirements
11-20-6: Postconstruction Requirements
11-20-7: General Requirements
11-20-8: Nonconforming Lighting
11-20-9: Exceptions
11-20-10: Severability
11-20-11: Abrogation
11-20-12: Installations In Planned Developments
11-20-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to: a) increase overnight health, safety,
utility, and security; b) promote business development by setting standards for
ambient lighting in parking lots and in other locations; c) conserve energy and
resources; and d) minimize glare, light trespass, and sky glow. (Ord. 2013-19,
4-22-2013)
11-20-2: CONFORMANCE WITH APPLICABLE CODES:
All outdoor illuminating devices shall be installed in conformance with the
provisions of this code, the building code, the electrical code, and the sign
code of the village of Bloomingdale as applicable and under appropriate permit
and inspection. (Ord. 2013-19, 4-22-2013)
11-20-3: APPLICABILITY:
Applies to all applications for site plan review, zoning code or development
ordinance amendment, planned development, special use permit, site plan review,
and zoning variations for new lighting installations in all zoning districts,
while excluding applications for zoning variations located in single-family
residential districts and in the single-family portions of planned developments
and planned development districts. (Ord. 2013-19, 4-22-2013)
11-20-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, terms used shall be defined as follows:
AVG:MIN OR AVERAGE:MINIMUM RATIO: A measurement of the uniformity of light
distribution on a horizontal surface achieved by dividing the average light
output on the paved surface by the minimum light output on that surface.
BACKSIDE SHIELD OR SHIELD: A device which is added or attached to a light
fixture made from an opaque material which prevents light from being emitted in
certain directions, and is commonly applied to prevent light from entering an
adjacent property.
COLOR RENDITION INDEX OR CRI: A measure of the ability of a light source to
reproduce the colors of various objects faithfully in comparison with an ideal
or natural light source. A CRI of 100 is the maximum score and indicates a true
replication of the color of an object in natural light conditions.
COLOR TEMPERATURE: A measurement in kelvin that indicates the hue of a specific
type of light source for the purpose of comparing a proposed light source to
natural daylight.
FIXTURE OR FIXTURE, LIGHT (Also Called LUMINAIRE): The complete lighting
assembly (including the lamp(s), housing, ballasts, photocells, reflectors or
refractors, lenses, sensors and shields) less the support assembly of pole,
mounting bracket and base, consisting of one or more lamps together with the
parts designed to distribute light, position and protect the lamp, and connect
the lamp to a source of power. Light fixtures are evaluated for safety by
Underwriters Laboratory and are "rated" to certain wattage limits, as affixed
by a UL issued label. (See definition of UL Rating.)
FOOT-CANDLE (FC): A unit of measurement used to determine the amount of light
incident on a surface, also known as "illuminance". One foot-candle (1 FC) is
equivalent to one lumen evenly distributed over one square foot of surface area
at a distance of one foot (1'). Foot-candle measurements can be taken with a
handheld light meter.
FOOT-CANDLE LIGHT METER: A portable instrument which measures light levels in
foot-candle (FC) units emitted from a light source on a horizontal or vertical
surface.
FULL OR FULLY CUT OFF: A light fixture or luminaire designed, constructed and
installed in such a manner that all light emitted from the fixture, either
directly from the lamp(s) or a diffusing element, or indirectly by reflection
or refraction from any part of the fixture, is projected below the horizontal
plane through the fixture's lowest light emitting part.
GLARE: A visual disturbance produced by a direct view of a distinct light
source within the visual field that is sufficiently brighter than the level to
which the eyes are adapted to cause annoyance, discomfort, or loss in visual
performance and visibility; blinding light.
ILLUMINANCE: Measure of incident light. The amount of light, evaluated
according to its capacity to produce visual stimulation, that reaches a unit of
surface area during a unit of time. It is measured in lux, or in foot-candles
when evaluated on a square foot basis.
ILLUMINATING ENGINEERING SOCIETY OF NORTH AMERICA (IESNA OR IES): A nonprofit
organization founded in 1906 with a mission to improve the lighted environment
by bringing together engineers, lighting designers, consultants, lighting
equipment manufacturers, sales professionals, electrical contractors, and
academics to conduct research and promote best practices with the publication
of reference guides for a variety of specific lighting applications.
LAMP: The source of light being emitted from a luminaire, such as a bulb.
LIGHT LEVEL: The illuminance as measured by a light meter as reported in
photometry.
LIGHT OUTPUT: The amount of light which is emitted by a lamp or fixture.
LIGHT POLLUTION: Any unnecessary or adverse effect of artificial light
including, but not limited to: glare, light trespass, excessive or unnecessary
lighting, uplighting and sky glow; and any artificial light that unnecessarily
diminishes the ability to view the night sky or is disruptive to the natural
environment.
LIGHT SOURCE OR SOURCE: The light emitting part or parts of a light fixture,
consisting of the lamp or lamps, and any transparent or translucent covering
over the lamp, as well as any refractors, reflectors, prismatic lenses,
mirrors, or diffusers which emit or transmit light.
LIGHT TRESPASS: Light that falls on neighboring properties or produces glare or
distraction for observers away from the area for which the light is intended.
LIGHTING: Any or all parts of a luminaire that function to produce light, or
light produced by a manmade source, including, but not limited to, electric
lamps, gas lamps, and solar lamps.
LIGHTING, DECORATIVE: Lights that have an aesthetic purpose to illuminate the
architectural features of a building, site or landscaping and produce generally
low levels of light (less than 100 watts for traditional incandescent lights,
or less than 1600 to 1800 lumens) including, but not limited to, "gooseneck"
lights, sconce lights, recessed lighting in roof soffits, and silhouette
lights.
LIGHTING, ESSENTIAL: Light that is used for a specified period of time which is
necessary for a specific task or purpose while said task or purpose is actively
being performed.
LIGHTING, EXCESSIVE: Illuminance which exceeds the amount of light which is
permitted by the provisions, requirements and specifications contained herein.
LIGHTING, EXTERIOR: Temporary or permanent lighting that is installed, located
or used in such a manner to cause light rays to shine outdoors. For the
purposes of this chapter, fixtures which are located indoors, but which are
intended to illuminate something outside are considered exterior lighting.
LIGHTING, HID (HIGH INTENSITY DISCHARGE): A high intensity discharge family of
lighting that includes high pressure sodium, fluorescent, mercury vapor, metal
halide and ceramic metal halide type bulbs. These types require a warmup time,
usually require a ballast exclusive to the light source, and have a higher
lumen output per watt than incandescent or halogen lamps.
LIGHTING, HOLIDAY: Temporary lighting installed in connection with a holiday or
religious observances and intended to be removed thereafter.
LIGHTING INSTALLATION: The whole system of exterior lighting, including light
poles, mounting systems, and lighting fixture elements (including light
sources, such as incandescent, metal halide, mercury vapor lamps, and light
emitting diodes (LED)) that provide illumination to a given building exterior,
parking lot or other paved structure, or unpaved area.
LIGHTING INSTALLATION, NEW: A new lighting installation occurs in one or both
of the following circumstances:
   A.   In a new development or redevelopment, where exterior lighting,
including mounting poles, brackets, and fixtures are proposed to be affixed to
or erected upon: 1) a new structure, including building, patio, canopy,
sidewalk, parking lot or other paved area, or 2) an unpaved area;
   B.   When all exterior lighting, including mounting poles, brackets, and
fixtures, affixed to or erected upon: 1) an existing structure, including
building, patio, canopy, sidewalk, parking lot or other paved area, or 2) an
unpaved area, are removed and replaced or renovated with new exterior lighting,
including mounting poles, brackets, and fixtures.
LIGHTING, LANDSCAPE: Exterior lighting for the purpose of illuminating trees,
shrubbery, plants, flowerbeds, waterways, gardens and nonstructural, manmade
features, including, but not limited to, sculptures, fountains, trellises,
statuaries, tree houses and other features.
LIGHTING, NONCONFORMING: Lighting which does not meet the provisions,
requirements and specifications contained herein.
LIGHTING, NONESSENTIAL: Lighting which is unnecessary for pedestrian passage
and not generally useful (e.g., aesthetic, decorative or landscape lighting).
This includes lighting intended for a specific task or purpose when said task
or purpose is not being actively performed (e.g., parking lot illumination and
wall mounted perimeter lights after business hours).
LIGHTING, SPECIAL EVENT: Lighting approved by the village for use at a
temporary special event.
LIGHTING, SPORTS: Light fixtures used to illuminate courts, arenas, riding
arenas, fields, tracks and other recreational areas generally utilizing high
light output fixtures, higher light levels and are mounted on higher than
average freestanding poles.
LUMEN: The unit of measurement used to quantify the amount of light produced by
a lamp or emitted from a fixture (as distinct from "watt" which is a
measurement of the electrical power).
LUMINAIRE: See definition of Fixture Or Fixture, Light.
LUMINOUS FLUX: The power emitted from a source of electromagnetic radiation,
such as a light bulb or light transmitting elements, in the form of visible
light. Luminous flux is measured in lumens (lux) and is typically specified by
the manufacturer for a given lamp or fixture. Typical luminous flux values for
incandescent bulbs are 100W: 1550 lumens, 75W: 1080 lumens, 60W: 780 lumens and
40W: 450 lumens.
LUMINOUS TRANSMITTANCE: A measure of the amount of light that passes through a
sample of transparent material, generally plastic. This measurement forms a
basis for directly comparing the transparency of various grades and types of
plastics. A haze meter and/or a recording spectrophotometer are used in the
test. ASTM D-1003.
MAINTAINED FOOT-CANDLES: Illuminance of lighting fixtures adjusted for a
maintenance factor accounting for dirt buildup and lamp output depreciation.
The maintenance factor used in the design process to account for this
depreciation cannot be lower than 0.64 of the initial lumen output for metal
halide and mercury vapor lamps.
MOTION SENSOR: A sensor which causes a luminaire to become illuminated
automatically upon the presence of motion or infrared radiation, or a
combination thereof, within its field of view.
MOUNTING HEIGHT: The height above normal grade to the lowest light emitting
part of an installed fixture.
PHOTOMETRY: A technical test report that indicates light distribution and
performance of a fixture. A photometric plan may include candlepower
distribution data, cutoff classification, foot-candle chart, etc., some of
which are generally available directly from the manufacturer, and which may
have been produced by an independent laboratory.
SEARCHLIGHT: Lighting installation, either ground or vehicle mounted, designed
to project a high intensity beam of light that is typically used to sweep the
sky for promotional purposes.
SHIELD OR SHIELDED: When applied to lighting, an opaque barrier which does not
allow light to be transmitted in certain directions.
SKY GLOW: The brightening of the night sky or the overhead glow from artificial
light that is directed upward or reflected off moisture and dust particles in
the atmosphere, reducing the ability to view the natural night sky.
UL RATING: A reference to "Underwriters Laboratory", a commercial agency that
certifies the maximum safe wattage for fixtures and other electrical devices. A
UL label indicating the maximum safe wattage is affixed or imprinted on all
light fixtures which are offered for sale.
UNIFORMITY RATIO: A ratio that describes uniformity of illuminance across an
area.
UNSHIELDED: The luminaire only incorporates clear glass, which permits all
light to escape. (Ord. 2013-19, 4-22-2013)
11-20-5: FORMAL ZONING REVIEW OR PERMIT APPLICATION SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
As part of submittal for zoning relief as spelled out in section
11-20-2 of this chapter, applicants shall include the following:
   A.   A site plan with all existing and proposed structures, which should
show location, height, pole foundation details and mounting methods.
   B.   Lighting plans shall show foot-candle readings on a five foot (5')
grid.
   C.   The grid shall include the location and installed height of each
existing and proposed fixture, i.e., pole mounted, wall mounted, on-street
lights, and overall lights in foot-candles.
   D.   Grid should extend twenty feet (20') beyond the property lines and
indicate the zoning of adjacent properties.
   E.   Photometrics shall be prepared by the fixture manufacturer or other
professional, and shall provide calculation of the following:
      1.   Maximum and minimum foot-candle readings.
      2.   Average maintained foot-candle readings.
      3.   Average to minimum uniformity ratio.
   F.   A description of each light fixture should be provided, including:
      1.   Manufacturer, model number.
      2.   A photo of the fixture and manufacturer cut sheet, indicating pole
and fixture size, color and finish.
      3.   Detailed IES formatted photometric data.
      4.   Description of the cutoff characteristics of each fixture.
      5.   Light output in initial lumens and lamp type, verifying any
compliance requirements specified.
   G.   Mounting height shall be indicated with distance to nearest property
line, including pole foundation dimension.
   H.   Shielding or glare reduction devices and all mounting details,
including base.
   I.   Types of timing devices or motion sensor devices used to control the
fixtures and a schedule of the proposed hours when each fixture will be
operated. (Ord. 2013-19, 4-22-2013)
11-20-6: POSTCONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
Prior to issuance of a final certificate of occupancy, the applicant shall
schedule an on site inspection and observation with the building and zoning
official during hours of darkness to confirm that the new lighting installation
does not cause glare. The building and zoning official may, at his discretion,
require a postinstallation photometric plan or verify measurements from a foot-
candle light meter to compare with the approved photometric plan. If glare is
observed, or if the foot-candle readings are not consistent with the approved
photometric plan, the applicant shall provide a plan to the building and zoning
official to remedy the problem, and shall implement the plan to the
satisfaction of the building and zoning official. (Ord. 2013-19, 4-22-2013)
11-20-7: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Requirements For All Exterior Lighting Fixtures:
      1.   Light Measurements: All electrical light sources shall have a color
rendition index ("CRI") of 65 or more, and a color temperature ranging from
three thousand (3000) to five thousand five hundred (5500) kelvin. The building
and zoning official may, at his discretion, permit measurements outside of
these ranges for specific lighting applications.
      2.   Fixtures Prohibited:
         a.   Exposed luminous tube lighting, whether neon, LED, or
fluorescent.
         b.   Strobe lights.
         c.   Laser lights.
         d.   Blinking, flickering, scrolling, rolling, pulsating, and tracing
lights, or revolving lighting, including on signs.
         e.   Searchlights, except as required by law enforcement, or permitted
as part of a temporary land use permit for a grand opening or similar event.
      3.   Fixture Color And Finish: All light poles, fixtures, and external
housing shall be black or dark bronze in color, with a matte, or nonglossy
finish.
   B.   Parking Lot And Access Drive Lighting:
      1.   Uniform Illumination: During business hours, parking lots shall be
uniformly illuminated such that vehicular license plates, addresses, and
directional, instructional, and regulatory signs are plainly visible without
blind spots or excessive distortion of color.
      2.   Automatic Controls: Lighting shall have automatic controls capable
of being turned off when sufficient daylight is available or when lighting is
not required during nighttime hours. Lighting not designated for dusk to dawn
operation shall be controlled by time switch or photo sensor. The
aforementioned controls shall not apply to exit lighting as required by life
safety regulations.
      3.   Full Cutoff Fixtures: All luminaires serving parking lots shall be
full cutoff fixtures as defined by the IESNA "Lighting Handbook". (Ord. 2013-
19, 4-22-2013)
      4.   Light Source: All luminaires shall be metal halide, mercury vapor,
or light emitting diode (LED) light source. (Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013)
      5.   Mounting Heights, Including Base: Parking lot light poles shall have
a minimum height of twenty feet (20'), and a maximum height of twenty eight
feet (28') above grade. Notwithstanding this limitation, in a planned unit
development with a floor area in excess of three hundred thousand (300,000)
square feet, the village board may allow a height of up to forty feet (40') if
all of the following apply:
         a.   There is no residential use or no overnight occupancy within one
hundred fifty feet (150') of the parking lot perimeter;
         b.   The buildings at the perimeter of the parking lot are configured
so that the lighting is shielded from the residential uses or overnight
occupancy; and
         c.   The site measures ten (10) acres or greater.
      6.   Fixture Setback: The setback distance for freestanding light
fixtures to the property line in any nonresidential district shall be no less
than three (3) times the mounting height unless it can be demonstrated, on a
lighting plan, that with the use of a backside shield, all light trespass
limits are met.
      7.   Method Of Measurement: Unless otherwise specified, light levels
shall be measured on the horizontal plane at grade level within the site.
      8.   Glare: The village may require a change in fixture type if there are
concerns and/or complaints of excessive glare for fixtures installed without
the requisite building or electrical permit.
      9.   Illuminance Values For Parking Lots:
         a.   Paved Areas: The following levels of illumination apply to
parking lots in nonresidential areas, and in multi-family planned developments
in the R-4 multiple-family dwelling residence district and the R-5 multiple-
family high rise residence district:
         PHOTOMETRIC REQUIREMENTS FOR PAVED
         AREAS OF OFF STREET PARKING LOTS
 
Land Use             Minimum Foot- Candle Average Foot-Candle* Average:Minimum
                                                               Ratio
High intensity uses:
Shopping centers     0.9                  3.0 - 4.0            4:1
greater than 300,000
sq. ft. of GLA
Medium: Commercial
uses (retail,
office, and business
park) in excess of   0.6                  2.0 - 3.0            4:1
5,000 sq. ft. Public
parks in excess of
50 parking spaces
Low: Multi-family
residential uses,
commercial uses
(retail, office, and 0.2                  1.0 - 2.0            4:1
business park) 5,000
sq. ft. or less.
Public parks 50
spaces or less
 
         b.   Light Trespass, Lighting Transition, And Entrance Drives: To the
greatest extent possible, light levels at a property line should be compatible
with the surrounding property, especially at the point where the access drive
meets the right of way. The primary intent is to assist motorists and
pedestrians in locating the access drive, and avoiding an excessive contrast
between the light levels of the driveway and the roadway that could impair
visual acuity in this area.
If the proposed development is adjacent to residential uses, institutional
uses, or hotels and motels where there are patients, residents, or guests, the
light levels at the property line shall not exceed the lesser of 0.2 FC or the
light level of the adjacent property. Landscaping shall be provided to buffer
direct view of fixture.
If adjacent to a commercial use with a similar land use and existing
illuminance at the property line, then light levels at this location should not
exceed the lesser of 2.0 FC or the light level of the adjacent property.
The light levels at an entrance drive, at the point at which the drive
intersects with the public street, shall be the lesser of: 1) one hundred fifty
percent (150%) of the average maintained light levels on the site, or 2) the
light levels currently existing in the street right of way.
   C.   Automobile Service Station And Drive-Through Establishments: (Maximum
values in FC, measured horizontal at grade.)
 
                                       Dark Surroundings Light Surroundings
Driveway                                2.50              3.0
Service areas                           4.0               4.0
Under canopy (includes gas stations and 15.0              20.0
other drive- through businesses)
 
Lighting under the canopy shall be recessed, with fixtures flush with the
underside of the canopy. The canopy shall contain a buffer incorporated into
the architectural style of the canopy, to block direct view of the fixtures
from passing motorists and pedestrians.
   D.   Building Mounted Security Or Functional Lighting: All fixtures shall be
full or fully cut off. (Ord. 2013-19, 4-22-2013)
   E.   Building Or Canopy Mounted Lighting Of An Architectural Or Decorative
Nature:
      1.   Lighting fixtures shall be selected, located, aimed, and shielded so
that direct illumination is focused exclusively on the building or canopy
facade, plantings, and other intended site features, and away from adjoining
properties and public street rights of way.
      2.   Illumination on a vertical surface or angular roof shall not exceed
5.0 FC average maintained.
      3.   To the extent practical, lighting shall be directed downward rather
than upward.
      4.   If upward lighting is to be allowed, low wattage fixtures with
shields shall be placed as close to the building as possible to avoid glare
from windows and other surfaces. (Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013)
      5.   Notwithstanding the restrictions as set out in subsections E1
through E4 of this section, canopies for automobile gas stations may consist of
some or all of the following methods of illumination: indirect silhouette
lighting, reflective lighting, or internally lit elements, subject to the
approval of the village board, who may, at their discretion, refer any proposed
canopy lighting to the planning and zoning commission for a prior review at a
public meeting in the manner of a site plan review as provided for elsewhere in
this code. In that case, the planning and zoning commission will prepare a
finding of fact to be submitted to the board containing its review of the
revised exterior lighting plans. (Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013; amd. Ord. 2014-48,
10-27-2014)
      6.   Proposals for canopy lighting shall include technical details of all
proposed lighting installations, including lumen output, color rendition index,
and Kelvin temperature. (Ord. 2013-33, 10-28-2013)
   F.   Permanent Sign Lighting:
      1.   Freestanding, Not Interior Lit: Lighting fixtures that illuminate
signs shall be aimed and shielded so that direct illumination is focused
directly on the sign. Signs may be illuminated by a ground mounted light not to
exceed the lumens generated by a one hundred (100) watt incandescent lamp
(typically 1600 to 1800 lumens), or its equivalent metal halide fixture. If
necessary, landscaping shall be installed to screen motorists and pedestrians
from glare associated with any light spillage from the light illuminating the
signs.
      2.   Internally Lit: Internally illuminated freestanding signs are
permitted so long as the sign meets the following requirements:
         a.   Signs shall consist of light lettering (or symbols) on a dark
background;
         b.   The lettering or symbols shall constitute no more than forty
percent (40%) of the surface area of the sign;
         c.   The luminous transmittance for the lettering and symbols shall
not exceed thirty five percent (35%) of the surface area of the sign;
         d.   The luminous transmittance for the background portion of the sign
shall not exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the surface area of the sign.
         e.   Light sources shall be fluorescent tubes, spaced at least twelve
inches (12") on center, mounted 3.5 inches from the translucent surface
material. (Ord. 2013-19, 4-22-2013)
   G.   Decorative Lighting Or Pedestrian Scale Lighting: All installations for
decorative street and parking lot lighting, or pedestrian walkway lighting,
whether or not they are part of a formal petition for zoning review, shall
require a review by the planning and zoning commission and approval by the
village board of trustees. Said review shall require a public hearing if it is
part of a larger petition for zoning relief that would require a public
hearing. If the installation does not otherwise require a public hearing, then
the review can be accomplished through a public meeting process. (Ord. 2013-19,
4-22-2013; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
      1.   The height of fixtures may be less than the minimum height of twenty
feet (20') pending a determination that the photometrics indicate that light
levels will be well distributed, glare will be avoided, and the fixtures will
be well integrated with the parking lot and walkway layout.
      2.   The petitioner shall demonstrate that additional light poles,
fixtures and luminaires will be purchased and stored to address eventual
problems with damaged poles and burned out luminaires.
      3.   Special emphasis will be needed on eliminating glare. A written
explanation shall accompany the plans that address how glare will be minimized
through fixture design or placement. Where appropriate, a luminaire shall be
coated to minimize glare.
      4.   All aspects of the light fixtures shall comply with IESNA standards
for decorative fixtures. (Ord. 2013-19, 4-22-2013)
11-20-8: NONCONFORMING LIGHTING:
   A.   Any freestanding lighting fixture, light source, or lighting
installation lawfully in place or approved by the village prior to the adoption
of this chapter shall be exempt from these requirements. At the time that a
fixture (see definition of "fixture or fixture, light") or light source that
does not comply with the standards of this chapter, and is not exempt, is
replaced, moved, upgraded, or otherwise changed, the fixture or light source
must be brought into compliance with the requirements of this chapter for light
fixtures and light sources. At the time that a lighting installation becomes a
new lighting installation, it must be brought into compliance with the
requirements of this chapter.
   B.   If a fixture does not conform to the standards of this chapter, and is
not exempt, and was installed without the required building or electrical
permit, and has been reported to the village or otherwise observed by the
village to be causing glare to the extent it is a danger to public safety, it
shall be considered a violation of the standards of this chapter. Both the
owner of the property and the business operating on the premises shall be
notified in writing of the violation. The fixture must be brought into
conformance with the provisions of this chapter within thirty (30) days, with
such extensions as the building and zoning official deems reasonable.
   C.   Where a lighting installation is damaged or destroyed by fire or other
casualty, or act of God, to the extent that the cost of restoration will exceed
fifty percent (50%) of the cost of the installation if new, the provisions of
chapter 12, "Nonconforming Buildings, Structures And Uses", of this title shall
apply.
   D.   When redevelopment occurs in a planned development in excess of one
hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of gross leasable area and there is need
to replace a portion of the exterior parking lot lighting, the new lighting
fixtures shall be compatible with the lighting in the remainder of the
development. (Ord. 2013-19, 4-22-2013)
11-20-9: EXCEPTIONS:
Requests for relief from the provisions of this chapter shall require a review
by the planning and zoning commission at a public meeting and approval by the
village board. (Ord. 2013-19, 4-22-2013; amd. Ord. 2014-48, 10-27-2014)
11-20-10: SEVERABILITY:
If any portion of this chapter or of the regulations incorporated herein by
reference is declared or held to be invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such declaration or finding of invalidity shall not affect any
remaining portion of this chapter or the regulations incorporated herein which
may be given effect without such invalid provisions, and to that end the
provisions of this chapter are severable. (Ord. 2013-19, 4-22-2013)
11-20-11: ABROGATION:
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any greater
restrictions imposed on existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions.
Whenever the provisions of any other law, ordinance, or regulation impose
higher standards than are required by the provisions of this chapter, the
provision of such law, ordinance, or regulation shall govern. (Ord. 2013-19, 4-
22-2013)
11-20-12: INSTALLATIONS IN PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS:
Notwithstanding the provisions of section
11-20-11 of this chapter, property owners in planned developments desirous of
replacing their approved installations to include light source that will
achieve the light levels permitted under this chapter shall require the
necessary permits in compliance with applicable codes as specified in section
11-20-2 of this chapter, but said owners will not require a formal amendment of
their development ordinance. (Ord. 2013-19, 4-22-2013)
