Comprehensive Ordinance List
Publisher's Note: The following table lists all ordinances passed by the
Village of Bowen. The table includes links to the ordinances, as maintained in
PDF format. For other legislation, including ordinances passed prior to 2024,
please contact the Village offices.
 
Ordinances that amend the Code and are not yet effective have their
identifiying information highlighted in yellow. Changes made by those
ordinances are not incorporated into the text of the Code until the amending
ordinances are effective. Ordinances that do not affect the code have been
grayed out.
 
Jump to:
2024 Ordinances
2025 Ordinances
2024 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                   Paid Leave for employees as required by the Illinois Paid
457      1/11/2024 Leave for All Workers Act
                    
                   30.07
458      7/10/2024 Enacting Code of Ordinances
                   Amending code regarding permit for non-resident vehicle
459      8/15/2024 owner
                    
                   Amending 151.08
 
 
2025 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                   Amending code regulating parking restrictions
463      3/12/2025  
                   Adding Ch. 71
                   Amending code regarding Village Officers (duties, salary,
464      3/12/2025 and compensation)
                    
                   Amending 30.05
                   Amending code regarding Meetings
465      3/12/2025  
                   Adding 30.08
                   Amending code regarding Burn/Dump Site
466      4/9/2025   
                   Amending 50.01
                   Amending code regarding payment of water bills
467      4/9/2025   
                   Amending 51.07
                   Amending code regarding non-home rule tax
468      6/19/2025  
                   Adding Ch. 113
 
 
 
BOWEN, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 467, passed 4-9-2025
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 458
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE VILLAGE OF BOWEN
(“Code of Bowen”)
   WHEREAS, the Village of Bowen ("the Village") is a non-home rule
municipality duly organized under, and subject to, the laws of the State of
Illinois; and
   WHEREAS, Section 1-2-1 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/1-2-1)
provides that the corporate authorities of each municipality may pass all
ordinances and make all rules and regulations which are proper or necessary to
carry into effect the powers granted to municipalities, with such fines and
penalties as may be deemed proper; and
   WHEREAS, in 2023, the Village Board of Trustees of the Village of Bowen
("the Village Board") determined that the current Village ordinances were
inadequately arranged and classified and that many ordinances had been amended
so frequently that it became difficult to determine which ordinances, or
provisions of ordinances, were in effect; and
   WHEREAS, in 2023, the Village Board retained the services of American Legal
Publishing, a codification service provider in Cincinnati, Ohio ("the
Codifier"), to collect, organize, consolidate, and update the ordinances which
had been previously passed into an orderly, formal code of ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, the Codifier completed the codification this year and submitted a
draft copy for review; and
   WHEREAS, Village officers and the Village Attorney reviewed and revised the
draft copy, and the Village has now been furnished with a completed code for
the Village (known as the "Code of Bowen"); and
   WHEREAS, the Village Board has determined that it is in the best interests
of the Village that the Code of Bowen be adopted as the Village's compiled code
of ordinances; and
   WHEREAS, because the ordinances are necessary to provide for the daily
operation of the Village and to preserve the public peace, health, safety, and
general welfare of the residents of the Village, it is necessary that the Code
of Bowen take effect at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the President and the Board of Trustees of
the Village of Bowen, Hancock County, Illinois, as follows:
   SECTION 1. The facts and statements contained in the above preamble are true
and correct and are hereby made a part of this ordinance as the findings of the
Village Board.
   SECTION 2. The general ordinances of the Village of Bowen, as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as,
and shall constitute, the Code of Bowen.
   SECTION 3. The Code of Bowen, as adopted in Section 2, shall consist of the
titles listed in the Table of Contents, a copy of which is attached to Ord.
458.
   SECTION 4. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in the
Code of Bowen shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of
this ordinance, except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part
in the Code of Bowen; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense
committed or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective
date of this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of
ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in, or covered by, the Code of Bowen.
   SECTION 5. The Code of Bowen shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Village Board and the Mayor, and the Village Clerk
is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of the Code of Bowen in the
office of the Village Clerk.
   SECTION 6. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety, and general
welfare of the people of this Village, and it shall take effect after its
passage, approval, and publication (posting) as provided by law (ten days after
posting).
PASSED by the Village Board of the Village of Bowen, Hancock County, Illinois,
on July 10, 2024, pursuant to the following roll call vote:
(List names)
AYES: S. Owen, D. Campbell, B. Gaines, G. Cole, M. Westfall
NAYS: ________________________________________________
ABSENT: T. Westfall
ABSTAIN:______________________________________________
APPROVED ON 7-10-24:                     Jesse Van Beck /s/
                                    Jesse Van Beck, Village President
ATTEST:                              Linda Twaddle /s/
                                    Linda Twaddle, Village Clerk
 
 
Rev. July 10, 2024
By Diane Vine, Village Attorney
2025 S-1
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the Village of Bowen shall be designated as the
“Bowen Village Code” and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   COUNTY. Hancock County, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Board of Hancock County, Illinois.
(5 ILCS 70/1.07)
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.
(5 ILCS 70/1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of that officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(5 ILCS 70/1.08)
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER. HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution, or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at
any time after that date.
(5 ILCS 70/1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of the state, or of any town or county of the state, and all
bridges thereupon.
(5 ILCS 70/1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR. The President of the Village of Bowen.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(5 ILCS 70/1.12)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(5 ILCS 70/1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property, except real.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, county, state or federal governments, officers and agencies thereof,
or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized public
official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The village code hereby adopted, and
as hereinafter modified by amendment, revision, and by the adoption of new
titles, chapters or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in § 1 of Article VII of
the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.28)
   VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES or VILLAGE BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the
village.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Bowen.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law,
except as otherwise provided by law it shall be:
      (1)   In the proper handwriting of that person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark; or
      (2)   An electronic signature as defined in the Uniform Electronic
Transactions Act, except as otherwise provided by law.
(5 ILCS 70/1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord”.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(5 ILCS 70/1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(5 ILCS 70/1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(5 ILCS 70/1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   (1)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done
shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the
last day is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any
statute now or hereafter in force in the state, and then it shall also be
excluded.
      (2)   If the day succeeding Saturday, Sunday or a holiday is also a
holiday or a Saturday or Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be
excluded.
(5 ILCS 70/1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(5 ILCS 70/1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the Mayor and
Village Board of Trustees may be fully carried out.
(5 ILCS 70/1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, insofar as they are the same as those
of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(5 ILCS 70/2)
§ 10.05 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the village shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) below:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding, or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context clearly
indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was not
intended.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters or sections of these codified
ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions bearing the
latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions bear the same
passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be consistent with the
meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject matter taken as a
whole.
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections and divisions, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code of ordinances by the
Village Board of Trustees.
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. These references
shall also include the designee or agent of the officer or office, unless the
law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
word or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the
intention of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no
meaning can be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or
words was clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be
corrected and the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will
conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same
effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as originally
published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including but not limited
to tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming, or vacating streets, alleys or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the village; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the Village
Board of Trustees or a certain village officer or employee to make additional
regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
regulations of a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the
codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are
saved.
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   (A)   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to the technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the village.
   (B)   Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text of the
section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1)
   (C)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text
of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         The village shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying
      all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information
Act.
      Statutory reference:
         Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this code or other ordinance of the
village for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall be fined
not more than $750 for each and every violation thereof, and every day the
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to imprison for certain ordinance violations, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-
1.1
   Limitations on penalties and collection upon default in payment, see 65 ILCS
5/1-2-1
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS; POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS; POLICIES
Section
   
30.01   FOIA Officer; requests
   
30.02   Solicitation, acceptance of gifts
   
30.03   Sexual harassment policy
   
30.04   Village funds; signatories on accounts
   
30.05   Village officials; duties; salaries and compensation
   
30.06   Prevailing wage rates
   
30.07   Paid leave policy
   
30.08   Village Board; meeting day and time
 
   
30.99   Penalty
§ 30.01 FOIA OFFICER; REQUESTS.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Treasurer is hereby designated as the FOIA Officer
to whom all initial requests for access to the records of the village are to be
referred. Such requests are to be made at the Village Hall during its regular
business hours: 7:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m., Monday through Thursday. In the event
the Village Treasurer is not available during the times described above, a
Trustee is designated as the Deputy FOIA Officer to whom such initial requests
are to be made.
      (2)   Except in instances when records are furnished immediately, the
FOIA Officer, or the Deputy FOIA Officer in his or her absence, shall receive
requests submitted to the village under the Freedom of Information Act, shall
comply with all time deadlines imposed by the Act (currently five business days
after receipt of the request), and shall respond to those requests as required
by the Act.
      (3)   The FOIA Officer also shall develop a list of documents or
categories of records that the village shall immediately disclose upon request.
   (B)   Any person who requests records of the village must submit that
request in writing to the village’s FOIA Officer. The FOIA Officer is the
Village Treasurer. The Deputy FOIA Officer is whomever the Village Board
designates.
(Ord. 445, passed 9-21-2022)
§ 30.02 SOLICITATION, ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS.
   (A)   Adoption of Act.
      (1)   The Illinois Gift Ban Act (5 ILCS 430, Article 10) is hereby
adopted.
      (2)   The gift ban requirements apply to any elected or appointed
official or any employee of the village, his or her spouse, and immediate
family living with them.
      (3)   To the extent authorized by law and to the extent required by state
law, the Mayor is appointed to serve as the “ethics officer” of the village.
The ethics officer’s duties shall be as declared by state law.
   (B)   Complaints. All complaints for violations of the Gift Ban Act and this
chapter shall be filed as required by state law.
   (C)   Future Amendments to State Gift Ban Act. Any amendment to the State
Gift Ban Act (5 ILCS 425/1 et seq.) that becomes effective after the passage of
this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and shall be
applicable to the solicitation and acceptance of gifts. However, any amendment
that makes its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the village.
   (D)   Future declaration of unconstitutionality of State Gift Ban Act. If
the Illinois Supreme Court declares the State Gift Ban Act (5 ILCS 430/10-10 et
seq.) unconstitutional in its entirety, then this section shall be repealed as
of the date that the Supreme Court’s decision becomes final and not subject to
any further appeals or rehearings. The section shall be deemed repealed without
further action by the corporate authorities of the village, if the Act is found
unconstitutional by the Illinois Supreme Court. If the Illinois Supreme Court
declares part of the State Gift Ban Act (5 ILCS 430/10-10 et seq.)
unconstitutional, but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the Act
or does not address the remainder of the Act, then the remainder of the Act as
adopted by this section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that
part of this section relating to the part of the Act found unconstitutional
shall be deemed repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of
the village.
§ 30.03 SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Prohibition on sexual harassment.
      (1)   It is unlawful to harass a person because of that person’s sex. The
courts have determined that sexual harassment is a form of discrimination under
Title VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended in 1991, being 40
U.S.C. §§ 2000e et seq. All persons have a right to work in an environment free
from sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is unacceptable misconduct which
affects individuals of all genders and sexual orientations.
      (2)   It is a policy of the village to prohibit harassment of any person
by any municipal official, municipal agent, municipal employee or municipal
agency or office on the basis of sex or gender. All municipal officials,
municipal agents, municipal employees and municipal agencies or offices are
prohibited from sexually harassing any person, regardless of any employment
relationship or lack thereof.
   (B)   Definition. This policy adopts the definition of sexual harassment as
stated in the state’s Human
Rights Act, which currently defines SEXUAL HARASSMENT as:
      (1)   Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any
conduct of a sexual nature when:
         (a)   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or
implicitly a term or condition of an individual’s employment;
         (b)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is
used as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual; or
         (c)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially
interfering with an individual’s work performance or creating an intimidating,
hostile or offensive working environment.
      (2)   Conduct which may constitute SEXUAL HARASSMENT includes:
         (a)   Verbal: sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor
and jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence of a sexual nature;
         (b)   Non-verbal: suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, “catcalls”, “smacking”
or “kissing” noises;
         (c)   Visual: posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites;
         (d)   Physical: touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching,
brushing the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault; and
         (e)   Textual/electronic: “sexting” (electronically sending messages
with sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually
explicit language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of
electronic communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line
postings, blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and
Twitter).
      (3)   The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to
determine. On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more
subtle and depends, to some extent, on individual perception and
interpretation. The courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what
would offend a reasonable person.
   (C)   Procedure for reporting an allegation of sexual harassment.
      (1)   An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes
herself or himself to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the
incident(s) as directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her or
his position to the offending employee, and her or his immediate supervisor. It
is not necessary for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the
report.
      (2)   Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual
harassment, including the following.
         (a)   Electronic/direct communication. If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her or his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
         (b)   Contact with supervisory personnel.
            1.   At the same time direct communication is undertaken, or in the
event the employee feels threatened or intimidated by the situation, the
problem must be promptly reported to the immediate supervisor of the person
making the report, a department head, a director of human resources, an ethics
officer, the village manager or administrator or the chief executive officer of
the municipality.
            2.   The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual
harassment must not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there
are no witnesses and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other
responsible officer, the municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of
the harassment.
         (c)   Resolution outside municipality.
            1.   The purpose of this policy is to establish prompt, thorough
and effective procedures for responding to every report and incident so that
problems can be identified and remedied by the municipality. However, all
municipal employees have the right to contact the state’s Department of Human
Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) for
information regarding filing a formal complaint with those entities. An IDHR
complaint must be filed within 300 days of the alleged incident(s) unless it is
a continuing offense. A complaint with the EEOC must also be filed within 300
days.
            2.   Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report
(what was said or done, the date, the time and the place), including, but not
limited to, written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone
messages.
            3.   All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted
and investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
municipality. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges and the difficulties associated with their investigation and the
questions of credibility involved, the claimant’s willing cooperation is a
vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome.
   (D)   Prohibition on retaliation for reporting sexual harassment
allegations.
      (1)   No municipal official, municipal agency, municipal employee or
municipal agency or office shall take any retaliatory action against any
municipal employee due to a municipal employee’s:
         (a)   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this
policy;
         (b)   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation
of this policy; or
         (c)   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
      (2)   For the purposes of this policy, RETALIATORY ACTION means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any municipal employee that
is taken in retaliation for a municipal employee’s involvement in protected
activity pursuant to this policy.
      (3)   No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a
report made in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will
be protected from retaliation.
      (4)   Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein,
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act (5 ILCS 430/15-10) provides
whistleblower protection from retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge,
suspension, demotion or denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in
retaliation for an employee who does any of the following:
         (a)   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a
public body an activity, policy or practice of any officer, member, state
agency or other state employee that the state employee reasonably believes is
in violation of a law, rule or regulation;
         (b)   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule or regulation by any officer, member, state agency or other state
employee; or
         (c)   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
      (5)   Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act (740 ILCS 174/15(a)), an employer
may not retaliate against an employee who discloses information in a court, an
administrative hearing or before a legislative commission or committee, or in
any other proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that
the information discloses a violation of a state or federal law, rule or
regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an employee for
disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency, where the
employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of a state or federal law, rule or regulation (740 ILCS 174/15(b)).
      (6)   According to the state’s Human Rights Act (775 ILCS 5/6-101), it is
a civil rights violation for a person, or for two or more people to conspire,
to retaliate against a person because he or she has opposed that which he or
she reasonably and in good faith believes to be sexual harassment in
employment, because he or she has made a charge, filed a complaint, testified,
assisted or participated in an investigation, proceeding or hearing under the
state’s Human Rights Act.
      (7)   An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or
passed over for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may
file a retaliation charge either due within 300 days of the alleged
retaliation.
   (E)   Consequences of a violation of the prohibition on sexual harassment.
In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant to
municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this policy or the
prohibition on sexual harassment contained in 5 ILCS 430/5-65, may be subject
to a fine of up to $5,000 per offense, applicable discipline or discharge by
the municipality and any applicable fines and penalties established pursuant to
local ordinance, state law or federal law. Each violation may constitute a
separate offense. Any discipline imposed by the municipality shall be separate
and distinct from any penalty imposed by an ethics commission and any fines or
penalties imposed by a court of law or a state or federal agency.
   (F)   Consequences for knowingly making a false report. A false report is a
report of sexual harassment made by an accuser using the sexual harassment
report to accomplish some end other than stopping sexual harassment or
retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false report is not a report
made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the seriousness of the
consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is a severe offense
that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who intentionally
makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of this policy shall
be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant to applicable municipal
policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/or
collective bargaining agreements.
(Ord. 413, passed 1-11-2018) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.04 VILLAGE FUNDS; SIGNATORIES ON ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Deposit of village funds.
      (1)   Designation by Village Board. The Village Treasurer is required to
keep all village funds and monies in his or her custody and/or control in the
place(s) of deposit designated, or to be designated, by the Village Board. When
a financial institution has been designated as a depository, it shall remain a
depository until a new depository is designated and has qualified as provided
by law. When a new depository is designated, the Village Board, or its
designee, shall provide written notification to the sureties of the village
and/or the village officials at least five days before the transfer of village
funds.
      (2)   Qualifications of financial institution.
         (a)   No new financial institution shall be qualified to receive
village funds or monies until it has furnished the Village Board with copies of
the last two sworn statements of resources and liabilities which it is required
to furnish to the auditor of public accounts or to the Comptroller of Currency.
         (b)   Each financial institution that is designated as a depository,
while acting in that capacity for the village, shall furnish the Village Board
with a copy of all statements of resources and liabilities which it is required
to furnish to the auditor of public accounts or to the Comptroller of Currency.
      (3)   Discharge of responsibility. While the funds remain on deposit, the
Village Treasurer shall be discharged from responsibility for all funds or
monies that he or she deposits in the village’s accounts with the depository
bank.
      (4)   Authorized depositories. The following financial institution is
designated as an authorized depository of village funds and monies where the
Village Treasurer is required to keep all village funds and monies in his or
her custody and/or control: The Bank of Advance, (Bowen Banking Center), 415 W.
5th Street, Bowen, IL 62316, and its successor(s) in interest. Any subsequent
change in depository shall be done by resolution unless otherwise required by
law.
   (B)   Investment of surplus or reserve village funds. At the direction of
the Village Board, the Village Treasurer is authorized to invest the village’s
surplus funds or reserve funds in the following types of investments:
      (1)   General obligation securities of the U.S.A. or the State of
Illinois;
      (2)   Certificates of deposit and time deposits in any financial
institution designated, or to be designated, by the Village Board in which
investments are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Company;
      (3)   Money market certificates;
      (4)   Short-term discount obligations of the Federal National Mortgage
Association; and
      (5)   Any other types of investments authorized by a majority of the
Village Board.
   (C)   Authorized signatories; bonding.
      (1)   All checks issued by the Village Treasurer for payment out of the
municipal funds of the village shall be issued over the signature of the
Village Treasurer and countersigned by the Village Mayor. All checks issued by
the Village Clerk out of any fund or account within his or her control shall be
issued over the signature of the Village Clerk and countersigned by the Village
Mayor.
      (2)   In the event one of the two required signatories is not able to
sign due to his or her vacation, illness, employment-related absence from the
municipality, or emergency, then a senior (by seniority) Village Trustee is
authorized to sign.
      (3)   The signatories on the village’s accounts shall be bonded as
required by law.
   (D)   Notice to signatory bank. The Village Treasurer shall notify the
village’s authorized depositories of any changes related to authorized
signatories.
§ 30.05 VILLAGE OFFICIALS; DUTIES; SALARIES AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Village President (Mayor) and the other elected and appointed
village officials (Trustees, Village Clerk, and Village Treasurer) shall
perform all of the duties prescribed by state law or municipal ordinance and
are required to see that the laws and ordinances are faithfully executed.
   (B)   The salaries and compensation paid to the village officials may be
changed from time to time (by ordinance) and shall take effect as required by
state law (including 65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-5, 65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-10, and 65 ILCS 5/
3.1-50-15). Once fixed by ordinance, the compensation of elected officials
cannot be increased or decreased during an elected official's current term of
office.
   (C)   The salaries and compensation currently paid to the village officials
are as follows:
      (1)   Elected officials.
         (a)   Village President (Mayor): $1,020 annual salary ($255 paid
quarterly);
         (b)   Trustee: $17.50 for each held meeting, plus $17.50 for each
meeting attended (paid quarterly);
         (c)   Village Clerk: $900 annual salary ($225 paid quarterly).
      (2)   Appointed official.
         (a)   Village Treasurer: $20.00 per hour (20 hours per week), plus
eight sick days paid per year and 14 vacation days paid per year.
(Ord. 415, passed 3-13-2019; Ord. 464, passed 3-12-2025)
§ 30.06 PREVAILING WAGE RATES.
   (A)   The Illinois Prevailing Wage Act (820 ILCS 130/1 et seq.) is hereby
adopted.
   (B)   Any amendment that takes effect hereafter shall be incorporated into
this section by reference.
§ 30.07 PAID LEAVE POLICY.
   (A)   This policy applies to all employees of the village, including
seasonal employees. However, it does not apply to independent contractors
retained by the village.
   (B)   As required by law, the village shall keep records of all accrued paid
leave (including the hours worked per year, the paid leave accrued, the paid
leave taken, and the paid leave balance at year’s end).
   (C)   Accrual begins upon the start of employment or on January 1, 2024,
whichever is later.
   (D)   Each full-time and part-time employee of the village shall receive one
hour of paid leave per 40 hours worked, up to and including 40 hours of paid
leave days per year. Leave may be taken for any reason, such as going to
medical and dental appointments, caring for an ill family member, and attending
a funeral.
   (E)   Paid leave, once accrued, will be granted after the employee provides
sufficient notice (of at least seven days) to the Village Mayor (or Acting
Village Mayor). If paid leave is necessary due to an emergency, then notice
shall be given by the employee as soon as possible.
   (F)   Up to 40 hours of accrued paid leave may be carried over to the next
12-month period. However, depending on the circumstances, the village may
allow, but is not required to allow, more than 40 hours of paid leave off in a
year.
   (G)   The village is not obligated to pay out any accrued, but unused, paid
leave. There shall be no payout of any accrued, but unused, paid leave upon
separation (resignation or termination).
(Ord. 457, passed 1-10-2024)
§ 30.08 VILLAGE BOARD; MEETING DAY AND TIME.
   The Village Board regularly meets on the second Wednesday of the month,
beginning at 7:00 p.m., at the Village Hall. Special meetings are set as
needed. Notice of any change to the regular meeting schedule, and of the
scheduling of special meetings, is given as required by law.
(Ord. 465, passed 3-12-2025)
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   In addition to the provisions of §
30.03(F) of this chapter, any person who intentionally makes a false report
alleging a violation of any provision of the state’s Officials and Employees
Ethics Act, 5 ILCS 430, to an ethics commission, an inspector general, the
State Police, a State’s Attorney, the Attorney General or any other law
enforcement official is guilty of a Class A misdemeanor. An Ethics Commission
may levy an administrative fine of up to $5,000 against any person who
intentionally makes a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation.
(Ord. 413, passed 1-11-2018)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Burn/dump site
Solid Waste Collection and Disposal
   
50.15   Garbage receptacles
   
50.16   Items excluded from collection
   
50.17   Prohibited acts and conditions
   
50.18   Collection charges
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Health and Sanitation; Nuisances, see
Chapter 91
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 BURN/DUMP SITE.
   (A)   The village provides a site (currently at the north end of town) for
village residents to dump their yard waste and tree debris. Those who do not
reside in the village are prohibited from using that site. Violators will be
fined.
   (B)   The dump site is used to burn only yard waste, tree limbs and
branches, and other tree parts taken down by cutting or storms.
   (C)   The dumping of any other materials, including trash, furniture, metal,
tires, batteries, and any other solid waste, is prohibited. Violators will be
fined.
(Ord. 332, passed 6-14-2006; Ord. 466, passed 4-9-2025) Penalty, see §
50.99
SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
§ 50.15 GARBAGE RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   Receptacles required. The solid waste contractor shall provide to the
occupant of every dwelling in the village a garbage container and a recycling
container. Residents shall use these containers for the disposal of garbage,
refuse and recyclables.
   (B)   Specifications. The containers will be those specified in the current
waste collection agreement.
   (C)   Placement and removal of containers.
      (1)   If the containers have lids or covers, they are to be kept covered
at all times and shall be kept or placed in a location that is least offensive
to persons living in the vicinity.
      (2)   All containers shall be placed at the street or curb side at the
scheduled time for collection and no more than 24 hours before the scheduled
collection time.
      (3)   No container shall remain on or next to the street right-of-way for
more than 24 hours after collection.
   (D)   Defective containers. Whenever any garbage or recycling container
becomes damaged and/or defective, the occupant of the property must bring that
container to the Village Hall and request a replacement.
(Ord. 370, passed 4-10-2013) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.16 ITEMS EXCLUDED FROM COLLECTION.
   The following items (and those items that are listed or further defined in
the solid waste collection agreement) shall not be collected by the solid waste
contractor:
   (A)   Bulky waste (including stoves, refrigerators, water tanks, washing
machines and furniture);
   (B)   Commercial and industrial refuse;
   (C)   Construction debris;
   (D)   Hazardous waste;
   (E)   Institutional solid waste;
   (F)   Large dead animals (those ten pounds or over);
   (G)   Offal waste;
   (H)   Stable matter;
   (I)   Vegetable waste; and
   (J)   Special waste (including waste iron from a commercial or industrial
activity, waste generated by an industrial process or a pollution control
process, waste which may contain free liquids; waste which may contain residue
and debris from the cleanup of a spill of petroleum or other chemicals,
asbestos-containing or asbestos-bearing materials, containers that once
contained hazardous substances, filter cake sludge wastes from wastewater
treatment processes, wastes containing any regulated polychlorinated biphenyls;
and ash, sludge, tires and powders).
(Ord. 370, passed 4-10-2013)
§ 50.17 PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Use of another receptacle. It shall be unlawful for any resident who
is not receiving collection service to place any garbage, refuse and recyclable
materials with the garbage, refuse and recyclable materials of a customer
receiving such services.
   (B)   Garbage on public ways. It shall be unlawful for any person to throw
or place, or to permit a person to throw or place, any garbage, refuse, ashes
or other rubbish upon any street, sidewalk, alley or other public place in the
village, other than in a designated garbage or recyclable container.
   (C)   Combustible refuse. It shall be unlawful to permit any combustible
material to be stored in such a way as to create a fire hazard.
(Ord. 370, passed 4-10-2013) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.18 COLLECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   The owners and occupants of properties which are supplied with village
water and sewer service shall be required to pay a service charge for curbside
waste and recycling collection, whether or not they use those collection
services; they shall be jointly and severally liable for payment.
   (B)   (1)   The collection service charge shall be included on the water/
sewer billing statement, and payment shall be due when the water and sewer fees
are due.
      (2)   The monthly service charge shall be as follows and will be
reflected on bills mailed on and after the stated date:
 
$14.33 effective 4-1-2023
$14.91 effective 4-1-2024
$15.50 effective 4-1-2025
$16.12 effective 4-1-2026
$16.77 effective 4-1-2027
 
   (C)   All water/sewer/garbage accounts shall be considered delinquent when
the bill is not paid by the stated due date. All delinquent accounts are
subject to the termination of all services. A lien may be recorded against the
property for which collection services are provided. Collection service shall
resume thereafter only after payment of the utility balance due, a $25 garbage
service reinstatement charge, any water/sewer disconnect and/or reconnect
charges and any lien recording and lien release fees.
(Ord. 370, passed 4-10-2013; Ord. 416, passed - -2019; Ord. 449, passed 11-9-
2022)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   A $250 fine will be charged to any resident of the town or any
person dumping at the site without authorization.
      (2)   The village will send out the fines to anyone that abuses §
50.01 of this chapter.
(Ord. 332, passed 6-14-2006)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
   
51.01   Application for services; conditions
   
51.02   Initial and minimum charges whether water used or not
   
51.03   Village’s responsibility and liability
   
51.04   Customer responsibility
   
51.05   Extension of mains
   
51.06   Change in occupancy; payment for services
   
51.07   Payment of bills
   
51.08   Rate schedule
§ 51.01 APPLICATION FOR SERVICES; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Water service shall be furnished to new customers (or to current
customers for service to be provided at another property or after service is
cancelled for non-payment), only upon the completion and filing of an
application and water users agreement with the village (upon a form to be
supplied by the village).
   (B)   No water service shall be furnished to a property unless and until an
applicant for service pays all debts that he or she owes to the village (or has
entered into a payment agreement on the debt and is current on payments made
under that agreement).
   (C)   If the water service is to be provided at a property that is not owner
occupied, it shall be provided on condition that the property owner shall be
liable to the village to pay any delinquent and unpaid water bills. No service
to any new tenant at that property shall be provided by the village if any
prior bills have not been paid in full.
(Ord. 274, passed 4-12-1995; Ord. 451, passed 7-12-2023)
§ 51.02 INITIAL AND MINIMUM CHARGES WHETHER WATER USED OR NOT.
   (A)   The rates as shown in the rate schedule in §
51.08 of this chapter shall be paid by each customer.
   (B)   The minimum rate will be paid by those customers not using the service
even though they may not be connected to the system; provided, the service is
available from the village.
   (C)   The tap-on-fee for service shall be $25.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to the above charges, a $100 deposit shall be paid
by all customers to guarantee payment of water bills. If the deposit was paid
for services at a non-owner-occupied property, the deposit shall be returned to
tenant, without interest, upon termination of water service and all accounts of
that tenant.
      (2)   If the deposit was paid for service at an owner-occupied property,
the deposit shall be returned to the owner, without interest, when the property
is sold or transferred to another party.
(Ord. 274, passed 4-12-1995; Ord. 381, passed 8-20-2014; Ord. 441, passed - -
2022)
§ 51.03 VILLAGE’S RESPONSIBILITY AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   Ownership, installation and maintenance.
      (1)   The village shall install, own and maintain the complete water
system, water mains and service lines to the property lines or a mutually
agreed upon point subject to the Village Board of Trustees determination that a
particular service is economically feasible to install.
      (2)   The village shall furnish, install and maintain a meter and
appurtenances including a shutoff valve. The shutoff valve shall be installed
on the customer’s property line or such other point determined by a duly
authorized representative of the village. The meter may be located hear the
shutoff valve or within the customer’s premises as determined by the village
representative. The meter and shutoff valve must be located at a point where it
is readily accessible.
   (B)   Refusal of service. The village may, at any time, refuse additional
service(s) to any applicant if, in the judgment of the Village Board of
Trustees, the capacity of the system will not permit such use.
   (C)   Liability. All water service supplied by the village shall be upon the
express condition that the village shall not be liable, nor shall any claim be
made against it for damages or injury caused by reason of shutting off water
for repair, relocation or expansion of any part of the system, or failure of
any part of the system or for concentration of water for such purposes as
firefighting or restricted used of water.
   (D)   Use of water on customer’s premises. The village shall reserve the
right to use the water from the customers facilities at any time deemed
necessary. No charge shall be made by the customer for the use of his or her
facilities and no charge shall be made by the village for the water used by the
village.
(Ord. 274, passed 4-12-1995)
§ 51.04 CUSTOMER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Installing and maintaining service lines. The customer shall be
responsible for installation and maintenance of service lines between the curb
stop and the residence or business. Such service lines must be at least three-
fourths inch in diameter, and must be installed at a minimum depth of four
feet. Service lines must have a minimum working pressure rating of 160 psi at
73.4 F, meet AWWA Standards and must be constructed of one of the following
types of materials: copper, (Type K), polyvinyl chloride (PVC), polyethylene or
polybutylene. Service lines must not be covered until they are inspected and
approved by a duly authorized village representative. The customer will not
connect any service line to any other water source. The service line must meet
any requirements of the state’s Environmental Protection Agency and the
Illinois Plumbing Code.
   (B)   Provisions for location of meter. The customer shall permit the meter
to be located upon his or her property.
   (C)   Easements. The customer shall give such easements and rights-of-way as
necessary to the village and allow access for the purposes of construction,
repair, maintenance, meter reading, relocation or expansion of the water
system. The necessity shall be determined by the Village Board of Trustees.
   (D)   Damage to village property.
      (1)   No customer shall tamper, adjust, damage or in any manner interfere
with the components or operation of the water system owned by the village. The
shutoff valve shall be opened only by a duly authorized representative of the
village. Penalty for tampering, damaging, adjusting or in any manner
interfering with the components or operation of the system shall be up to $500,
payable to the village. If the penalty is not paid within 30 days after the
amount is determined, the village shall shut off the water service. The amount
of penalty shall be determined by the Village Board of Trustees.
      (2)   In addition to the penalty, the customer responsible shall
reimburse the village for the actual cost of repairing any damage arising from
the customer’s act, plus an additional 25% of the actual cost for the time
spent by the village to repair it. Customers shall report any known evidence of
tampering, adjusting, damaging or interference with operation of the system,
owned by the village, to the Village Board of Trustees. Any malicious act or
damage to the system that is not appropriately punishable by the foregoing
shall be prosecuted through a court of law.
   (E)   Specified uses of water. Water purchased from the village may be used
for ordinary domestic, industrial or farm use upon the premises of the
customer; provided:
      (1)   No customer shall resell or permit the resale of water purchased
from the village; and
      (2)   Each dwelling, apartment, business and livestock tap is a separate
unit. The customer must make application for service for each unit, and each
unit shall have a separate cut-off valve, meter and service line, and the
customer shall pay the minimum monthly rate and other rates and fees herein
established for each unit.
   (F)   Cross-connections.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (F), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         BACKFLOW. Water of questionable quality, wastes or other contaminants
entering a public water supply system due to a reversal of flow.
         CROSS-CONNECTION. A connection or arrangement of piping or
appurtenance through which a backflow could occur.
         SAFE AIR GAP. The minimum distance of a water inlet or opening above
the maximum high water level or overflow rim in a fixture, device or container
to which public water is furnished which shall be at least two times the inside
diameter of the water inlet pipe; but shall not be less than one inch and need
not be more than 12 inches.
         SECONDARY WATER SUPPLY. A water supply system maintained in addition
to a public water supply, including, but not limited to, water systems from
ground or surface sources not meeting the requirements of Pub. Act No. 98 of
the Public Acts of 1913, as amended being §§ 325.201 to 325.214 of the Compiled
Laws of 1948, or water from a public water supply which in any way has been
treated, processed or exposed to any possible contaminant or stored in other
than an approved storage facility.
         SUBMERGED INLET. A water pipe or extension thereto from a public water
supply terminating in a tank, vessel, fixture or appliance which may contain
water of questionable quality, waste or other contaminant and which is
unprotected against backflow.
         WATER UTILITY. The village.
      (2)   Cross-connections prohibited. Cross-connections of public water
supply systems and any other water supply system or source including, but not
limited to, the following are prohibited:
         (a)   Between a public water supply system and a secondary water
supply;
         (b)   By submerged inlet;
         (c)   Between a lawn sprinkling system and the public water supply
system;
         (d)   Between a public water supply and piping which contain sanitary
waste or a chemical contaminant; and
         (e)   Between a public water supply system and piping immersed in a
tank or vessel which may contain a contaminant.
      (3)   Cross-connection control program. The water utility shall develop a
comprehensive control program for the elimination and prevention of all cross-
connections, and removal of all existing cross-connections and prevention of
all future cross-connections.
      (4)   Corrections and protection devices. Any user of the water utility
water shall obtain written approval from the water utility of any proposed
corrective action or protective device before using or installing it. The total
time allowed for completion of the necessary corrections shall be contingent
upon the degree of hazard involved and include the time required to obtain and
install equipment. If the cross-connection has not been removed within the time
as hereinafter specified, the water utility shall physically separate the water
system from the on-site piping system in such manner that the two systems
cannot be connected by any unauthorized person.
      (5)   Piping identification. When a secondary water source is used in
addition to the water supply, exposed water utility water and secondary water
piping shall be identified by distinguishing colors or tags and so maintained
that each pipe may be traced readily in its entirety, it will be necessary to
protect the water utility water supply at the service connection in a manner
acceptable to the water utility.
      (6)   Private water storage tanks. A private water storage tank supplied
from the water utility water supply system shall be deemed a secondary water
supply unless it is designed and approved for potable water usage.
      (7)   Elimination of existing cross-connections. Within one year from the
effective date of this section, all existing cross-connections to the water
utility water supply systems shall be eliminated. The expenses of such
elimination shall be that of the owner of the property on which such cross-
connection exists.
      (8)   Inspection. The water utility or any representative thereof shall
have the authority to inspect any premises to determine the presence of any
existing cross-connection and to order the elimination of such cross-
connection.
      (9)   Discontinuance of water service.
         (a)   The water utility shall discontinue water service after
reasonable notice to any person owning any property where a cross-connection in
violation of this code exists or where the user refuses to allow an inspection
to determine the presence of a cross-connection.
         (b)   The water utility may take such other precautionary measures as
necessary to eliminate any danger of the contamination of the water utility
water supply system.
         (c)   Water service to such property shall not be restored until such
cross-connection has been eliminated.
(Ord. 274, passed 4-12-1995)
§ 51.05 EXTENSION OF MAINS.
   (A)   Determination of who pays expense of extension. The Village Board of
Trustees shall first determine if an extension of water main in economically
feasible based on the estimated cost of the extension and the number of
existing potential users that will use water along the extension. If the
extension is economically feasible then the village may install and pay the
cost of the extension at the discretion of the Village Board of Trustees. If
the village elects not to pay the cost of extending the water main, then the
person or persons desiring water service shall install the extension at his,
her or their own personal expense upon written consent by the Village Board of
Trustees. The village shall not pay for any extensions to an undeveloped area
such as a subdivision being developed unless there are sufficient existing
residents or businesses to make the extension economically feasible.
   (B)   Requirements if extension is installed by someone other than the
village.
      (1)   The village must approve all plans and specifications for any
extensions.
      (2)   Before any extensions are installed, the plans and specifications
must be reviewed and approved by the state’s Environmental Protection Agency.
      (3)   Ownership, rights-of-way and title must be conveyed to the village
for all extensions installed by anyone other than the village. The village will
maintain the mains thereafter.
      (4)   No extension will be permitted if in the opinion of the Village
Board of Trustees the system does not have the necessary capacity to serve the
proposed extension.
(Ord. 274, passed 4-12-1995)
§ 51.06 CHANGE IN OCCUPANCY; PAYMENT FOR SERVICES.
   (A)   Notice to village. Any customer who moves shall provide written notice
to the village and request a termination of service. The notice shall be given
at least ten days prior to the date that service is to be terminated. The meter
shall be read by the village after receipt of that notice, and the customer
will be billed. If a customer fails to give written notice, the meter shall be
read as soon as it becomes known to the village that the customer has moved.
   (B)   Responsibility for payment of services. The water customer shall pay
all amounts owed to the village, including any late fees, for service provided
to the date of the change in occupancy or the date of termination of service,
whichever is later. If the property is not owner occupied, the property owner
is responsible for paying any and all unpaid bills for service to that
property.
   (C)   Charges for change. There shall be no charge for transferring water
service to the subsequent customer.
(Ord. 274, passed 4-12-1995; Ord. 451, passed 7-12-2023)
§ 51.07 PAYMENT OF BILLS.
   (A)   Due date. 
      (1)   The meters will be read by the village on or about the last day of
each month. If weather conditions or other circumstances prevent the reading of
meters then each water bill will be estimated by the village. Bills will be
mailed out by the twentieth day of each month and due on the fifth of the
following month. Bills will be paid to the Treasurer of the village or his or
her designated representative. Any customer who disputes the correctness of his
or her bill may contact the village to discuss the charges for clarification.
The customer may then contact the Village Mayor and request a hearing. The
customer must submit his contentions or complaint in writing. The hearing must
be held within 21 days after the bill was mailed. The Village Mayor is
authorized to order a hold on the disconnection until he or she makes a final
determination on the complaint.
      (2)   The village accepts the following forms of payment, subject to the
provisions of division (C): cash, check, money order, certified check, and ACH
withdrawal from the customer's bank account.
   (B)   Penalties for late payment.
      (1)   Late fee of $10. There will be a $10 late fee added to each bill
that remains unpaid ten days after its mailing, and it will be charged until
the account is closed or other arrangements are made with the village.
      (2)   Suspension of service; reconnect fee of $50. If any bill remains
unpaid 30 days after mailing, the water supply to the property affected will be
shut off by the village. A fee of $50 will be charged to reconnect or restore
service to the property. However, service will not be restored until the
delinquency, and all late fees and reconnect fees, are paid in full. The
village may, but is not required to, enter into a payment plan to allow utility
service to continue during the delinquency period; the payment plan shall
include all late fees and reconnect fees, and it may include a small
administrative fee.
      (3)   Cancellation of service after 90 days; closure of account. If any
bill remains unpaid 90 days or more after mailing, service to the property will
be cancelled, and the account shall be closed. A new application will be needed
to restore service, and the applicant must comply with the provisions of §
51.01 of this chapter before service can be restored.
      (4)   Debt collection measures. Whenever charges become delinquent, the
village is authorized under state law to record a lien against the real estate
for which utility service is supplied after sending
written notice of the delinquency to the owner of record (such as by providing
a copy of the delinquency notice that had been sent to the person who is
delinquent in paying the utility charges) and advising the owner that unpaid
charges or rates may create a lien on the real estate. Pursuant to this
authority, the village may record liens and may take other action to collect
the debts owed to it.
   (C)   Returned check fee.
      (1)   If the village receives two dishonored checks in a 12-month period
from a water customer, the water customer must pay a returned check fee of $25,
together with any other charges imposed by the bank.
      (2)   The Village Board may require that the amount due to bring the
account current be paid in cash or by cashier’s check or money order, and it
may require that subsequent payments be made in the same manner.
(Ord. 274, passed 4-12-1995; Ord. 397, passed 6-8-2016; Ord. 404, passed 8-7-
2017; Ord. 431, passed 4-14-2021; Ord. 434, passed 8-11-2021; Ord. 451, passed
7-12-2023; Ord. 467, passed 4-9-2025)
§ 51.08 RATE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The minimum monthly bill must be paid, whether or not water is used.
   (B)   The monthly bill will be computed on the following rate schedule:
 
First 1,000 gallons per month (and minimum charge) $15.30
Over 1,000 gallons per month                       $4 per 1,000 gallons
Bulk water                                         $2.60 per 1,000 gallons
 
(Ord. 274, passed 4-12-1995; Ord. 381, passed 8-20-2014; Ord. 414, passed 1-9-
2019)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
   
52.01   Use of public sewers required
   
52.02   Private sewage disposal
   
52.03   Building sewers and connections
   
52.04   Use of public sewers
   
52.05   Protection of sewage works from damage
   
52.06   Inspectors; powers and authority
   
52.07   Wastewater service charge
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
village or in any area under the jurisdiction of said village any human or
animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
village or in any area under the jurisdiction of said village any sewage or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   The owner of all the houses, building or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the village
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located any public sanitary (or combined) sewer of the
village is hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days
after date of official notice to do so; provided that, said public sewer is
within 100 feet (30.5 meters) of the property line.
(Ord. 303, passed 4-11-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.02 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary (or combined) sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
52.01(D) of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first
obtain a written permit signed by the Village Board of Trustees. The
application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the village,
which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and other
information as deemed necessary by the Village Board of Trustees. A permit and
inspection fee of $200 shall be paid to the village at the time the application
is filed.
   (C)   (1)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Village Board of Trustees. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at
any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall
notify the Village Board of Trustees when the work is ready for final
inspection, and before any underground portions are covered.
      (2)   The inspection shall be made within 24 hours of the receipt of
written notice by the Village Board of Trustees.
   (D)   (1)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with
all recommendations of the state’s Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act, being
225 ILCS 225/1 et seq., and Code and with the state’s Environmental Protection
Agency.
      (2)   No permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system
employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is
less than 6,000 square feet (558 square meters). No septic tank or cesspool
shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
52.01(D) of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
within 60 days in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools
and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled
with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, and at no expense to the village.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Director of the
county’s Health Department.
(Ord. 303, passed 4-11-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Village Board of Trustees.
   (B)   All disposal by any person into the sewer system is unlawful, except
those discharges in compliance with federal standards promulgated pursuant to
the Federal Act and more stringent state and local standards.
   (C)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential, wastewater service; and
         (b)   To commercial, institutional/governmental or industrial
wastewater service.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the village. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the Village Board of Trustees. A permit
and inspection fee of $200 for a residential or commercial building sewer
permit shall be paid to the village at the time the application is filed. The
industry, as a condition of permit authorization, must provide information
describing its wastewater constituents, characteristics and type of activity.
   (D)   A building sewer permit will only be issued and a sewer connection
shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the downstream sewerage
facilities, including sewers, pump stations and wastewater treatment
facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and efficiently
handle the additional anticipated waste load.
   (E)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
village from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer.
   (F)   (1)   Separate sewer required/exceptions. A separate and independent
building sewer shall be provided for every building; except that, where one
building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer
is available or can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining
alley, court, yard or driveway, the building sewer from the front building may
be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building
sewer.
      (2)   Sewer and storm sewer fees. As long as a building which has been
connected to the village sewer remains on a property and has not been
demolished (or is not in the process of being demolished), charges for the use
and maintenance of the village sewer and the use of the storm sewer (which
currently amount to $40.40/month) will continue to accrue and must be paid as
long as water service is being provided and the account has not been closed.
(An account shall be closed, under the village’s water regulations, if the
utility bill remains unpaid 90 days or more after its mailing.)
      (3)   Capping requirement. When a building is to be demolished, the sewer
must be capped at the stub within four feet of the main either by the Village
Superintendent or an authorized agent or representative of the village or by a
professional plumber retained by the property owner and performed under the
direct supervision of a village representative. The sewer use and maintenance
cost and the storm sewer fee will not be charged to a vacant property that has
a properly capped sewer.
      (4)   Capping fee. If a sewer is required to be capped, as required above
or by state law, but is not, the village may arrange for the capping and charge
the cost to the property owner, and it may issue a fine or penalty for the
failure to comply with the village sewer regulations. The village’s charge to
cap the sewer shall be $150 per hour or the fee that would be charged by a
professional plumber to do so, whichever is greater.
   (G)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and testing by the Village Mayor, to meet
all requirements of this chapter. The size, slope, alignment, materials of
construction of a building sewer and the methods to be used in excavating,
placing of the pipe, jointing, testing and back filling the trench, shall all
conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the village. In the absence of code
provisions or in amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth
in appropriate specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials,
Water Pollution Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9 and Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois shall apply.
   (H)   (1)   The public sewer is not designed to be low enough to drain
basements.
      (2)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building
drain shall be lifted by a means which is approved in accordance with division
(B) above and discharged to the building sewer.
   (I)   (1)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain, which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
      (2)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code, or other
applicable rules and regulations of the village or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials, Water
Pollution Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9 and Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois. All such
connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the Village Board of
Trustees before installation.
   (J)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Village
Board of Trustees when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the Village Board of Trustees or its representative.
   (K)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the village.
(Ord. 303, passed 4-11-2001 Ord. 395, passed 1-13-2016; Ord. 426, passed 10-14-
2020; Ord. 431, passed 4-14-2021; Ord. 434, passed 8-11-2021) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any storm
water, surface water, ground water roof runoff, subsurface drainage,
uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any
sanitary sewer. Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be
discharged to such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or
storm sewers, or to a natural outlet approved by the Village Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Industrial non-contact cooling water or unpolluted process waters
may be discharged on approval of the Village Board of Trustees, to a storm
sewer, combined sewer or natural outlet.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the sewage works; and/or
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Village Board of Trustees that such wastes can harm either the
sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment; have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property or
constitute a nuisance. In forming its opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Village Board of Trustees will give consideration to such factors
as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the
sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant and maximum limits established by
regulatory agencies. The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature greater than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 milligrams per liter (mg/l)
or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between 32 and 150°F (0 and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths
horsepower (0.56 kilowatts) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Village Board of Trustees;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes
or concentrated plating solution whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Village Board of Trustees for such materials;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Village Board of Trustees as necessary after treatment of
the composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Village Board of Trustees
in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Any wastes or waters having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (9)   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as Hg
at any time except as permitted by the Village Board of Trustees in compliance
with applicable state and federal regulations;
      (10)   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 mg/l at any time except as
permitted by the Village Board of Trustees in compliance with applicable state
and federal regulations;
      (11)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
“slugs”, as defined herein.
      (12)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
   (D)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated herein, and/or which are in violation of the
standards for pretreatment provided in 40 C.F.R. part 403, 6-26-1978 and any
amendments thereto, and which in the judgment of the Village Board of Trustees
may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or
receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a
public nuisance, the Village Board of Trustees may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
hereof.
   (E)   If the Village Board of Trustees permits the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of, and subject to the
requirements of Village Board of Trustees, all applicable codes, ordinances and
laws.
   (F)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Village Board of Trustees they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any
flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients; except that, such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Village
Board of Trustees, and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible
for cleaning and inspection. Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing
facilities are provided, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (G)   Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole and, when
required by the Village Board of Trustees, the owner of any property serviced
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Village Board
of Trustees. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense,
and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all
times.
   (H)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the Village Board of Trustees or
regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the discharge.
   (I)   (1)   The number, type and frequency of laboratory analyses to be
performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the village, but no less than
once per year the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents
of the wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state
and local standards are being met. The owner shall report the results of
measurements and laboratory analyses to the village at such times and in such a
manner as prescribed by the village.
      (2)   The owner shall bear the expense of all measurements, analyses, and
reporting required by the village. At such times as deemed necessary, the
village reserves the right to take measurements and samples for analysis by an
outside laboratory service.
   (J)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Illinois Environmental Protection Agency
Division of Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods, and shall be determined
at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples taken at said control
manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been required the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be
carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of
constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to
life, limb and property. The particular analyses involved will determine
whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or
whether a grab sample or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD
and suspended solids analyses are obtained from 24-hour composites of all
outfalls, whereas pH is determined from periodic grab samples.
   (K)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the village and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the village for treatment, subject to payment therefor, in
accordance with §
52.07 of this chapter, by the industrial concern provided such payments are in
accordance with federal and state guidelines for user charge system.
(Ord. 303, passed 4-11-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05 PROTECTION OF SEWAGE WORKS FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this provision shall be
subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct and shall be
fined for the violation.
(Ord. 303, passed 4-11-2001) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.06 INSPECTORS; POWERS AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Village Board of Trustees and other duly authorized employees of
the village, the state’s Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, bearing proper credentials and identification,
shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The Village Board of Trustees, or its
representative shall have no authority to inquire into any processes, including
metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper or other industries
beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge
to the sewers or waterway or facilities for waste treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Village Board of Trustees, or duly authorized
employees of the village, the state’s Environmental Protection Agency and the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency shall observe all safety rules applicable
to the premises established by the company and the company shall be held
harmless for injury or death to the village employees and the village shall
indemnify the company against liability claims and demands for personal injury
or property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging
and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure
of the company to maintain conditions as required in §
52.04 of this chapter.
   (C)   The Village Board of Trustees and other duly authorized employees of
the village bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the village holds a duly negotiated
easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage
works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on
said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 303, passed 4-11-2001)
§ 52.07 WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   Basis for wastewater service charges.
      (1)   The wastewater service charge for the use of and for service
supplied by the wastewater facilities of the village shall consist of a basic
service fee, a capital improvement charge, a usage charge and applicable
surcharges.
      (2)   The basic service fee is computed by apportioning the annual debt
service charge evenly among all users, as a fixed charge per billing period.
      (3)   The capital improvement charge is levied on users to provide for
capital improvements, extensions or reconstruction of the sewage treatment
works. The capital improvement charge is computed by apportioning the annual
amount to be as a fixed charge per billing period.
      (4)   (a)   The usage charge is levied on all users to recover the
operation, maintenance and replacement costs (O&M) and shall be based on water
usage as recorded by water meters or sewage meters for wastes having the follow
[ ng normal domestic concentrations:
            1.   A five-day, 20°C biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) of 200 mg/l;
and
            2.   A suspended solids (SS) content of 220 mg/l.
         (b)   The usage charge shall be computed as follows:
            1.   Estimate the annual wastewater volume, pounds of BOD and
pounds of SS to be treated;
            2.   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities, including a replacement fund for the year,
for all works categories;
            3.   Proportion the estimated O&M costs to each user class by
volume, BOD and SS;
            4.   Proportion the estimated O&M costs to wastewater facility
categories by volume, BOD and SS;
            5.   Compute costs per 1,000 gallons for normal domestic strength
sewage; and
            6.   Compute surcharge costs per pound for BOD and SS
concentrations in excess of normal domestic strengths.
      (5)   (a)   A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters exceed
the normal domestic concentrations of BOD (200 mg/l) and SS (220 mg/l). The
surcharge will be based on water usage as recorded by water meters or sewage
meters for all wastes which exceed the 200 mg/l and 220 mg/l concentrations for
BOD and SS respectively.
         (b)   The concentration of wastes used for computing surcharges shall
be established by waste sampling. Waste sampling shall be performed as often as
may be deemed necessary by the Village Board of Trustees and shall be binding
as a basis for surcharges.
      (6)   The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall be reviewed,
not less often than annually, by certified public accountants for the village
in their annual audit report. The wastewater service charge shall be revised
personally to reflect a change in local capital costs or O&M costs.
      (7)   The users of the wastewater treatment services will be notified
annually, in conjunction with a regular bill, of the rate and that portion of
the user charges which are attributable to the wastewater operation,
maintenance and replacement.
   (B)   Measurement of flow. The volume of flow used for computing usage
charge and surcharges shall be the metered water consumption read to the lowest
even increment of 100 gallons.
      (1)   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures
any part or all, of his or her water from sources other than the public
waterworks system, all or part of which is discharged into the public sewers,
the person shall install and maintain, at his or her expense, water meters of a
type approved by the Village Board of Trustees for the purpose of determining
the volume of water obtained from these other sources.
      (2)   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be
required by the Village Board of Trustees if these volumes cannot otherwise be
determined from the metered water consumption records.
      (3)   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is cancelled,
without the consent of the Village Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Basic service fee. There shall be and there is hereby established a
basic service fee of $22 per month to be applied to all users to cover debt
retirement.
   (D)   Capital improvement charge. There shall be and there is hereby
established a capital improvement charge of $0.00 per month to all users.
   (E)   Usage charge.
      (1)   In addition to the basic service fee of $22, a minimum use charge
of $13.40 per month shall be applied to all users to cover operation and
maintenance costs.
      (2)   Usage in excess of 1,000 gallons per month will be charged at a
rate of $2.15 per 1,000 gallons to cover operation and maintenance costs.
   (F)   Surcharge rates.
      (1)   The rates of surcharges for BOD and SS shall be as follows:
         (a)   BOD: $0.516 per pound of BOD in excess of 200 mg/l; and
         (b)   SS: $0.438 per pound of SS in excess of 220 mg/l.
      (2)   The surcharges for excess BOD and SS shall be computed as follows:
         SB= $0.516 x (b - 200) x V + 120,000
         SS = $0.438 x (s- 220) x V + 120,000
      (3)   Where:
         SB = BOD surcharge, if applicable
         b = Concentration of BOD (mg/l)
         V = Wastewater volume for the billing period (gallons)
         SS = SS surcharge, if applicable
         s = Concentration of SS (mg/l)
   (G)   Computation of wastewater service charge.
      (1)   The wastewater service charge shall be computed by the following
formula:
      A = B + C + M + (V - 1,000) x U + SB + SS
      (2)   Where:
      A = Amount of wastewater service charge ($) per billing period
      B = Basic service fee
      C = Capital improvement charge
      M = Minimum use charge
      V = Wastewater volume for the billing period
      U = Unit cost for volume in excess of minimum
      SB= BOD surcharge, if applicable
      SS = SS surcharge, if applicable
(Ord. 304, passed 4-11-2001; Ord. 381, passed 8-20-2014)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter
shall be served by the village with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   The village may revoke any permit for sewage disposal as a result
of any violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person who remains in violation beyond the time limit provided for
in division (A) above shall be fined, per violation, not less than $50 and not
more than either $750 or the current maximum fine allowed under 65 ILCS 5/1-2-
1, whichever is greater. Each day on which a violation continues to exist shall
be considered a separate violation.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the village by reasons of such violation.
(Ord. 303, passed 4-11-2001; Ord. 395, passed 1-13-2016)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES
      
71.   PARKING RESTRICTIONS
CHAPTER 70: NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES
Section
   
70.01   Authorization
   
70.02   Definition
   
70.03   Restricted streets and highways
   
70.04   Age restriction; license requirement
   
70.05   Equipment; minimum requirements
   
70.06   Operation regulations
   
70.07   Registration/permit requirements
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Operation of non-highway vehicles on streets, roads and highways, see 625
ILCS 5/11-1426.1
§ 70.01 AUTHORIZATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a non-highway vehicle on any
street or roadway within the village, except as expressly authorized in this
chapter.
(Ord. 410, passed 7-12-2018)
§ 70.02 DEFINITION.
   As used in this chapter, a NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLE is a motor vehicle that is
not specifically designed to be used on a public highway, including:
   (A)   An all-terrain vehicle (ATV), as defined by § 1-101.8;
   (B)   A golf cart, as defined by § 1-123.9;
   (C)   An off-highway motorcycle, as defined by § 1-153.1; and
   (D)   A recreational off-highway vehicle, as defined by § 1-168.8.
(Ord. 410, passed 7-12-2018)
§ 70.03 RESTRICTED STREETS AND HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   The NHV may be operated only on village streets and roadways where the
posted speed limit is 35 mph or less. However, the NHV may cross a road or
street at an intersection where the road or street has a posted speed limit of
more than 35 mph.
   (B)   A person operating a NHV may not make a direct crossing upon or across
a highway under the state’s jurisdiction, except at an intersection of that
highway with another public street, road or highway. However, no direct
crossing upon or across a toll road, interstate highway or controlled access
highway is allowed.
(Ord. 410, passed 7-12-2018)
§ 70.04 AGE RESTRICTION; LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   A person may not operate a NHV if he or she is under age 18 or if he or she
does not have a valid driver’s license issued by the Secretary of State or by a
foreign jurisdiction.
(Ord. 410, passed 7-12-2018)
§ 70.05 EQUIPMENT; MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   A NHV may not be operated within the village limits unless the vehicle has
the following equipment: brakes; a steering apparatus; tires; a rearview
mirror; red reflectorized warning devices in the front and rear; a slow moving
vehicle emblem on the rear of the vehicle (as required of other vehicles in 625
ILCS 5/12-709); a headlight that emits a white light visible from a distance of
500 feet to the front; a tail lamp that emits a red light visible from at least
100 feet from the rear; brake lights; turn signals; and seat belts.
(Ord. 410, passed 7-12-2018)
§ 70.06 OPERATION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A NHV may be operated on village streets from one-half hour before
sunrise to one-half hour after sunset; however, the vehicle may not be operated
if visibility is impaired by weather, smoke, fog or when there is insufficient
light to see persons and vehicles at a distance of 500 feet.
   (B)   A NHV shall not be operated on any village sidewalks and may not be
parked in spaces marked for the use of physically impaired drivers.
   (C)   An operator of a NHV must use seatbelts in accordance with 625 ILCS 5/
12-603.1 and 625 ILCS 25/1 et seq. and with any other applicable state laws.
   (D)   When operated on a roadway, a NHV shall have its headlight and tail
lamps lighted at all times.
   (E)   A person shall not operate a NHV if he or she is impaired, such as
under the influence of alcohol or other drugs.
   (F)   A person who operates a NHV must carry any vehicle insurance required
by state law. Documentation of valid insurance must be submitted to a village
official or to a public safety officer upon request.
(Ord. 410, passed 7-12-2018)
§ 70.07 REGISTRATION/PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A person who intends to operate a NHV on village streets and roadways
shall first register it with the village and obtain a permit for its operation.
The permit shall be visibly displayed on the slow moving vehicle placard at the
rear of the vehicle.
   (B)   The NHV permit shall be valid for three years. The permit fee, per
vehicle, shall be set by the Village Board (and is currently $30 for a three-
year period). The fee may be reviewed as needed and changed by a majority vote
of the Village Board taken at a regular Board meeting.
(Ord. 410, passed 7-12-2018)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of $100 for the
first offense and $300 for the second offense in a 12-month period. A person
charged with a third offense in a 12-month period shall pay a fine of $500 and
shall have his or her permit permanently revoked. A person charged with a
violation also shall pay all costs of prosecution, including all post-judgment
costs and fees.
(Ord. 410, passed 7-12-2018)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING RESTRICTIONS
Section
   
71.01   Unlawful parking at designated locations
   
71.02   Restricted street parking of semi-trucks
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 UNLAWFUL PARKING AT DESIGNATED LOCATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to park a vehicle on any street or roadway
within the village where parking is limited or prohibited.
(Ord. 463, passed 3-12-2025)
§ 71.02 RESTRICTED STREET PARKING OF SEMI-TRUCKS.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this chapter, it shall be
unlawful to park a semi-truck at the following locations within the village
limits:
      (1)   E. Church Street, from S. Worrell Street to S. Elm Street; and
      (2)   E. 4th Street, from N. Walnut Street to N. Bosworth Street.
   (B)   The village shall place signs in the areas stated above, notifying the
general public of the unauthorized parking areas. The village also may place
curb markings or some other type of markings appropriate for safety.
   (C)   A semi-truck may park in the restricted area only in the event of an
emergency and for no longer than 24 hours in order to resolve the emergency.
(Ord. 463, passed 3-12-2025)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of $100 for
the first offense in a 12-month period, $300 for a second violation in a 12-
month period, and $500 for a third or subsequent violation in a 12-month
period.
   (B)   If the village must prosecute the violation in court, the person or
entity violating this chapter also must pay all costs of prosecution, post-
judgment relief, and collection, including all attorney fees, costs, and post-
judgment expenses.
(Ord. 463, passed 3-12-2025)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
92.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
93.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
   
90.01   Running at-large prohibited
   
90.02   Rabies inoculation; biting
   
90.03   Impounding at-large animals
   
90.04   Noise, disturbance prohibited
   
90.05   Habitual animal offender
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 RUNNING AT-LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, harbors or keeps dogs or cats
to permit such dogs or cats to run at-large within the municipality. Any dog or
cat found upon any public street, sidewalk, alley, parkway or any unenclosed
place (other than the premises or yard owned or rented by the owner of the dog
or cat or owned or rented by a member of the family of the owner of the dog or
cat) shall be deemed as “running at-large” unless such dog or cat is firmly
held on a leash or is in an enclosed vehicle.
(Ord. 232, passed 7-14-1982) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 RABIES INOCULATION; BITING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to keep any adult dog or cat if that animal has
not had its rabies or other inoculations administered by a licensed
veterinarian as required by state law or by county regulations.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the owner or person having custody of any dog
or cat which bites any human being to keep such dog or cat locked up in an
enclosure for a period of two weeks following the time that the dog or cat has
bitten the person; and to have the dog or cat examined by a physician or
licensed veterinarian at the commencement and termination of this two-week
period. If such dog or cat, during this period, shall die or shall show
definite signs of illness, it shall be the duty of such owner or person having
custody of the dog or cat to retain the animal and contact the Village Mayor
and the County Sheriff immediately to make arrangements for the examination and
disposal of the animal.
(Ord. 232, passed 7-14-1982; Ord. 364, passed 8-8-2012) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 IMPOUNDING AT-LARGE ANIMALS.
   Any dog or cat found upon a public street or highway or running at-large
within the municipality shall be impounded at the County Pound, if a pound is
available. The animal’s owner or custodian shall be responsible to pay all fees
and expenses relating to impounding, maintenance, and disposition of it.
(Ord. 232, passed 7-14-1982)
§ 90.04 NOISE, DISTURBANCE PROHIBITED.
   No person who owns, harbors or keeps dogs, cats or other animals shall allow
the animal to continuously howl, yelp, whine, meow, bark or to make noise in
such a manner as to disturb any person or neighborhood.
(Ord. 360, passed 1-18-2012) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 HABITUAL ANIMAL OFFENDER.
   It shall be unlawful to be a habitual animal offender. A HABITUAL ANIMAL
OFFENDER, for the purposes of this section, is any animal owner or keeper who,
within any one-year period, has violated the animal care and control
regulations of this chapter three or more times. The controlling date is the
date of the violation, not the date of any ticket or court order. A habitual
animal offender shall have his or her animals removed and shall not be allowed
to keep animals for a period of three to ten years, as determined by the
Village Board.
(Ord. 360, passed 1-18-2012; Ord. 364, passed 8-8-2012) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter, aiding the violation of
this chapter or resisting, obstructing or impeding any authorized officer in
enforcing this chapter, shall be fined the sum of $50 for the first violation,
$100 for the second violation occurring within a 12-month period and $150 for
the third and each successive violation within a 12-month period. Each day that
a person fails to comply constitutes a separate offense. If legal action must
be taken to enforce the provisions of this chapter, the village shall recover,
in addition to the required fine, all costs and fees, including attorney’s
fees.
(Ord. 232, passed 7-14-1982; Ord. 357, passed 8-9-2011)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Nuisances
   
91.01   Nuisance prohibited
   
91.02   Nuisance defined and declared
   
91.03   Non-exclusivity
   
91.04   Authority; report, investigation
   
91.05   Nuisances enumerated
   
91.06   Written notice to abate
   
91.07   Discontinuance; abatement
 
   
91.99   Penalty
NUISANCES
§ 91.01 NUISANCE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this subchapter for any person to
willfully or negligently create, erect, maintain or permit a nuisance to exist
anywhere within the village.
(Ord. 268, passed 3-9-1994) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 NUISANCE DEFINED AND DECLARED.
   (A)   A NUISANCE is generally defined as any thing, act, omission,
occupation or condition which shall exist or continue for such length of time
so as to:
      (1)   Substantially annoy, injure or endanger the health, safety, peace
or welfare of the public;
      (2)   In any way render the public insecure in life or property;
      (3)   Greatly offend the public morals or decency; and
      (4)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or render
dangerous for passage, any street, sidewalk, alley, navigable body or other
public way or place.
   (B)   Any nuisance declared by statute, this subchapter or other provisions
of ordinances of the village shall be enforceable under the provisions of this
subchapter as if enumerated specifically herein.
(Ord. 268, passed 3-9-1994)
§ 91.03 NON-EXCLUSIVITY.
   Nuisances enumerated in this subchapter shall not be deemed exclusive, but
are in addition to, and to be construed in conjunction with, any other
nuisances enumerated in statutes or other provisions of ordinances of the
village.
(Ord. 268, passed 3-9-1994)
§ 91.04 AUTHORITY; REPORT, INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   For the purpose of discovering nuisances, it shall be the duty of any
village official to investigate, confirm and report any nuisances coming to
their attention.
   (B)   Whenever any nuisance shall be reported to, or investigated and
determined by, any village official, notice shall be given to the owner or
person in control of the property or premises involved, and to the Village
Board for the purposes of insuring abatement of such nuisance.
(Ord. 268, passed 3-9-1994)
§ 91.05 NUISANCES ENUMERATED.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and a danger to the health,
safety, welfare, peace and comfort of the village and its residents for any
person:
      (1)   To conduct any business or to use any premises so as to create an
offensive or foul odor which taints the air and renders it nauseous to persons
in the vicinity;
      (2)   To cause or permit to be collected or to remain upon any premises
or place any animal carcass, or any offal, filth, excretion or other noisome or
noxious animal matter of any kind which is, or is likely to become, putrid,
foul or offensive;
      (3)   To cause or permit to be collected or to remain upon any premises
or place any slop or other vegetable matter of any kind which is, or is likely
to become, putrid, foul or offensive;
      (4)   To cause or to permit any cellar, vault, cistern, drain, privy,
yard or other premises whatsoever to become, from any cause, foul or offensive
or injurious to the public health;
      (5)   To permit to be collected or to stand upon any premises any foul or
stagnant water of any kind;
      (6)   To locate or maintain, or permit to exist or remain, anywhere
within the village any stable or pigsty;
      (7)   To use, deposit or keep any property, substance or thing emitting
or causing any foul, offensive, noisome, nauseous or noxious odor, effluvia or
stench particularly repulsive to the physical senses and which annoys,
discomforts or endangers the welfare, health or safety of any person;
      (8)   To allow the deposit or accumulation of any refuse, oil rags,
rubbish or other materials or substances of any kind, so as to constitute a
fire hazard;
      (9)   To allow the deposit, accumulation, existence or growth upon any
property of any dry or dead weeds, grass, vegetation or other like substances
of any kind, so as to constitute a fire hazard;
      (10)   To keep or suffer to be kept upon or about his or her premises or
upon vacant property or public streets or public property within the village
any goat, sheep, hog, cattle, fowl or other animal, reptile or serpent other
than domesticated house pets;
      (11)   To cause or permit any weeds, such as jimson, burdock, rag weed,
thistle, cockle burr or other weeds of a like kind, to grow in any lot or tract
of land in the village;
      (12)   To cause or permit any weeds, grass or plants other than trees,
bushes, flowers, vegetables or other ornamental plants to grow to a height
exceeding 12 inches anywhere in the village; or
      (13)   To permit more than four dogs (over the age of six months) to
remain in or about any single-family residence, building or lot, or to permit
more than two dogs (over the age of six months) in any single-family unit in
any multiple-housing building within the village; any person who currently
exceeds the number of allowable pets has three months from the effective date
of this subchapter to remove the extra pets and to comply with this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   It is hereby declared a menace to the public’s safety, and a
nuisance for any person, to maintain any buildings or structures which are in
unsanitary condition, or in an unsafe or dangerous condition or which, in any
manner, endangers the health or safety of any person or persons.
      (2)   Every building or part thereof which is in an unsanitary condition
by reason of the basement or cellar being damp or wet, or by reason of the
floor of such basement or cellar being covered with stagnant water, or by
reason of the presence of sewer gas, or by reason of any portion of the
building being infected with disease or being unfit for human habitation, or
which, by reason of any other unsanitary condition, is the source of sickness
or which endangers the public health, is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance.
   (C)   It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and a nuisance for
any person to cause or permit the existence or storage in any place accessible
to children of any abandoned or discarded refrigerator, icebox, ice chest, deep
freeze or other air-tight appliance or container of any kind, of a capacity of
one and one-half cubic feet or more, from which the lids, doors or other covers
have not been removed or which cannot easily be opened by a child, by means of
pushing only, from the inside thereof.
   (D)   It is hereby declared a nuisance to the public safety and a nuisance
for any person to cause or permit the existence or storage upon any premises
within the village for more than 15 days of:
      (1)   Any unused, stripped, junked, wrecked or otherwise inoperable motor
vehicle of any kind, or of any other vehicle, implement, machinery, equipment
or other personal property of any kind, which is no longer safely operable or
usable for the purpose for which it was manufactured;
      (2)   Any parts of such motor vehicle or equipment or old iron, metal,
glass, paper, cordage or other waste or discarded secondhand material which has
been a part, or intended to be a part, of any motor vehicle, the sum of which
parts of material shall be equal in bulk to one or more automobiles, except
within a duly licensed junkyard; provided, however, that, this division (D)
shall not be construed to apply to any such motor vehicle or equipment and the
like that is kept within a building when not in use, or to historical motor
vehicles maintained as such, over 25 years of age; or
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE means any
motor vehicle from which the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed,
or on which the engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or
otherwise so treated as to render the vehicle incapable of being safely driven
under its own motor power; provided, however, that, this definition shall not
be construed to include any motor vehicle which has been rendered temporarily
incapable of being driven under its own motor power in order to perform
ordinary service or repair operations.
(Ord. 268, passed 3-9-1994; Ord. 360, passed 1-18-2012)
§ 91.06 WRITTEN NOTICE TO ABATE.
   (A)   Notice by publication.
      (1)   In addition to all other forms of public notification currently
utilized by the village, the village shall cause a public notice to be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the village once per week
for two consecutive weeks in the month of April of each year.
      (2)   The notice shall be published in advertising format in the
following form or in a substantially similar form:
 
VILLAGE OF BOWEN
PUBLIC NOTICE OF NUISANCE VIOLATIONS AND ABATEMENT
RELATING TO WEEDS, GRASS AND OTHER VEGETATION
The Village of Bowen requests that Bowen property owners and residents take notice of
the following provisions set forth in its nuisance regulations concerning allowable
vegetation:
   1.   All noxious weeds are declared a nuisance.
   2.   All weeds and grass that are allowed to grow to a height of 7” or more are
declared a nuisance.
   3.   All shrubbery and other vegetation that grows or stands or is uncontrolled on
property so as to constitute an obstruction to the traveling public are declared a
nuisance.
If a village representative observes a nuisance, it will enter the property to verify
the violation and will send a written notice to the owner and occupant that describes
the nuisance and directs them to remove the nuisance by a specific date. If the
nuisance is not removed by that date, or if the person receiving notice does not
contact the village before the deadline and obtain an extension, the village may
remove the nuisance. If the village removes the nuisance, its costs will be the
responsibility of the owner and occupant. If a second or subsequent violation occurs
within a 12-month period, the village may take action to abate the nuisance without
sending notice to the owner and occupant, and the same fines, costs, and penalties
will be assessed. The village also may initiate an ordinance violation action in the
Circuit Court of Hancock County, and shall be allowed to recover all fines, costs and
penalties, and any attorney fees incurred in the prosecution of the action.
 
   (B)   Written notice to owner and occupant.
      (1)   When a nuisance described in this subchapter is observed or
reported to the village, the village (by a designated person or persons) shall
issue to the owner and occupant of the property a written notice entitled
“notice to abate nuisance”. The notice shall identify the property, describe
the nature of the nuisance and direct the owner and occupant to abate the
nuisance or obstruction by a specific date.
      (2)   (a)   If a second or subsequent violation occurs within a 12-month
period, the village may take action to abate the nuisance without sending
notice to the owner and occupant, and the same fines, costs and penalties will
be assessed.
         (b)   The village also may initiate an ordinance violation action in
the Circuit Court of the county, and shall be allowed to recover all fines,
costs and penalties and any attorney fees incurred in the prosecution of the
action.
      (3)   The “notice to abate nuisance” shall contain the following warning,
or a substantially similar warning:
 
WARNING
In addition to the public notice published in the newspaper during April of this
year, and any other forms of public notification, this notice may serve as the
village’s sole notice to you that, if there are any additional occurrences of
the growth of weeds and grass of seven inches or more in height, the village may
come upon your property to investigate and remove that nuisance, and the owner
and occupant will be assessed the cost of abatement without any additional or
further notice.
 
   (C)   Service of notice.
      (1)   If the property in violation is occupied, then the notice of
violation shall be served upon the occupant by personal service or by mail
(with delivery confirmation). If the occupant is not the owner, a copy of the
notice also shall be served upon the owner by personal service or by mail (with
delivery confirmation).
      (2)   However, if the property is unoccupied or vacant, then the notice
shall be served upon the owner by mail (with delivery confirmation) at his or
her last known address. If the owner’s address is unknown, then the notice
shall be served by posting it on the property.
(Ord. 268, passed 3-9-1994; Ord. 418, passed - -2019)
§ 91.07 DISCONTINUANCE; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   It is hereby declared the duty of any person determined to have
created, caused, erected, maintained or permitted a nuisance to exist within
the village to discontinue and abate such nuisance within 48 hours or such
other time period as may be specified therein, from the time he or she receives
written notice thereof.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this subchapter for any person
to neglect, refuse or otherwise fail to remove or abate any nuisance after
expiration of the 48-hour or other specified time period provided by notice
thereof; and each 24 hours, or fraction thereof, during which such nuisance
continues or exists shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Whenever any nuisance is not abated by the owner, lessee or person in
control of premises or property affected within the time provided by notice,
the Village Board may cause the abatement or removal of such nuisance.
   (D)   The abatement expenses incurred by the village to remove the nuisance
are debts owed jointly and severally by the occupant and owner of the premises
that is in violation. The debt may be collected by any means allowed by law. If
a lien relating to that debt is recorded, the lien shall be superior to all
other liens and encumbrances to the extent permitted by state law.
(Ord. 268, passed 3-9-1994; Ord. 397, passed - -2016)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   (1)   Any violation of §§
91.01 through
91.07 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $50, nor
more than $750, for each such offense, and each day that a violation exists
constitutes a separate offense.
      (2)   If the Village Attorney must take further legal steps to ensure
compliance with §§
91.01 through
91.07 of this chapter, abatement of the nuisance and/or payment of the required
fine, the village shall be entitled to recover all costs and fees associated
with the enforcement of §§
91.01 through
91.07 of this chapter, including its attorney fees, in addition to the daily
non-compliance penalty.
(Ord. 268, passed 3-9-1994; Ord. 357, passed 8-9-2011)
CHAPTER 92: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Public nuisance
   
92.03   Abandonment of vehicles prohibited
   
92.04   Notification to village
   
92.05   Disposition of abandoned vehicle
   
92.06   Costs
   
92.07   Emergency tows
   
92.08   Immunity
   
92.09   Provisions non-exclusive
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any motor vehicle or other vehicle, boat, trailer or mobile home
which is in a state of disrepair, partially dismantled, wrecked or otherwise
inoperable so as to render the vehicle incapable of being driven or used in its
condition; or, any motor vehicle or other vehicle, boat, trailer or mobile home
which has not been moved or used for seven consecutive days or more and is
apparently deserted. Any evidence that a motor vehicle has not been moved,
under its own power (as distinct from being towed, pushed or pulled) for seven
consecutive days or more and does not have current license tag registration
(“unregistered”), shall be prima facie evidence that the vehicle is abandoned
within the meaning hereof.
      (2)   The term ABANDONED VEHICLE, as aforesaid, shall not be construed to
include for the purposes of this chapter, any such vehicle, boat, trailer or
mobile home which is kept in an enclosed building or on the premises of a
business enterprise operated in a lawful place and manner when necessary to the
operation of such business enterprises.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street or highway, whether subject to or exempt
from registration. It shall include, for purposes hereof, any motor vehicle or
other vehicle, boat, trailer or mobile home.
(Ord. 322, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 92.02 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   The Village Board of Trustees finds that abandoned vehicles constitute
a safety hazard and a public nuisance; are detrimental to the health, safety
and welfare of the general public by harboring disease, providing breeding
places for vermin, inviting plundering, creating fire hazards and presenting
physical dangers to children and others; produce scenic blights which degrade
the environment and adversely affect land values and the proper maintenance and
continuing development of the village; and require local governmental attention
in order to assure the expeditious removal of these abandoned vehicles.
   (B)   The Village Board of Trustees declares, therefore, that it is the
policy of the village to prohibit the abandonment of vehicles and to enforce
such prohibition by law.
(Ord. 322, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 92.03 ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to cause or permit any motor vehicle or other
vehicle, boat, trailer or mobile home, or any part thereof, to be abandoned on
private or public property, including, without limitation, any highway, street
or alley within the village, or otherwise to be considered an abandoned
vehicle.
   (B)   Any such abandoned vehicle is hereby declared a nuisance whether on
public or private property, including, but not limited to, the property of the
owner or possessor of the same.
(Ord. 322, passed 7-14-2014) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 NOTIFICATION TO VILLAGE.
   (A)   When any abandoned vehicle comes into the temporary possession or
custody of any person in the village not the owner of such vehicle, such person
shall immediately notify the village of such abandoned vehicle.
   (B)   Upon receiving such notification or otherwise discovering an abandoned
vehicle, such vehicle shall be disposed of in accordance with §
92.05 of this chapter, or as otherwise allowed by law.
(Ord. 322, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 92.05 DISPOSITION OF ABANDONED VEHICLE.
   Any vehicle abandoned in violation of this chapter shall be disposed of in
accordance with this section or as otherwise allowed by law.
   (A)   Identifying and tracing vehicle ownership.
      (1)   Upon receiving notification of or otherwise discovering an
abandoned vehicle, the village shall, if it does not already know the identity
of the registered owner or other person legally entitled thereto, cause the
vehicle and license registration records of the Secretary of State of the State
of Illinois, or foreign state if applicable, to be searched utilizing the
vehicle identification number and license plate year and number displayed on
the vehicle, if any.
      (2)   The owner of such vehicle as disclosed from such search shall be
the owner of such vehicle for the purposes of the disposition of such vehicle.
      (3)   The village shall further cause the motor vehicles files of the
State Police to be searched by a directed communication to the State Police for
stolen or wanted information on the vehicle.
      (4)   When the State Police files are searched with negative results, the
information contained in the National Crime Information Center (NCIC) files
shall be searched in accordance with state law by the State Police.
      (5)   When the registered owner or other person legally entitled to the
possession of a vehicle cannot be identified from the registration files of the
State of Illinois or from the registration files of a foreign state, if
applicable, the village shall so notify the State Police for the purpose of
identifying the vehicle owner or other person legally entitled to the
possession of the vehicle.
   (B)   Notification of owner.
      (1)   (a)   When the identity of the owner or other person legally
entitled to an abandoned vehicle is known or has been determined in accordance
with division (A) above, the village shall cause such owner or other person to
be given notice that such vehicle has been determined to be an abandoned
vehicle in violation of this chapter and that unless such vehicle is removed
within five days from the date such notice is mailed, postage prepaid, by
certified mail, the vehicle will be towed and impounded in accordance herewith,
and the owner will be charged with having violated this chapter.
         (b)   The village may cause, but is not required to personally serve
such notice on such owner or other person, and need not establish whether such
notice is actually received if mailed.
         (c)   In those instances where the certified notification specified
herein has been returned by the postal authorities to the village due to the
addressee having moved, being unknown at the address obtained from the
registration records of the state, or having refused delivery, the sending of a
second certified notice is not required.
         (d)   A copy of such notice shall also be served upon any lienholder
if the same has been disclosed by the title search required above.
         (e)   The notice required by this section may be in substantially the
following form:
 
   Date:                               
TO:                                 
                                 
                                 
The Village has determined that a certain vehicle registered in your name (or to which you are legally entitled) is abandoned within the meaning of the
Abandoned Vehicle Ordinance of the Village of Bowen. The vehicle was found and is now located at ______________ in the Village of Bowen. It is described
as follows:
Year of Manufacture:                                                      
Manufacturer’s Trade Name:                                              
Manufacturer’s Series Name:                                               
Body Style:                                                                      
Color:                                                                             
Vehicle Identification Number:                                               
License Plate Year and Number:                                        
This vehicle will be towed, impounded and disposed of by the Village of Bowen if the vehicle is not removed within five (5) days from the date of this
notice. You may be charged with violating such ordinance and will be charged with the costs incurred by the Village in enforcement of the ordinance,
including towing fees, attorney fees, court costs and Village employee time.
NOTE: Removal of the vehicle to another location (on the right-of-way or on private property) will not abate the nuisance unless the vehicle is kept in an
enclosed building or removed to another lawful storage area.
In the event that you disagree with the detennination that the vehicle is an abandoned vehicle, you are entitled to a ìearing on this determination. You
are required to file a written request for a heatjng within five (5) days of the date of this notice with the Village of Bowen which will promptly review
the matter with you and consider whatever pertinent infonnation you wish to present. The decision of the Mayor is final.
         VILLAGE OF BOWEN,
         By:                                                             
            Mayor
 
 
      (2)   When the identity of the owner or other person legally entitled to
an abandoned vehicle is not known and has not been determined in accordance
with the provisions hereof, and in addition to the notice required above when
the identity of the owner or other person legally entitled to a vehicle is
known, the village shall cause a prominent notice to be placed on the abandoned
vehicle stating that the vehicle has been determined to be abandoned in
accordance with the abandoned vehicle ordinance of the village and that it will
be towed and impounded unless removed within five days from the date the notice
was posted. The date the notice is posed shall be endorsed on the notice, the
person posting such notice and the telephone number of the village at which
information may be obtained relative to the notice. The village shall further
cause the owner or party in possession on private property on which the vehicle
is located to be informed that the vehicle will be towed and impounded after
five days. Such private property owner shall have all rights of review under
this chapter if such private property owner is a person legally entitled to
such vehicle. Notice to the owner or party in possession is informational only
and not jurisdictional.
   (C)   Review of determination. When a vehicle has been determined to be an
abandoned vehicle within the meaning of this chapter, the owner thereof or
other person legally entitled thereto shall have the right to have such
determination reviewed in accordance with this division (C).
      (1)   Request for hearing. Any owner of or other person legally entitled
to a vehicle determined to be an abandoned vehicle withing the meaning of this
chapter may, within five days of the notification required under §
92.04(B) of this chapter is mailed or personally delivered, as the case may be,
file a written request with the village that review such determination stating
the reason or reasons why such vehicle is not an abandoned vehicle within the
meaning of this chapter. Within seven days of such written request, the Mayor
shall review such determination giving the owner or other person an opportunity
to personally be heard and present whatever information as such owner or other
person considers pertinent. After reviewing such determination, the Mayor shall
render a written decision thereon which shall be promptly mailed, postage
prepaid, to such owner or other person, or delivered personally as stated
heretofore. The Mayor may designate a committee of a member or members of
Village Board of Trustees to assist with his or her duties under this section.
      (2)   Stay of towing and impounding. Pending any judicial review of a
determination that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle within the meaning of this
chapter, any such vehicle shall not be towed or impounded, except as is
permitted for emergency tows.
   (D)   Towing and impounding of vehicles. Subject to review of any
determination pursuant hereto that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle within the
meaning of this chapter, such abandoned vehicle may be towed and impounded
after a waiting period of five days or more from the date the notification
required pursuant to this section has been mailed or delivered, as the case may
be. The Mayor, or his or her designate, shall authorize a towing service to
remove and take possession of the abandoned vehicle. The towing service shall
safely keep the towed vehicle and its contents, maintain a record of the tow
until the vehicle is claimed by the owner or any other person legally entitled
to possession thereof, or until it is disposed of as provided in this chapter.
When any vehicle is authorized to be towed away, the village shall keep and
maintain a record of the vehicle towed, listing the color, year or manufacture,
manufacturer’s trade name, manufacturer’s series name, body style, vehicle
identification number and license plate year and number displayed on the
vehicle. The record shall also include the date and hour of the tow, the
location towed from, the location towed to, the reason for towing and the name
of the officer authorizing the tow.
   (E)   Reclaiming vehicles. At any time before a vehicle is sold at public
sale or disposed of as provided in this chapter, the owner or other person
legally entitled to its possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the
village proof of ownership or proof of the right of possession of the vehicle.
No vehicle shall be released to the owner thereof or other person entitled
thereto until and unless such owner or other person has paid all towing,
storage and processing charges assessed by this chapter on account of such
vehicle.
   (F)   Disposal of unclaimed vehicles. Abandoned vehicles which have been
towed and impounded shall be disposed of in accordance with this division (F).
      (1)   Disposal with notice. Whenever an abandoned vehicle, seven years of
age or newer; remains unclaimed by the registered owner or other person legally
entitled to its possession for a period of 30 days after notice has been given
by mail or delivered as provided herein, the village shall cause such vehicle
to be sold at public sale to the highest bidder. Notice of the time and place
of the sale shall be posted in a conspicuous place for at least ten days prior
to the sale on the premises where the vehicle has been impounded. At least ten
days prior to the sale, the village, or the towing service where the vehicle is
impounded, shall cause a notice of the time and place of the sale to be sent by
certified mail to the registered owner or other person known by the village or
the towing service to be legally entitled to the possession of such vehicle.
Such notice shall contain a complete description of the vehicle to be sold and
what steps must be taken by any legally entitled person to reclaim the vehicle.
Whenever an abandoned vehicle more than seven years of age is towed or
impounded, it may be sold as provided above or disposed of as junk only at the
discretion of the Mayor, or his or her designate.
      (2)   Disposal without notice. When the identity of the registered owner
or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned vehicle of
seven years of age or newer cannot be determined in accordance with this
section, the vehicle may be sold as provided in division (F)(1) above, but
without notice of the time and place of the sale being mailed to the registered
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle.
Whenever an abandoned vehicle more than seven years of age is towed and
impounded, it may be sold as provided above or disposed of as junk only at the
discretion of the Mayor, or his or her designate.
   (G)   Proceeds of sale. When a vehicle located within the village is
authorized to be towed, impounded and disposed of as set forth in this chapter,
the proceeds of the public sale or other disposition, after the deduction of
towing, storage and processing charges, shall be deposited in the village’s
treasury.
   (H)   Village reports. When a vehicle in the custody of the village is
reclaimed by the registered owner or other legally entitled persons, or when
the vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise disposed of as provided in this
chapter, a report of the transaction shall be maintained by the village for a
period of one year from the date of the sale or disposal.
(Ord. 322, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 92.06 COSTS.
   The registered owner, person or party in possession on private property or
other person legally entitled to an abandoned vehicle shall pay to the village
all towing, storage and processing costs. PROCESSING COSTS shall include
attorney fees, court costs, publication and notice fees and village employee
time. The village shall have a lien against the real estate from which the
property is towed if the owner of the real estate has an ownership interest in
the abandoned vehicle.
(Ord. 322, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 92.07 EMERGENCY TOWS.
   Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary, when a vehicle is
creating a traffic hazard because of its position in relation to a highway,
street or alley, its physical appearance is causing the impeding of traffic, or
it otherwise presents a danger to the public health and safety on public or
private property, the Mayor, or his or her designate, may authorize and direct
the immediate towing and impounding of such vehicle without notice to the owner
thereof or other person legally entitled thereto. Immediately thereafter, the
owner or other person legally entitled thereto shall be identified and notified
in accordance with this chapter. The determination may also be reviewed and the
vehicle disposed of in accordance with this chapter; provided that, if it is
concluded that such vehicle is not an abandoned vehicle within the meaning of
this chapter, such vehicle shall be released without charge to the owner
thereof or other person legally entitled thereto.
(Ord. 322, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 92.08 IMMUNITY.
   Any police officer, towing service owner, operator, officer or employee of
the village shall not be held to answer or be liable for damages in any action
brought by the registered owner, former registered owner, or his or her legal
representative, or any other person legally entitled to the possession of a
vehicle when the vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of as provided by
this chapter. All necessary parties shall have the full right and authority to
enter upon private property for the enforcement of this chapter when any
vehicle is in view of the general public.
(Ord. 322, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 92.09 PROVISIONS NON-EXCLUSIVE.
   The provisions hereof shall be considered in addition to any procedures
established, otherwise by law or ordinance for the removal and disposition of
abandoned vehicles.
(Ord. 322, passed 7-14-2014)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or entity in violation of this chapter shall be subject to a fine
of $25 per day.
(Ord. 322, passed 7-14-2014)
CHAPTER 93: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
93.01   Declaration of policy
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Prohibited acts
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   In furthering the policy of the state as expressed in its Constitution
and other laws; in order that the safety and general welfare, peace and health
of all the inhabitants of the village may be ensured, it is hereby declared the
policy of the village to assure equal opportunity to all residents, regardless
of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or physical
disability to live in decent, sanitary, healthful, standard living quarters.
   (B)   It is the policy of the village that no owner, lessee, sublessee,
assignee, managing agent or other person, firm or corporation having the right
to sell, rent, lease (or otherwise control) any housing accommodation and/or
real property within the village, or any agent of these shall refuse to sell,
rent, lease or otherwise deny to or withhold from any person or group of
persons such housing accommodations and/or real property because of race,
color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or disability of such
person or persons or discriminate against any person or persons because of
race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or disability in
the conditions, terms, privileges of the sale, rental or lease of any housing
accommodation and/or real property or in the furnishing of facilities and/or
services in connection therewith.
   (C)   Relocation shall be carried out in a manner that will promote maximum
choice within the community’s total housing supply, lessen racial, ethnic and
economic concentrations, and facilitate desegregation and racially inclusive
patterns of occupancy and use of public and private facilities.
(Ord. 392, passed 10-7-2015)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DECENT, SANITARY, HEALTHFUL STANDARD LIVING QUARTERS. Housing which is in
sound, clean and weather-tight condition in conformance with applicable local,
state and national codes.
   DISCRIMINATE or DISCRIMINATION. Any difference expressed in any way toward a
person or persons in the terms of the sale, exchange, lease, rental or
financing for housing accommodation and/or real property in regard to such
sale, exchange, rental, lease or finance because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or disability of such person.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Any person, institution or business entity of any
kind which loans money to persons and receives as security for said loans a
secured interest of any kind in the real property of the borrower.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION. Any building, structure or portion thereof which is
used or occupied, maintained, arranged or designed to be used or occupied as a
home, residence or sleeping place of one or more human beings, or any real
estate so used, designed or intended for such use.
   OWNER. Any person/persons who hold legal or equitable title to, or own any
beneficial interest in any real property or who hold legal or who hold legal or
equitable title to shares of, or hold any beneficial interest in any real
estate cooperative which owns any real property and/or housing accommodations.
   REAL PROPERTY. Any real estate, vacant land, building, structure or housing
accommodations within the corporate limits of the village.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER. Any person, partnership, association, corporation and or
agent thereof, who for a fee or other valuable consideration offers, sells,
purchases, exchanges or rents or negotiates for the sale, purchase, exchange or
rental of a housing accommodation and/or real property of another, or collects
rental for the use of housing accommodation and/or real property of another.
(Ord. 392, passed 10-7-2015)
§ 93.03 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sublessee,
real estate broker or salesperson, financial institution or employee of the
financial institution, advertiser, or agent of any or all of the foregoing, to
discriminate against any person or persons because of his, her or their race,
color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or disability with
regard to the sale, exchange or rental or any dealing concerning any housing
accommodation and/or real property.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing, it shall also be unlawful for any real
estate broker or employee thereof, owner or other person, or financial
institution dealing with housing or real property in the village:
      (1)   To discriminate against any person in the availability of or the
price, terms, conditions or privileges of any kind relating to the sale,
rental, lease or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in the
village or in furnishing of any facilities or services in connection therewith;
      (2)   To publish or circulate, or cause to be published or circulated,
any notice, statement or advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to use any
form of application, for the purchase, lease, rental or financing of real
property, or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective
purchase, rental or lease of such real estate, which expresses directly or
indirectly any discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed or disability of any person;
      (3)   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing
loans, accepting mortgages or otherwise obtaining or making available funds for
the purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance
of any housing accommodation and/or real property;
      (4)   To solicit for sale, lease or listing for the sale or lease, of any
housing accommodation and/or real property on the grounds of loss of value
because of the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed or disability;
      (5)   To distribute or cause to be distributed, written material or
statements designed to induce any owner or any housing accommodation and/or
real property to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or
prospective change in the race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed or disability of persons in the neighborhood;
      (6)   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale or
the anticipated listing for sale or the sale of any housing accommodation and/
or real property for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale
or listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any
particular race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or
disability in the area will or may result in the lowering of property values in
the block, neighborhood or area in which the property is located;
      (7)   For an owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent or
otherwise deal with such owner’s housing accommodations and/or real property
with any limitation on its sale based on race, color, religion, national origin
or ancestry, sex, creed or disability; and/or
      (8)   For an owner to refuse to sell, rent or otherwise deal with any
housing accommodation and/or real property because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or disability of the proposed buyer or
tenant.
(Ord. 392, passed 10-7-2015) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100, nor more than $1,500. Each
day a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation. This section
shall in no way abrogate or impair the right of the village to specifically
enforce, by any legal means, any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 392, passed 10-7-2015)
TITLE IX: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   CANNABIS BUSINESSES
      
112.   VIDEO GAMING
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Licensing; classes, terms and application
   
110.03   Hours of operation and sales
   
110.04   License revocation for non-compliance
   
110.05   Appeals; compliance with state law
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether
rectified or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof and includes synthetic
ethyl alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.
      (1)   Includes four varieties of liquor - alcohol, spirits, wine and beer
- and every liquid or solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine
or beer and capable of being consumed as a beverage by a human being.
      (2)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to alcohol used in
the manufacture of denatured alcohol produced in accordance with Acts of
Congress and regulations promulgated thereunder, nor to any liquid or solid
containing 0.5% or less of alcohol by volume; nor shall the provisions of this
chapter apply to flavoring extracts, syrups or medicinal, mechanical,
scientific, culinary or toilet preparations or food products unfit for beverage
purposes, but the provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to exclude
or not apply to alcoholic liquor used in the manufacture, preparation or
compounding of such products.
      (3)   None of the provisions of this chapter shall apply to wine intended
for use and used by any church or religious organization for sacramental
purposes.
   BEER. A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt and hops in water and includes, among
other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any bottle, flask, jog, can cask, barrel or other
receptacle or container, whatsoever used, corked or capped, sealed and labeled
by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey any alcoholic
liquor.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation or other association or individuals.
   SALE. Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner or by any means
whatsoever for a consideration and includes and means all sales made by any
person, whether principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employee.
   SELL AT RETAIL and SALE AT RETAIL. Sales for use or consumption and not for
resale in any form.
   SELL and TO SELL. Includes to keep or expose for sale and to keep with
intent to sell.
   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution and includes brandy, rum, whisky, gin
or other spirituous liquors and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substance.
   WINE. Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of alcohol or spirits, as above defined.
(Ord. 287, passed 9-16-1998)
§ 110.02 LICENSING; CLASSES, TERMS AND APPLICATION.
   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail any alcoholic
liquor or engage in or conduct any place for the sale at retail of alcoholic
liquors within the corporate limits of the village without first securing a
local retail liquor dealer’s license issued by the local Liquor Commissioner as
hereinafter provided.
   (A)   Classes of licenses. There shall be four classes of licenses, as
follows.
      (1)   Class A liquor license (package sales license). This license
authorizes and entitles the person to whom it is issued to sell and offer for
sale alcoholic liquors in original package only for consumption off the
licensed premises.
      (2)   Class B liquor license (for consumption on premises). This license
authorizes and entitles the person to whom it is issued to sell at retail all
types of alcoholic liquors for consumption on the licensed premises, such as a
restaurant.
      (3)   Class C liquor license (special event retailer’s license). This
license authorizes and entitles a not-for-profit entity to purchase alcoholic
liquors from an Illinois licensed distributor and allows the entity to sell and
offer for sale, at retail, alcoholic liquor for use or consumption, but not for
resale in any form, and only at the location and on the specific dates
designated in the license for the special event. This license will apply to
fraternal, educational, political, civic, religious and not-for-profit
organizations that assume the responsibility for selling and serving alcoholic
beverages at special events. The licensee shall provide dram shop insurance in
the maximum limits and shall obtain the required state license. The special
event license may not exceed 15 days in any 12-month period.
      (4)   Class D liquor license (special use permit license). This license
authorizes and entitles a Class B license holder to sell or serve alcoholic
beverages for consumption at special events off the licensed premises as part
of a festival, fair, picnic or other special event. This license shall allow a
Class B license holder to transfer a portion of its alcoholic liquor inventory
from its licensed premises to the premises specified in the special use permit
license and to sell or offer for sale, at retail only and at the specified off-
site location, the transferred alcoholic liquor for use or consumption, but not
for resale. The licensee shall provide dram shop insurance in the maximum
limits and shall obtain the required state license. The special use permit
license may be granted for a duration of one to 15 days, with a maximum of 15
days per location in any 12-month period.
   (B)   Term, issuance. All licenses issued under and by virtue of this
chapter shall be annual licenses. The license year under this chapter shall
commence on October 1 of each year and shall expire on September 30 of each
year then next succeeding. All licenses issued hereunder shall expire on
September 30 following their issuance, unless sooner revoked according to law.
Every license issued hereunder shall state thereon the class to which it
belongs, the name of the licensee and his or her address, the description of
the premises for which it is granted; provided, however, that, only one
location shall be described in each license, the date of its issuance, the date
of expiration thereof and shall be signed on behalf of the village by the local
Liquor Commissioner. Each renewal license shall be in all respects identical
with the original or first license.
   (C)   Premises, requirements. Licenses issued hereunder shall apply only to
the premises described in the application and in the license issued thereon and
only one location shall be so described in each license. After a license has
been granted hereunder for particular premises, the local Liquor Commissioner,
upon proper showing, may endorse upon such license permission to abandon the
premises therein described and remove therefrom to other premises approved by
him or her, but in order to obtain such approval the licensee shall file with
the local Liquor Commissioner a request in writing and a statement under oath,
which shall show that the premises to which removal is to be made comply in all
respects with the requirements of this chapter and state law.
   (D)   Application, form.
      (1)   An applicant for a license or renewal thereof from the village
shall submit to the local Liquor Commissioner an application, in writing, under
oath stating:
         (a)   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of copartnership, the persons entitled to share in the
profits thereof, and in the case of a corporation for profit or a club, the
date of incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the names and
addresses of the officers and directors and if a majority in interest of the
stock of such corporation is owned by one person or his or her nominees, the
name and address of such person;
         (b)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth and,
if a naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
         (c)   The location and legal description of the premises or place of
business which is to be operated under such license;
         (d)   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony
and is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter;
         (e)   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof
or by the federal government has been revoked and the reasons thereof;
         (f)   That he or she will not violate any of the laws of the state or
of the United States in the conduct of his or her place of business; and
         (g)   Whether the application is for an original or renewal license.
      (2)   If said application is made on behalf of a partnership, firm or
association club or corporation, then the same shall be signed and sworn to by
at least two members of such partnership, firm or association or club or the
president and secretary.
   (E)   Fees.
      (1)   License fees. The annual fee for each class of license, payable in
advance, shall be as follows:
         (a)   Class A license (package sales): $300;
         (b)   Class B license (consumption on premises): $300;
         (c)   Class C license (special event license): $10; and
         (d)   Class D license (special use permit license): $25.
      (2)   Reduced charges. The license fee shall be reduced in proportion to
the full calendar months which shall have expired in the license year prior to
the issuance of the license.
   (F)   Renewal. Liquor license renewal is not a vested right and is not
automatic. A licensee may apply annually to renew his or her license. At the
time of application for license renewal, the licensee must be qualified to hold
a license, and the premises for which the license is sought must comply with
the provisions of this section, as amended from time to time. Application for
renewal shall be made to the local Liquor Commissioner (the Village Mayor) on
or before September 1 of each year.
   (G)   State license. No license shall be issued to any person, ineligible to
obtain and receive a state retailer’s license.
   (H)   Posting license, duplicate. The license issued to any applicant in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall be posted by the licensee
and kept posted while in force in a conspicuous place on the premises described
in such license. Whenever such license shall be lost or destroyed, a duplicate
thereof shall be issued by the local Liquor Commissioner.
   (I)   Record of licenses. The local Liquor Commissioner shall keep or cause
to be kept a complete record of all licenses issued by him or her and shall
furnish the Village Clerk and Village Treasurer each with a copy thereof; upon
the issuance of a new license or the revocation of any license, the local
Liquor Commissioner shall as soon as possible notify these officers of such
action.
   (J)   Non-transferability.
      (1)   (a)   A license issued under this chapter shall be purely a
personal privilege, good for not to exceed one year after issuance unless
sooner revoked as provided by law and shall not constitute properly, nor shall
it be alienable or transferable voluntarily or involuntarily or subject to
being encumbered or hypothecated.
         (b)   Such license shall not descend by the laws of testate or
intestate devolution, but it shall cease upon the death of the licensee;
provided that, executors or administrators of the estate of any deceased
licensee and the trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such
estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor may continue the business of the
sale of alcoholic liquor under order of the appropriate court and may exercise
the privileges of the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the
death of such decedent or such insolvency or bankruptcy until the expiration of
such license, but no longer than six months after the death, bankruptcy or
insolvency of such licensee.
      (2)   A refund shall be made of that portion of the license fee paid for
any period in which the licensee shall be prevented from operating under such
license in accordance with the provisions of this division (J).
   (K)   Required training.
      (1)   All persons who sell or serve alcoholic beverages, all management
personnel working on the premises, and anyone whose job includes the checking
of identification for the purchase of alcoholic beverages must complete a
state-certified Beverage Alcohol Sellers and Servers Education and Training
(BASSET) program.
      (2)   A copy of the certificates of completion for all owners, managers,
employees or agents requiring BASSET training shall be maintained by the
establishment and shall be made available for inspection, upon demand, by a
representative of the village or state liquor control authorities.
   (L)   Age to sell/serve alcoholic beverages. A person aged 18 and over who
is employed by a licensee and who has completed the required BASSET training
may possess alcoholic beverages for the purpose of selling and serving them to
customers of the licensee who are of legal age (21 and over) and who are not
already intoxicated.
(Ord. 287, passed 9-16-1998; Ord. 376, passed 1-8-2014; Ord. 439, passed 2-9-
2022) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 HOURS OF OPERATION AND SALES.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, his, her or its agents or employees,
to sell, offer for sale, to give away and to serve or dispense any alcoholic
liquors in or on the premises specified in such licensee’s license between the
following hours: 1:01 a.m. Sunday to 12:00 noon Sunday; and 1:01 a.m. to 8:00
a.m. Monday through Saturday.
(Ord. 287, passed 9-16-1998; Ord. 417, passed - -2019) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 LICENSE REVOCATION FOR NON-COMPLIANCE.
   No licensee hereunder shall permit the violation of any county, village or
state law or ordinance upon premises occupied by him or her in the conduct of
his or her business under such license, and the violation of this section, in
addition to other penalties hereunder, may be deemed, at the option of the
local Liquor Commission, sufficient cause for revocation of the license granted
to such licensee.
(Ord. 287, passed 9-16-1998)
§ 110.05 APPEALS; COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   The local Liquor Commissioner, being the Mayor of the village, along with
the Village Board of Trustees as appointed, shall adhere to all provisions
provided for in 235 ILCS 5/7-5, the Liquor Control Act.
(Ord. 287, passed 9-16-1998)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, any person violating any of the provisions
of this chapter, as amended from time to time, shall be punished by a fine of
not less than $100, nor more than the maximum penalty allowed by 65 ILCS 5/1-2-
1 (currently $750). Each day that a violation exists shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (B)   Each person or entity violating §
110.04 of this chapter shall be fined $100 for the first offense. For each
subsequent violation in a license year, the fine shall be not less than $200,
nor more than the maximum penalty allowed by 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1 (currently $750).
Each day that a violation exists shall constitute a separate offenses.
(Ord. 287, passed 9-16-1998; Ord. 376, passed 1-8-2014)
CHAPTER 111: CANNABIS BUSINESSES
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Prohibited business establishments
   
111.03   Public nuisance declared
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. A cultivation center, craft
grower, processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing organization
or transporting organization.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER. A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the state’s Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act
(Public Act 101-0027), being 410 ILCS 705, as it may be amended from time to
time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the state’s Department of
Agriculture to cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities
to provide cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (Public Act 101-0027),
being 410 ILCS 705, as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION. A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the state’s Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (Public Act 101-0027),
being 410 ILCS 705, as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER. A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the state’s Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act (Public Act 101-0027), being 410 ILCS 705, as it may be
amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR. A facility operated
by an organization or business that is licensed by the state’s Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act (Public Act 101-0027), being 410 ILCS 705, as it may be amended
from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER. An organization
or business that is licensed by the state’s Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (Public Act
101-0027), being 410 ILCS 705, as it may be amended from time to time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, corporation, association, club, society or other
organization, including any owner, manager, proprietor, employee, volunteer or
agent.
(Ord. 423, passed 1-8-2020)
§ 111.02 PROHIBITED BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   The following adult-use cannabis business establishments are
prohibited in the village.
   (B)   No person shall locate, operate, own, suffer, allow to be operated or
aide, abet or assist in the operation within the village of any of the
following:
      (1)   Adult-use cannabis craft grower;
      (2)   Adult-use cannabis cultivation center;
      (3)   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization;
      (4)   Adult-use cannabis infuser organization or infuser;
      (5)   Adult-use cannabis processing organization or processor; or
      (6)   Adult-use cannabis transporting organization or transporter.
(Ord. 423, passed 1-8-2020) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Operation of any prohibited cannabis business establishment within the
village in violation of the provisions of this chapter is hereby declared a
public nuisance and shall be abated pursuant to all available remedies.
(Ord. 423, passed 1-8-2020) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations of this chapter may be enforced in accordance with the
provisions of the municipal code as to other nuisances, and the violator shall
be fined. Each day that a violation exists or continues shall constitute a
separate violation.
   (B)   The minimum fine, per offense, shall be $50, and the maximum fine, per
offense, shall be $750 or the maximum allowed under § 1-2-1 of the Illinois
Municipal Code, being 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, whichever is greater. The fine or
penalty may be collected by any means allowed by law.
(Ord. 423, passed 1-8-2020)
CHAPTER 112: VIDEO GAMING
Section
   
112.01   Applicability
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Required license
   
112.04   License application requirements
   
112.05   Application filing; license term; renewals
   
112.06   License fees; display of license
   
112.07   License revocation or suspension
   
112.08   Limitation on number of licenses
   
112.09   Limitation on number of video gaming terminals on premises
   
112.10   Prohibition
   
112.11   Exceptions
   
112.12   Licensed establishments
   
112.13   Seizure of unauthorized gambling devices and gambling funds
   
112.14   Miscellaneous regulations; restrictions
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter, except as otherwise provided, shall apply to
all video gaming as hereinafter defined, whether or not specifically licensed
or regulated under other provisions of this code or other ordinances.
(Ord. 453, passed 11-8-2023)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Illinois Gaming Board.
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES. As defined in § 18b-l 01 of the Illinois Vehicle
Code, 625 ILCS 5/18b-101.
   LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT. Any business licensed by the State of Illinois to
have or operate a video gaming device in the village, including any licensed
fraternal establishment, licensed veterans establishment, licensed truck stop
establishment and licensed large truck stop establishment as those terms are
defined in the Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/5.
   LICENSED FRATERNAL ESTABLISHMENT. The location where a qualified fraternal
organization that derives its charter from a national fraternal organization
regularly meets.
   LICENSED VETERANS ESTABLISHMENT. The location where a qualified veterans
organization that derives its charter from a national veterans organization
regularly meets.
   LICENSED LARGE TRUCK STOP ESTABLISHMENT.
      (1)   A facility located within three road miles from a freeway
interchange, as measured in accordance with the Department of Transportation’s
rules regarding the criteria for the installation of business signs which:
         (a)   Is at least a three-acre facility with a convenience store;
         (b)   Has separate diesel islands for fueling commercial motor
vehicles;
         (c)   Sells at retail more than 50,000 gallons of diesel or bio diesel
fuel per month; and
         (d)   Has parking spaces for commercial motor vehicles.
      (2)   The requirement of division (1)(c) of this definition may be met by
showing that estimated future sales or past sales average at least 50,000
gallons per month.
   LICENSED TRUCK STOP ESTABLISHMENT.
      (1)   A facility which:
         (a)   Is at least a three-acre facility with a convenience store;
         (b)   Has separate diesel islands for fueling commercial motor
vehicles;
         (c)   Sells at retail more than 10,000 gallons of diesel or bio diesel
fuel per month; and
         (d)   Has parking spaces for commercial motor vehicles.
      (2)   The requirement of division (1)(c) of this definition may be met by
showing that estimated future sales or past sales average at least 10,000
gallons per month.
   VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL. Any electronic video game machine that, upon
insertion of cash, is available to play or simulate the play of a video game,
including but not limited to, video poker, line up and blackjack, as authorized
by the Village Board of Trustees utilizing a video display and microprocessors
in which the player may receive free games or credits that can be redeemed for
cash. The term does not include a machine that directly dispenses coins, cash
or tokens or is for amusement purposes only.
(Ord. 453, passed 11-8-2023)
§ 112.03 REQUIRED LICENSE.
   (A)   No person, either as owner, lessee, manager, officer or agent, or in
any other capacity, shall operate or permit to be operated any video gaming
terminal, as defined herein, at any premises within the village without first
having obtained a video gaming license from the village. The license provided
for in this section shall permit a licensee to operate video gaming terminals
at the specified establishment.
   (B)   No applicant, including any person, either as owner, lessee, manager,
officer or agent, shall be eligible for a video gaming license from the
village, nor shall an existing license holder be entitled to maintain a video
gaming license, unless each of the following requirements are met and continue
to be met:
      (1)   The applicant holds the appropriate certificate or license from the
state permitting video gaming and is in good standing with same;
      (2)   The establishment has been in operation at the location for at
least three months at the time the application is filed;
      (3)   The establishment must maintain customer seating outside of the
gaming area, but within the premises at a ratio of at least five seats for each
permitted video gaming terminal;
      (4)   The applicant is not in arrears in any tax, fee or bill due to the
village or the state;
      (5)   The applicant has completed, and complies with, all the application
requirements set forth in §
112.04 of this chapter and is not disqualified due to a felony, gambling
offense or crime of moral turpitude; and
      (6)   If the village subsequently adopts zoning regulations, the
establishment must be located outside of a residential zoning district.
   (C)   Except for large truck stop establishments, to be eligible to have
video gaming at an establishment, the net terminal income generated at the
establishment from video gaming cannot exceed 40% of the total gross revenues
generated.
   (D)   Large truck stop and regular truck stop establishments do not need to
meet the requirements set forth in division (C) above.
   (E)   A new establishment must meet the requirements of division (B)(2)
above unless the applicant is also a current majority owner of an existing
business at another location that has been in operation for at least 3 months,
and the business model for the new establishment is proposed to replicate the
existing business location and the applicant can provide satisfactory evidence
detailing that in the last 12-month period video gaming net terminal income at
the other business location did not exceed 40% of the gross revenues.
   (F)   The Village Mayor shall be the approving authority for all licenses.
In the event a licensee or prospective licensee disagrees with any action taken
by the Village Mayor, an appeal may be made directly to the Village Board of
Trustees at its next regularly scheduled meeting after written notice of the
action from which an appeal is made.
(Ord. 453, passed 11-8-2023) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 LICENSE APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The license applicant shall provide the following information to the village
on a form provided by the village:
   (A)   The legal name of the establishment;
   (B)   The business name of the establishment;
   (C)   The address of the establishment where the video gaming terminals are
to be located;
   (D)   The type of establishment, including whether it is classified as a
veteran, fraternal, regular truck stop, large truck stop or liquor
establishment, and supporting documentation demonstrating the classification;
   (E)   A floor plan, drawn to scale, detailing the overall layout of the
establishment, including the location and count of dining seating, the location
and count of video gaming terminals and seating for said terminals, and other
significant features of the establishment, including exit locations, restrooms
and other equipment (and the floor plan shall be on paper that is at least
eight and one-half inches by 11 inches and shall be submitted at the time of
application);
   (F)   The amount of time the establishment has been in business under the
ownership of the applicant at the location where video gaming is proposed to
take place; and
   (G)   The business office address of the establishment if different from the
address of the establishment;
   (H)   In the case of a corporation, limited liability company or trust, the
name and address of an agent authorized and designated to accept service on
behalf of the licensee;
   (I)   A phone number for the establishment;
   (J)   An e-mail address for the establishment;
   (K)   The name and address of every person owning more than a 5% share of
the establishment;
   (L)   The name, address, phone number and e-mail address of any terminal
operator or distributor proposed to own, service or maintain video gaming
terminals at the establishment;
   (M)   A copy of the establishment’s state video gaming license;
   (N)   In the case of a corporation, limited liability company or
partnership, a copy of the establishment’s state certificate of good standing;
   (O)   A statement as to the number of video gaming terminals which the
establishment proposes to have on its premises (not to exceed five for all
establishments);
   (P)   A statement that the establishment is not in arrears in any tax, fee,
or bill due to the Village or to the State of Illinois;
   (Q)   A statement that the establishment agrees to abide by all state and
federal laws and all local ordinances;
   (R)   (1)   A statement that no manager or owner with more than a 5%
interest in the establishment has ever been convicted of a felony, a gambling
offense or a crime of moral turpitude. In the event that an establishment
cannot provide such statement, the establishment may apply for a certificate of
rehabilitation from the Village Mayor, indicating that the individual who would
disqualify the establishment from obtaining the video gaming license has been
rehabilitated and is no longer a threat to violate the law.
      (2)   The Village Mayor may consider the nature of the offense, the
length of time since the offense, the length of time since release from custody
and other factors to determine if the individual has been rehabilitated such
that he or she is no longer likely to commit another offense;
   (S)   If the application is for a new establishment based on the business
model of another existing location, information regarding the existing business
location must be provided, including the type of business, the gross receipts
as compared to any video gaming revenue for the prior 12-month period, proof of
the length of time the existing business has been operational and proof of
ownership verifying the applicant’s ownership rights;
   (T)   For renewal applications, a report or reports showing its gross annual
revenue for the previous calendar year by category of revenue generated and
showing the percentage of gaming revenue payable to the establishment as
compared to the total gross revenues of the establishment.
(Ord. 453, passed 11-8-2023)
§ 112.05 APPLICATION FILING; LICENSE TERM; RENEWALS.
   (A)   Applications shall be processed by the Village Clerk or Village
Treasurer on a first come, first served basis. Every application shall be date
stamped upon filing. An application received in the mail shall be considered
filed on the date and time it is opened.
   (B)   The license term begins on October 1, and it ends on September 30 of
the following year, even if its is issued after October 1.
   (C)   Every video gaming license holder shall be required to file a renewal
application, which may contain the same or similar information as set forth in
§
112.04. Renewal applications shall be due on or before August 1 unless that day
falls on a holiday, in which case the application may be received by the
Village Clerk on the following business day.
(Ord. 453, passed 11-8-2023)
§ 112.06 LICENSE FEES; DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The fee for operation of a video gaming terminal shall be $50 per
terminal annually, with a maximum fee, per business license, of $200. The cost
of this fee shall be shared equally between the terminal operator and the
applicable licensed establishment. Said fee is not subject to proration or
refund, and they are due prior to issuance of the license.
   (B)   The application fee is not subject to reimbursement or refund upon
denial of a license.
   (C)   All licenses required by this division shall be prominently displayed
next to the video gaming terminal.
(Ord. 453, passed 11-8-2023)
§ 112.07 LICENSE REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Mayor, at any time, may notify any licensee within
five business days of any charge of a violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter in connection with the operation of any video gaming terminal.
      (2)   After a hearing presided over by the Village Mayor, the Village
Mayor may order the revocation of the license upon a finding that the violation
has occurred, and the license shall thereupon be terminated. The licensee may
appeal the revocation as prescribed in §
112.03(F).
   (B)   In the event of the revocation or denial of any license or
registration under this section, such person shall not be issued any license
provided for in this chapter for one calendar year following the revocation or
any appeal thereof.
(Ord. 453, passed 11-8-2023)
§ 112.08 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   There shall be no more than three establishments licensed to operate video
gaming terminals in the village at any given time.
(Ord. 453, passed 11-8-2023) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.09 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF VIDEO GAMING TERMINALS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   There shall be no more than five video gaming terminals allowed and
permits issued therefore under this chapter for each licensee at any one
location, other than a licensed large truck stop establishment.
   (B)   There shall be no more than 10 video gaming terminals allowed and
permits issued therefore under this chapter for each licensee at any licensed
large truck stop establishment.
(Ord. 453, passed 11-8-2023) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.10 PROHIBITION.
   Except as otherwise excepted in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for any
person to gamble within the corporate limits of the chapter, or for any person
or entity which owns, occupies or controls an establishment within the chapter
to knowingly permit others to gamble on the premises.
(Ord. 453, passed 11-8-2023) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.11 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prohibit or make unlawful the
following activities or forms of gambling: the keeping, possession, ownership,
use or playing of a video gaming terminal in a licensed establishment, licensed
truck stop establishment, licensed fraternal establishment or licensed veterans
establishment, which is licensed by the Village Board of Trustees to conduct or
allow such specific activities under the Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et
seq.
(Ord. 453, passed 11-8-2023)
§ 112.12 LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Any business, liquor or food licensee within the corporate limits of
the village that allows gambling to occur on premises in violation of this
section shall be subject to having his, her or its license immediately revoked
for a period of 60 days.
   (B)   Any business, liquor or food licensee within the corporate limits of
the village that allows gambling to occur on premises in violation of this
chapter a second time shall have his, her or its license permanently revoked
and, thereafter, barred from obtaining any business, liquor or food license
within the village.
(Ord. 453, passed 11-8-2023) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.13 SEIZURE OF UNAUTHORIZED GAMBLING DEVICES AND GAMBLING FUNDS.
   Any gambling device which is not authorized by this chapter shall be subject
to immediate seizure and confiscation by the village. Any money or other thing
of value intrinsically related to acts of gambling not authorized by this
chapter shall be seized and forfeited as contraband. Disposition of such
gambling devices and funds seized or confiscated shall be made in accordance
with the law.
(Ord. 453, passed 11-8-2023) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.14 MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The video gaming terminals must be located in an area restricted to
persons who are age 21 or over, and the entrance to that area must be within
the view of at least one employee of the establishment who is age 21 or over.
   (B)   No licensee shall cause or permit any person under the age of 21 to
use or play a video gaming terminal. Any licensee who permits a person under
age 21 to use or play a video gaming terminal is guilty of an offense and shall
be fined an amount not to exceed $5,000.
   (C)   No video gaming terminal licensed under this chapter may be played
outside the hours of operation allowed for consumption of alcoholic beverages
at the establishment.
(Ord. 453, passed 11-8-2023) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to the license revocation and seizure provisions stated in this
chapter, any person or establishment that violates the provisions of this
chapter shall be punished by a fine of not less than $250 and not more than
$750 (or the maximum penalty imposed under the State Video Gaming Act,
whichever is greater), per offense.
(Ord. 453, passed 11-8-2023)
CHAPTER 113
Publisher's Note: This Chapter has been ADDED by new legislation (Ord. 468,
adopted 6-19-2025). The text of the amendment will be incorporated when the
ordinance is codified.
 
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
[Reserved]
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
      
151.   CAMPERS AND OTHER RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 150: SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Purpose and scope
   
150.02   Conflicts
   
150.03   Definitions
   
150.04   Permitted uses
   
150.05   Permit required
   
150.06   Application fees
   
150.07   Applicability
   
150.08   Pre-existing agreements
   
150.09   Annual recurring rate
   
150.10   Abandonment
   
150.11   Dispute resolution
   
150.12   Indemnification
   
150.13   Insurance
Collocation Requirements and Conditions
   
150.25   Public safety space reservation
   
150.26   Installation and maintenance
   
150.27   No interference with public safety communication frequency
   
150.28   No collocation on utility poles
   
150.29   Compliance
   
150.30   Alternate placements
   
150.31   Height limitations; exceptions
   
150.32   Contractual design requirements
   
150.33   Ground-mounted equipment spacing
   
150.34   Undergrounding regulations
   
150.35   Collocation completion deadline
Cross-reference:
   Health and Sanitation; Nuisances, see
Chapter 91
   Public works and utilities, see Title V
Statutory reference:
   Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act (50 ILCS 840), see Public Act 100-
0585
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations, standards and
procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless facilities on
rights-of-way within the village’s jurisdiction or outside the rights-of-way on
property zoned (or to be zoned) by the village exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act (“the Act”).
(Ord. 408, passed 6-13-2018)
§ 150.02 CONFLICTS.
   (A)   Conflicts with other ordinances. This chapter supersedes all
ordinances or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict
herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
   (B)   Conflicts with state and federal laws. In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws
or regulations.
   (C)   If the state subsequently amends or repeals the Act, or a portion
thereof, this chapter shall be amended or repealed in a like manner; the
amendment or repeal shall take effect on the same date as the state’s amendment
or repeal.
(Ord. 408, passed 6-13-2018)
§ 150.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
   APPLICABLE CODES. Uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing or mechanical
codes adopted by a recognized national code organization or local amendments to
those codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
   APPLICANT. Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
   APPLICATION. A request submitted by an applicant to the village for a permit
to collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
   COLLOCATE or COLLOCATION. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. Cable service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6), as
amended; information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53), as amended;
mobile service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53), as amended; or wireless
service other than mobile service.
   COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER. A cable operator, as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
522(5), as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C.
§ 153(24), as amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
153(51), as amended; or a wireless provider.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
   FEE. A one-time charge.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT or HISTORIC LANDMARK. A building, property or site, or
group of buildings, properties or sites that are either:
      (1)   Listed in the National Register of Historic Places or formally
determined eligible for listing by the keeper of the National Register, the
individual who has been delegated the authority by the federal agency to list
properties and determine their eligibility for the National Register, in
accordance with §§ VI.D.1.a.i through VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic
Agreement, codified at 47 C.F.R. part 1, appendix C; or
      (2)   Designated as a locally landmarked building, property, site or
historic district by an ordinance adopted by the village pursuant to a
preservation program that meets the requirements of the Certified Local
Government Program of the state’s Historic Preservation Office or where such
certification of the preservation program by the state’s Historic Preservation
Office is pending.
   LAW. A federal or state statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order
or local ordinance or resolution.
   MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width and 12 inches in height
and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE. A utility pole owned or operated by the village in
public rights-of-way.
   PERMIT. A written authorization required by the village to perform an action
or initiate, continue or complete a project.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust or other entity or organization.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY. The functional division of the federal government, the
state, a unit of local government or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within the state, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical or other emergency services to respond
to and manage emergency incidents.
   RATE. A recurring charge.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below or above a public roadway, highway, street,
public sidewalk, alley or utility easement dedicated for compatible use. RIGHT-
OF-WAY does not include village-owned aerial lines.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an imaginary
enclosure of no more than six cubic feet; and
      (2)   All other wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole
associated with the facility is cumulatively no more than 25 cubic feet in
volume. The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included
in the calculation of equipment volume: electric meter; concealment elements;
telecommunications demarcation box; ground-based enclosures; grounding
equipment; power transfer switch; cut-off switch; and vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services.
   UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part
by a communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting,
traffic control or a similar function.
   WIRELESS FACILITY.
      (1)   Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless communications
between user equipment and a communications network, including:
         (a)   Equipment associated with wireless communications; and
         (b)   Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable,
regular and backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of
technological configuration.
      (2)   WIRELESS FACILITY includes small wireless facilities. WIRELESS
FACILITY does not include:
         (a)   The structure or improvements on, under or within which the
equipment is collocated; or
         (b)   Wire line backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber optic cable that
is between wireless support structures or utility poles or coaxial, or fiber
optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or directly
associated with an antenna.
   WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the state that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider, but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the village.
   WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
   WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a non-discriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
   WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person who provides wireless services.
   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE.
      (1)   A freestanding structure, such as a monopole; tower, either guyed
or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or proposed structure designed
to support or capable of supporting wireless facilities.
      (2)   WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
(Ord. 408, passed 6-13-2018)
§ 150.04 PERMITTED USES.
   Small wireless facilities shall be classified as permitted uses and subject
to administrative review, except as provided in §
150.31(B) of this chapter regarding height exceptions or variances, but not
subject to zoning review or approval if they are collocated:
   (A)   In rights-of-way in any zoning district; or
   (B)   Outside rights-of-way in property zoned exclusively for commercial or
industrial use.
(Ord. 408, passed 6-13-2018)
§ 150.05 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from the village to
collocate a small wireless facility.
   (B)   An application shall be received and processed, and permits issued
shall be subject to the following conditions and requirements.
      (1)   Application requirements.
         (a)   A wireless provider shall provide the following information to
the village, together with the village’s small cell facilities permit
application, as a condition of any permit application to collocate small
wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support structure:
            1.   Site specific structural integrity and, for a municipal
utility pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that
term is defined in § 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989,
being 225 ILCS 340/4(f);
            2.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
            3.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer,
as that term is defined in § 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
            4.   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
            5.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of
each small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
            6.   Certification that the collocation complies with the
collocation requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the
applicant’s knowledge.
         (b)   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the village, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      (2)   Application process. The village shall process applications as
follows.
         (a)   The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
         (b)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or replacement of an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
non-discriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the village fails to
approve or deny the application within 90 days after the submission of a
completed application. However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the
permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the
village in writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no
sooner than 75 days after the submission of a completed application. The permit
shall be deemed approved on the latter of the ninetieth day after submission of
the complete application or the tenth day after the receipt of the deemed
approved notice by the village. The receipt of the deemed approved notice shall
not preclude the village’s denial of the permit request within the time limits
as provided under this chapter.
         (c)   An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a non-
discriminatory basis and deemed approved if the village fails to approve or
deny the application within 120 days after the submission of a completed
application. However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the village in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than
105 days after the submission of a completed application. The permit shall be
deemed approved on the latter of the one-hundred-twentieth day after submission
of the complete application or the tenth day after the receipt of the deemed
approved notice by the village. The receipt of the deemed approved notice shall
not preclude the village’s denial of the permit request within the time limits
as provided under this chapter.
         (d)   The village shall deny an application which does not meet the
requirements of this chapter. If the village determines that applicable codes,
ordinances or regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein require that the utility pole or
wireless support structure be replaced before the requested collocation,
approval shall be conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or
wireless support structure at the cost of the provider. The village shall
document the basis for a denial, including the specific code provisions or
application conditions on which the denial is based, and send the documentation
to the applicant on or before the day the village denies an application. The
applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the village and resubmit the
revised application once within 30 days after notice of denial is sent to the
applicant without paying an additional application fee. The village shall
approve or deny the revised application within 30 days after the applicant
resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure to resubmit the
revised application within 30 days of denial shall require the application to
submit a new application with applicable fees, and recommencement of the
village’s review period. The applicant must notify the village in writing of
its intention to proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved
basis, which may be submitted with the revised application. Any review of a
revised application shall be limited to the deficiencies cited in the denial.
However, this revised application does not apply if the cure requires the
review of a new location, new or different structure to be collocated upon, new
antennas or other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless
facility.
         (e)   Within 30 days after an approved permit to collocate a small
wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the village and the applicant
shall enter into a master pole attachment agreement, provided by the village
for the initial collocation on a municipal utility pole by the application. For
subsequent approved permits to collocate on a small wireless facility on a
municipal utility pole, the village and the applicant shall enter into a
license supplement of the master pole attachment agreement.
      (3)   Completeness of application. Within 30 days after receiving an
application, the village shall determine whether the application is complete
and notify the applicant. If an application is incomplete, the village must
specifically identify the missing information. An application shall be deemed
complete if the village fails to provide notification to the applicant within
30 days after all documents, information and fees specifically enumerated in
the village’s permit application form are submitted by the applicant to the
village. Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the village sends the
notice of incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing
information.
      (4)   Tolling. The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
         (a)   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the
village; or
         (b)   A local, state or federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
      (5)   Consolidated applications.
         (a)   An applicant seeking to collocate small wireless facilities
within the jurisdiction of the village shall be allowed, at the applicant’s
discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a single permit for
the collocation of up to 25 small wireless facilities if the collocations each
involve substantially the same type of small wireless facility and
substantially the same type of structure.
         (b)   If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities,
the village may remove small wireless facility collocations from the
application and treat separately small wireless facility collocations for which
incomplete information has been provided or that do not qualify for
consolidated treatment or that are denied. The village may issue separate
permits for each collocation that is approved in a consolidated application.
      (6)   Duration of permits.
         (a)   The duration of a permit shall be for a period of not less than
five years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent durations unless the
village makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or the new or
modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable village codes or any
provision, condition or requirement contained in this chapter.
         (b)   If the Act is repealed as provided in § 90 therein, renewals of
permits shall be subject to the applicable village code provisions or
regulations in effect at the time of renewal.
      (7)   Means of submitting applications. Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the village by personal
delivery at the village’s designated place of business, by regular mail
postmarked on the date due or by any other commonly used means, including
electronic mail.
(Ord. 408, passed 6-13-2018)
§ 150.06 APPLICATION FEES.
   Application fees are imposed as follows.
   (A)   The applicant shall pay an application fee of $650 for an application
to collocate a single small wireless facility on an existing utility pole or
wireless support structure, and $350 for each small wireless facility addressed
in a consolidated application to collocate more than one small wireless
facility on existing utility poles or wireless support structures.
   (B)   The applicant shall pay an application fee of $1,000 for each small
wireless facility addressed in an application that includes the installation of
a new utility pole for such collocation.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of state law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
   (D)   The village shall not require an application, approval or permit or
require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
      (1)   Routine maintenance;
      (2)   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the village at least ten days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with §
150.05 of this chapter; or
      (3)   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or replacement
of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung between
existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
   (E)   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the village to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
(Ord. 408, passed 6-13-2018)
§ 150.07 APPLICABILITY.
   Nothing in this chapter authorizes a person to collocate small wireless
facilities on:
   (A)   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled by
the village or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately-owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner;
   (B)   Property owned, leased or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
   (C)   (1)   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under § 18c-7201 of
the Illinois Vehicle Code, being 625 ILCS 5/18c-7201, Metra Commuter Rail or
any other public commuter rail service, or an electric utility as defined in §
16-102 of the Public Utilities Act, 220 ILCS 5/16-102, without the consent of
the rail carrier, public commuter rail service or electric utility.
      (2)   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to an electric or gas
public utility or such utility’s wireless facilities if the facilities are
being used, developed and maintained consistent with the provisions of
subsection (i) of § 16-108.5 of the Public Utilities Act, being 220 ILCS 5/16-
108.5(i). For the purposes of this division (C), PUBLIC UTILITY has the meaning
given to that term in § 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in this
chapter shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement:
         (1)   To obtain a franchise or a state-issued authorization to offer
cable service or video service; or
         (2)   To obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain or
operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities subject
to this chapter.
(Ord. 408, passed 6-13-2018)
§ 150.08 PRE-EXISTING AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Existing agreements between the village and wireless providers that
relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities in the right-of-way,
including the collocation of small wireless facilities on village utility
poles, that are in effect on 6-1-2018, remain in effect for all small wireless
facilities collocated on the village’s utility poles pursuant to applications
submitted to the village before 6-1-2018, subject to applicable termination
provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into after 6-1-2018 shall
comply with this chapter.
   (B)   A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the village on
the effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the
village makes available under this chapter for the collocation of small
wireless facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the
collocation of small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application
submitted two or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying
the village that it opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The existing
agreement remains in effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for
the small wireless facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the
village’s utility poles pursuant to applications submitted to the village
before the wireless provider provides such notice and exercises its option
under this division (B).
(Ord. 408, passed 6-13-2018)
§ 150.09 ANNUAL RECURRING RATE.
   (A)   A wireless provider shall pay to the village an annual recurring rate
to collocate a small wireless facility on a village utility pole located in a
right-of-way that equals:
      (1)   Two hundred dollars per year; or
      (2)   The actual, direct and reasonable costs related to the wireless
provider’s use of space on the village utility pole.
   (B)   If the village has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct
costs, the fee shall be $200 payable on the first day after the first annual
anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent to collocate, and
on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
(Ord. 408, passed 6-13-2018)
§ 150.10 ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous period
of 12 months shall be considered abandoned. The owner of the facility (or its
successor in interest) shall remove the small wireless facility within 90 days
after receipt of written notice from the village notifying the wireless
provider of the abandonment.
   (B)   The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, by the village to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider (or of its successor in interest). If the small wireless
facility is not removed within 90 days of such notice, the village may remove
or cause the removal of such facility pursuant to the terms of its pole
attachment agreement for municipal utility poles or through whatever actions
are provided for abatement of nuisances or by other law for removal and cost
recovery.
   (C)   A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the village if it
sells or transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the
village. Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new
wireless provider.
(Ord. 408, passed 6-13-2018)
§ 150.11 DISPUTE RESOLUTION.
   The Circuit Court of the county shall have exclusive jurisdiction to resolve
all disputes arising under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act, being
50 ILCS 840/1 et seq. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for
collocation of small wireless facilities on municipal utility poles within the
right-of-way, the village shall allow the collocating person to collocate on
its poles at annual rates of no more than $200 per year per municipal utility
pole, with rates to be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. 408, passed 6-13-2018)
§ 150.12 INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the village harmless
against any and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage
resulting from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of
the village improvements or right-of-way associated with such improvements by
the wireless provider or its employees, agents or contractors arising out of
the rights and privileges granted under this chapter and the Act.
   (B)   (1)   A wireless provider has no obligation to indemnify or hold
harmless against any liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused by the
sole negligence of the village or its employees or agents.
      (2)   A wireless provider shall further waive any claims that they may
have against the village with respect to consequential, incidental or special
damages, however caused, based on the theory of liability.
(Ord. 408, passed 6-13-2018)
§ 150.13 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider’s own cost
and expense, the following insurance:
      (1)   Property insurance for its property’s replacement cost against all
risks;
      (2)   Workers’ compensation insurance, as required by law; or
      (3)   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its
activities on the village improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum
protection limits consistent with its requirements of other users of village
improvements or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and
property damage.
   (B)   The wireless provider shall include the village as an additional
insured on the commercial general liability policy and provide certification
and documentation of inclusion of the village in a commercial general liability
policy prior to the collocation of any wireless facility.
   (C)   (1)   A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by the village.
      (2)   A wireless provider that self-insures is not required, to the
extent of the self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the name of
additional insureds under this section.
      (3)   A wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to the
village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure
the insurance coverage limits required by the village.
(Ord. 408, passed 6-13-2018)
COLLOCATION REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS
§ 150.25 PUBLIC SAFETY SPACE RESERVATION.
   The village may reserve space on municipal utility poles for future public
safety uses, for the village’s electric utility uses, or both, but a
reservation of space may not preclude the collocation of a small wireless
facility unless the village reasonably determines that the municipal utility
pole cannot accommodate both uses.
(Ord. 408, passed 6-13-2018)
§ 150.26 INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The wireless provider shall install, maintain, repair and modify its
small wireless facilities in safe condition and good repair and in compliance
with the requirements and conditions of this chapter.
   (B)   The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contracts that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
(Ord. 408, passed 6-13-2018)
§ 150.27 NO INTERFERENCE WITH PUBLIC SAFETY COMMUNICATION FREQUENCY.
   (A)   (1)   The wireless provider’s operation of the small wireless
facilities shall not interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety
agency for public safety communications.
      (2)   A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of the
type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a public
safety agency’s communications equipment.
   (B)   Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC’s regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency.
   (C)   If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the
wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by the
public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy
the interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC,
including 47 C.F.R. §§ 22.970 through 22.973 and 47 C.F.R. §§ 90.672 through
90.675.
   (D)   The village may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility based
on such interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with the
Code of Federal Regulations cited in division (C) above. Failure to remedy the
interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
(Ord. 408, passed 6-13-2018)
§ 150.28 NO COLLOCATION ON UTILITY POLES.
   (A)   The wireless provider shall not collocate small wireless facilities on
village utility poles that are part of an electric distribution or transmission
system within the communication worker safety zone of the pole or the electric
supply zone of the pole. However, the antenna and support equipment of the
small wireless facility may be located in the communications space on the
village utility pole and on the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable,
if the wireless provider complies with applicable codes for work involving the
top of the pole.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the terms COMMUNICATIONS SPACE,
COMMUNICATION WORKER SAFETY ZONE and ELECTRIC SUPPLY ZONE have the meanings
given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published by the
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
(Ord. 408, passed 6-13-2018)
§ 150.29 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The wireless provider shall comply with all applicable codes and local
code provisions or regulations that concern public safety.
   (B)   The wireless provider shall comply with written design standards that
are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or reasonable stealth,
concealment and aesthetic requirements that are set forth in a village
ordinance, written policy adopted by the village, a comprehensive plan or other
written design plan that applies to other occupiers of the rights-of-way,
including on a historic landmark or in a historic district.
(Ord. 408, passed 6-13-2018)
§ 150.30 ALTERNATE PLACEMENTS.
   Except as provided in this subchapter, a wireless provider shall not be
required to collocation small wireless facilities on any specific utility pole,
or category of utility poles, or be required to collocate multiple antenna
systems on a single utility pole. However, with respect to an application for
the collocation of a small wireless facility associated with a new utility
pole, the village may propose that the small wireless facility be collocated on
an existing utility pole or existing wireless support structure within 100 feet
of the proposed collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it has the
right to use the alternate structure on reasonable terms and conditions, and
the alternate location and structure does not impose technical limits or
additional material costs as determined by the applicant. If the applicant
refuses a collocation proposed by the village, the applicant shall provide
written certification describing the property rights, technical limits or
material cost reasons the alternate location does not satisfy the criteria in
this section.
(Ord. 408, passed 6-13-2018)
§ 150.31 HEIGHT LIMITATIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The maximum height of a small wireless facility shall be no more than
ten feet above the utility pole or wireless support structure on which the
small wireless facility is collocated. New or replacement utility poles or
wireless support structures on which small wireless facilities are collocated
may not exceed the higher of:
      (1)   Ten feet in height above the tallest existing utility pole, other
than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place on
the date the application is submitted to the village, that is located within
300 feet of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless support structure
and that is in the same right-of-way within the jurisdictional boundary of the
village; provided, the village may designate which intersecting right-of-way
within 300 feet of the proposed utility pole or wireless support structures
shall control the height limitation for such facility; or
      (2)   Forty-five feet above ground level.
   (B)   If an applicant proposes a height for a new or replacement pole in
excess of the above height limitations on which the small wireless facility is
proposed for collocation, the applicant shall apply for a special use permit,
variance or administrative waiver, whichever may be required by the village.
(Ord. 408, passed 6-13-2018)
§ 150.32 CONTRACTUAL DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   The wireless provider shall comply with requirements that are imposed by a
contract between the village and a private property owner that concern design
or construction standards applicable to utility poles and ground-mounted
equipment located in the right-of-way.
(Ord. 408, passed 6-13-2018)
§ 150.33 GROUND-MOUNTED EQUIPMENT SPACING.
   The wireless provider shall comply with applicable spacing requirements in
applicable codes and ordinances concerning the location of ground-mounted
equipment located in the right-of-way if the requirements include a waiver,
zoning or other process that addresses wireless provider requests for exception
or variance and do not prohibit granting of such exceptions or variances.
(Ord. 408, passed 6-13-2018)
§ 150.34 UNDERGROUNDING REGULATIONS.
   The wireless provider shall comply with local code provisions or regulations
concerning undergrounding requirements that prohibit the installation of new or
the modification of existing utility poles in a right-of-way without prior
approval if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that
addresses requests to install such new utility poles or modify such existing
utility poles and do not prohibit the replacement of utility poles.
(Ord. 408, passed 6-13-2018)
§ 150.35 COLLOCATION COMPLETION DEADLINE.
   Collocation for which a permit is granted shall be completed within 180 days
after issuance of the permit, unless the village and the wireless provider
agree to extend this period or a delay is caused by make-ready work for a
municipal utility pole or by the lack of commercial power or backhaul
availability at the site; provided, the wireless provider has made a timely
request within 60 days after the issuance of the permit for commercial power or
backhaul services, and the additional time to complete installation does not
exceed 360 days after issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the permit shall be
void unless the village grants an extension in writing to the applicant.
(Ord. 408, passed 6-13-2018)
CHAPTER 151: CAMPERS AND OTHER RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Trailer camps prohibited
   
151.03   Removal of wheels prohibited
   
151.04   Habitation prohibited
   
151.05   Parking and storage requirements
   
151.06   Service connection restrictions
   
151.07   Derelict recreational vehicles prohibited
   
151.08   Permit required for resident and non-resident vehicle owner
   
151.09   Inspection required
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOAT. Any device used, or capable of being used, for navigation on water.
   BOAT TRAILER. Every vehicle designed or utilized for the transportation of
any boat having the gross weight of less than 5,000 pounds, without motor
power, designed for being drawn by another vehicle.
   BUILDING LINE. The front of a building structure.
   CAMPER or TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicle, portable in structure, built on a
chassis, designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational
and vacation uses, and which is drawn by a motor vehicle.
   CAMPING AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Any boat, any boat mounted on a trailer,
any camp trailer, any travel trailer or any other unit built or mounted on a
vehicle or chassis, without permanent foundation, which may legally be driven
or towed by a motor vehicle on a highway.
   DERELICT(S). Any vehicular equipment which is no longer capable of its
intended function.
   DRIVEWAY. An established and sometimes surfaced portion of a lot whose use
is for the purpose of ingress and egress to a carport, garage, parking area or
loading and unloading station for vehicles.
   LOT LINE. The property line bounding a lot.
   MOTORIZED HOME OR CAMPER. A portable dwelling designed as an integral part
of a self- propelled vehicle.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lien holder, having the property in, or title
to, recreational equipment, as defined in this section.
   PICKUP COACH. A structure designed primarily to be mounted on a pickup or
truck chassis and with sufficient equipment to render it suitable for use as a
temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and vacation uses.
   REAR YARD. The open space on the same lot with a building, between the rear
line of the building and the rear line of the lot, for the full width of the
lot.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES. A camper or travel trailer, pickup coach, motorized
home or camper, boat trailer or boat, as defined in this section.
   SIDE YARD. The yard extending around the side lot line between the front and
rear yards.
   TRAILER. A closed or open vehicle designed to be pulled or propelled by a
truck or car to be used primarily for the hauling of materials or equipment,
including, but not limited to, contractor’s equipment, motorcycles,
snowmobiles, trucks or automobiles, or other similar use, having no living
quarters and being licensed as a TRAILER.
   TRAILER CAMP. A lot of ground where any recreational vehicle, with or
without wheels, and used as living or sleeping quarters, may be located,
whether or not a charge is made for such accommodations.
(Ord. 442, passed 7-13-2022)
§ 151.02 TRAILER CAMPS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, maintain or operate any
plot of ground as a trailer camp for human habitation within the village’s
corporate limits.
(Ord. 442, passed 7-13-2022) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03 REMOVAL OF WHEELS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove the wheels or other
transportation device from any house car trailer or travel trailer or to
otherwise fix the house car trailer or travel trailer permanently to the ground
as to prevent ready removal of the trailer.
(Ord. 442, passed 7-13-2022) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.04 HABITATION PROHIBITED.
   No camper or travel trailer, pickup coach or motorized home or boat shall be
used for living or sleeping or housekeeping within the village limits.
(Ord. 442, passed 7-13-2022) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.05 PARKING AND STORAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or store any
camping vehicle or house trailer on any real property within the village,
except as provided in this section.
   (B)   (1)   If a camper or travel trailer, pickup coach, motorized home,
boat trailer or boat, not exceeding the overall width of eight and one-half
feet and not exceeding the overall height of 12 feet, excluding mast, and not
exceeding an overall length of 36 feet, or a trailer not exceeding an overall
width of eight and one-half feet and not exceeding an overall height of 12
feet, and not exceeding an overall length of 24 feet, it may be parked or
stored on a residential lot at the rear of the lot or inside of a garage or in
the side yard, away from the front side of a residence.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the above, recreational vehicles may be parked in
front of the building for a period of time not to exceed 48 hours per month in
duration for the purpose of loading, unloading and cleaning; except that,
recreational vehicles which display “For Sale” signs may be parked in front of
the building line for a period not exceeding 30 days.
   (C)   Trailers and recreational vehicles shall not be used as an accessory
structure. No trailer or recreational vehicle shall be used for the storage of
goods, materials or equipment, other than those items required for its intended
purpose.
   (D)   At no time shall parked or stored vehicles be occupied or used for
living, sleeping or housekeeping purposes.
   (E)   (1)   The owner of a camper or travel trailer, pickup coach, motorized
home or other trailer or boat shall not park or store such camper or travel
trailer, pickup coach, motorized home or other trailer or boat in such a manner
as to create a dangerous or unsafe condition on the property where parked or
stored. Parking or storage in such a fashion that the camper or travel trailer,
pickup coach, motorized home or other trailer or boat, whether loaded or not,
may readily tip or roll shall be considered a dangerous and unsafe condition.
      (2)   The ground under and surrounding any parked recreational vehicle or
trailer shall be free of noxious weeds, overgrowth, litter or debris.
   (F)   A vehicle parked or stored on a licensed business premises, such as
for rental or sale, shall not be a violation of this section.
   (G)   Not more than two vehicles of recreational or trailer type shall be
parked or stored in the open on a residential lot.
(Ord. 442, passed 7-13-2022) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06 SERVICE CONNECTION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No camper or travel trailer, pickup coach, motorized home or other
trailer or boat shall have gas, electric, water or sewer service connected to
it.
   (B)   With one exception: upon written request of a property owner, the
village may authorize short-term electric hook-up (for a period of less than 30
days) to accommodate a property owner’s visitors.
(Ord. 442, passed 7-13-2022) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.07 DERELICT RECREATIONAL VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No vehicular equipment shall be placed or stored out-of-doors on residential
property if its condition is derelict (not safe or effective for its intended
purpose) or if its condition has deteriorated or is unsightly.
(Ord. 442, passed 7-13-2022) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR PRESIDENT AND NON-RESIDENT VEHICLE OWNER.
   (A)   Permits shall be decided on a case-by-case basis.
   (B)   An owner of a camper, travel trailer, pickup coach, motorized home or
other trailer or boat who
resides within the village may apply to the Village Board for a permit to park
such vehicle on that resident's property for a specified period in a calendar
year.
   (C)   An owner of a camper, travel trailer, pickup coach, motorized home or
other trailer or boat who
does not reside within the village may apply to the Village Board to park such
vehicle on a specified residential property located within the village for a
period not to exceed 30 days in a calendar year.
   (D)   The parking permit fee shall be set by the Village Board and is
currently $50. The fee may be
subsequently changed by an ordinance passed by the Village Board.
(Ord. 442, passed 7-13-2022; Ord. 459, passed 8-14-2024)
§ 151.09 INSPECTION REQUIRED.
   Any camper, travel trailer, pickup coach, motorized home or other trailer or
boat shall be subject to inspection by one or more village officials.
(Ord. 442, passed 7-13-2022)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating this chapter shall be punished by a fine of not
less than $50 per offense, nor more than $750 per offense. Each day that a
violation exists or continues shall be considered a separate offense.
   (B)   (1)   The vehicles defined and/or listed in this chapter are used for
recreational purposes only. None are designed to serve as anything more than a
temporary dwelling (less than 30 days total in a calendar year). At no time may
they be used in the village as a permanent or semi-permanent dwelling. (Prima
facie evidence of use as a permanent dwelling include: constructing a porch;
removing wheels from the vehicles; and fixing the vehicle to the ground to
prevent easy removal.)
      (2)   Any person who is in violation of this chapter as of its effective
date (which is ten days after passage of the ordinance) has 90 days from that
date to remove the recreational vehicle from the village or to bring it within
conformity of the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Any request for a variance from the provisions of this chapter must
be presented in writing to the Village Board and supported by sufficient
information on which to make a decision. The written variance request will be
acted upon at a regular or special meeting of the Board at which the request is
listed as an agenda item.
(Ord. 442, passed 7-13-2022)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
      
II.   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
      
III.   COVID-RELATED FUNDS AND PROCEDURES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
190      9-2-1965    Granting a gas utility franchise to Central Illinois
                     Public Service Company
369      3-13-2013   Approving an agreement for residential solid waste
                     collection and disposal
390      9-9-2015    Extending a gas utility franchise to Ameren Illinois
                     Company, d/b/a Ameren Illinois
428      1-13-2021   Granting a fiber optic communication system franchise to
                     Adams Telesystems, Inc.
                    
 
 
TABLE II: MUNICIPAL PROPERTY
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally-owned real estate
248      9-10-1987   (part of the west half of the southwest quarter of Section
                     23, Township 3 North, Range 6 West)
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally-owned real estate
374      11-13-2013  (part of the former railroad right- of-way located between
                     Second and Third Streets)
385      3-11-2015   Authorizing the sale of municipally-owned real estate (308
                     E. Church Street)
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally-owned real estate
409      7-11-2018   (part of the former railroad right- of-way; parcels 3 and
                     5)
424      6-10-2020   Authorizing the sale of municipally-owned real estate (208
                     W. 2nd Street)
429      1-12-2021   Authorizing the sale of municipally-owned real estate (102
                     Elm Street)
                     Authorizing the sale of municipally-owned real estate
430      1-13-2021   (part of the former railroad right- of-way; parcels 1 and
                     2)
432      4-9-2021    Authorizing the sale of municipally-owned real estate
                     (surplus property)
438      12-8-2021   Declaring the need to use and occupy certain land for a
                     public use (Chili Township Park District property)
446      9-20-2022   Authorizing the sale of municipally-owned real estate
                     (surplus property)
454      10-11-2024  Authorizing the sale of municipally-owned real estate
                     (surplus property)
                    
 
TABLE III: COVID-RELATED FUNDS AND PROCEDURES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorizing and approving the financial support conditions
426      9-17-2020   and certification necessary for reimbursement of funds
                     through the Local Coronavirus Urgent Remediation Emergency
                     Support Program (Local CURE Program)
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Cite Code Section
ILCS Cite                Code Section
5 ILCS 70/1.01           10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.02           10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.03           10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.04           10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.07           10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.08           10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.09           10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.10           10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.11           10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.12           10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.15           10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.16           10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.17           10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.20           10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.24           10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.28           10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.29           10.02
5 ILCS 70/2              10.04
5 ILCS 425/83            30.02
5 ILCS 430               30.99
5 ILCS 430, Article 10   30.02
5 ILCS 430/10-10 et seq. 30.02
5 ILCS 430/15-10         30.03
5 ILCS 430/5-65          30.03
50 ILCS 840              Ch. 150
50 ILCS 840/1 et seq.    150.11
55 ILCS 5/5-1127         70.01
65 ILCS 5                10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2          10.02
                         Adopting Ordinance,
                         10.99;
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1          52.99;
                         110.99;
                         111.99
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.1        10.99
65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1        10.17
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-5       30.05
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-10      30.05
65 ILCS 5/3.1-50-15      30.05
70 ILCS 1205/3-9         70.01
220 ILCS 5/16-102        150.07
220 ILCS 5/16-108.5(i)   150.07
225 ILCS 225/1 et seq.   52.02
225ILCS 340/4(f)         150.05
230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.    112.11
230 ILCS 40/5            112.02
235 ILCS 5/7-5           110.05
410 ILCS 705             111.01
625 ILCS                 70.05
625 ILCS 12-802(a)       70.01
625 ILCS 12-803          70.01
625 ILCS 12-805          70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-102         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-104.2       70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-105         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-106         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-107         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-108         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-111.8       70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-112         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-113         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-116         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-117.7       70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-120         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-120.7       70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-125         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-126         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-130         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-131         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-132         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-135         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-136         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-137         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-138         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-139.1       70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-140         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-140.10      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-140.15      70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-141         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-145.001     70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-146         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-147         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-148.2       70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-148.3       70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-148.3a-5    70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-148.6       70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-153         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-154         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-155         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-156         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-157         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-157.5       70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-158         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-159.1       70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-162         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-162.3       70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-162.5       70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-163         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-166         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-166.1       70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-167         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-167.5       70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-168         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-169         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-171         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-171.6       70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-171.8       70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-172         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-174         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-176         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-177         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-178         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-179         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-181         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-182         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-187         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-187.1       70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-188         10.02;
                         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-193         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-194         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-195         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-196         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-197         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-199         70.01
625 ILCS 5/1-207         70.01
625 ILCS 5/3-401.5       70.01
625 ILCS 5/11-301        52.05
625 ILCS 5/11-1426.1     Ch. 70
625 ILCS 5/12-603.1      70.06
625 ILCS 5/18b-101       112.02
625 ILCS 5/18c-7201      150.07
625 ILCS 25/1 et seq.    70.06
740 ILCS 174/15(a)       30.03
740 ILCS 174/15(b)       30.03
775 ILCS 5/6-101         30.03
820 ILCS 130/1 et seq.   30.06
                         
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
190      9-2-1965    TSO Table I
                     90.01—
232      7-14-1982   90.03;
                     90.99
248      9-10-1987   TSO Table II
                     91.01—
268      3-9-1994    91.07;
                     91.99
274      4-12-1995   51.01—
                     51.08
                     110.01—
287      9-16-1998   110.05;
                     110.99
                     52.01—
303      4-11-2001   52.06;
                     52.99
304      4-11-2001   52.07
                     92.01—
322      7-14-2014   92.09;
                     92.99
332      6-14-2006   50.01;
                     50.99
357      8-9-2011    90.99;
                     91.99
                     90.04;
360      1-18-2012   90.05;
                     91.05
360      1-18-2012   91.05
364      8-8-2012    90.02;
                     90.05
369      3-13-2013   TSO Table I
370      4-10-2013   50.15—
                     50.18
374      11-13-2013  TSO Table II
376      1-8-2014    110.02;
                     110.99
                     51.02;
381      8-20-2014   51.08;
                     52.07
390      9-9-2015    TSO Table I
385      3-11-2015   TSO Table II
                     93.01—
392      10-7-2015   93.03;
                     93.99
395      1-13-2016   52.03;
                     52.99
397      6-8-2016    51.07;
                     91.07
404      8-7-2017    51.07
413      1-11-2018   30.03;
                     30.99
                     150.01—
408      6-13-2018   150.13;
                     150.25—
                     150.35
409      7-11-2018   TSO Table II
                     70.01—
410      7-12-2018   70.07;
                     70.99
414      1-9-2019    51.08
415      3-13-2019   30.05
416      - -2019     50.18
417      - -2019     110.02
418      - -2019     91.06
                     111.01—
423      1-8-2020    111.03;
                     111.99
424      6-10-2020   TSO Table II
426      9-17-2020   TSO Table III
426      10-14-2020  52.03
429      1-12-2021   TSO Table II
428      1-13-2021   TSO Table I
430      1-13-2021   TSO Table II
432      4-9-2021    TSO Table II
431      4-14-2021   51.07;
                     52.03
434      8-11-2021   51.07;
                     52.03
438      12-8-2021   TSO Table II
439      2-9-2022    110.02
441      - -2022     51.02
                     151.01—
442      7-13-2022   151.09;
                     151.99
446      9-20-2022   TSO Table II
445      9-21-2022   30.01
447      - -2022     112.01—
                     112.03
449      11-9-2022   50.18
                     51.01;
451      7-12-2023   51.06;
                     51.07
                     112.01—
453      11-8-2023   112.14;
                     112.99
454      10-11-2024  TSO Table II
457      1-10-2024   30.07
458      7-10-2024   Adopting Ordinance
459      8-14-2024   151.08
                     71.01,
463      3-12-2025   71.02,
                     71.99
464      3-12-2025   30.05
465      3-12-2025   30.08
466      4-9-2025    50.01
467      4-9-2025    51.07
                    
 
 
