Comprehensive Ordinance List
Publisher's Note: The following table lists all ordinances passed by the
Village of Brighton. The table includes links to the ordinances, as maintained
in PDF format. For other legislation, including ordinances passed prior to
2024, please contact the Village of Brighton.
 
Ordinances that amend the Code and are not yet effective have their
identifiying information highlighted in yellow. Changes made by those
ordinances are not incorporated into the text of the Code until the amending
ordinances are effective. Ordinances that do not affect the code have been
grayed out.
 
Jump to:
2024 Ordinances
2025 Ordinances
2024 Ordinances
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
                   Prohibiting unauthorized camping on public property within
2024-02  5-6-2024  the village
                    
                   130.20
                   Prohibiting the use of storage containers in the village
2024-03  5-6-2024   
                   151.04
2024-04  6-3-2024  Authorizing appointment of village clerk rather than an
                   election
                   Holiday Schedule
R-1-2024 6-3-2024   
                   33.01
                   Enacting a code of ordinances for the village
2024-05  7-1-2024   
                   ADO
2024-06  7-1-2024  Appropriating for all corporate purposes for the village of
                   Brighton, Macoupin, and Jersey counties, IL
                   Amending Chapter 50, Section 62 Disconnect service for
2024-07  8-5-2024  nonpayment; notice; charges recitals
                    
                   50.62
                   Allocate fuel to the zoning code official
2024-08  8-5-2024   
                   31.03
                   Amending salaries of elected officials
2024-09  10-7-2024  
                   30.16
                   Approving disposal of surplus property
2024-10  9-30-2024  
                   TSO V
                   Approving disposal of surplus property
2024-11  9-30-2024  
                   TSO V
                   Amending code regarding Nuisances
2024-12  11-4-2024  
                   Adding 91.13
                   Authorizing use of village owned property and streets for
2024-14  11-4-2024 construction and improvement of the water system
                    
                   TSO VI
                   Municipal grocery retailers' occupation tax and muncipal
2024-15  12-2-2024 grocery service occupation tax
                    
                   35.079
2024-16  12-2-2024 Tax Levy
                   Appointment; term; qualifications of village clerk
2024-17  11-4-2024  
                   31.15
 
 
2025 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
2025-1   2-11-2025 License agreement
                   Updating personal leave in personnel policy
2025-03  4-7-2025   
                   33.01
                   Construction and placement of modular homes
2025-04  4-7-2025   
                   155.055
                   Regulating amount of time to address governing body at
2025-05  4-7-2025  meetings
                    
                   30.02
                   Appointment of Village Clerk
2025-06  5-5-2025   
                   31.15
                   Repealing Clerk's Committee
2025-07  5-5-2025   
                   31.22
                   Repealing Village Collector position
2025-08  5-5-2025   
                   31.19
                   Standing Committees
2025-09  6-2-2025   
                   30.07
                  
                  
                  
 
 
BRIGHTON, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-09, passed 6-2-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
Ordinance 2024-05
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE VILLAGE OF BRIGHTON, IL
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE VILLAGE OF BRIGTHON DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Village of
Brighton are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form
and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of its
affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Illinois empower and
authorize the Village of Brighton to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile
any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or
published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance book form; and
WHEREAS, the Board of Trustees of the Village of Brighton has authorized a
general compilation, revision, and codification of the ordinances of the
Village of Brighton of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE VILLAGE OF
BRIGHTON, IL:
Section 1. The general ordinances of the Village of Brighton as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Village of Brighton."
Section 2. Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the
following Titles:
 
Title I: General Provisions  Title XI: Business Regulations
Title Ill: Administration    Title XIII: General Offenses
Title V: Public Works        Title XV: Land Usage
Title VII: Traffic Code      Table of Special Ordinances
Title IX: General Regulation  
 
Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such Code
of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of
this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part
in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or
penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain person, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money,
authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or
accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal
affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4. Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Village of
Brighton is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5. Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for
the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety, and general welfare of
the people of this municipality and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Brighton on this
1 day of July, 2024.
 
   (Seal)                           \s\ Matthew P. Kasten
                              Matthew P. Kasten
                              Village President
                              Brighton, Illinois
ATTEST:
\s\ Tamara Jenkins
   Tamara Jenkins, VillageClerk
   Brighton, Illinois
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the Village of Brighton shall be designated as
the Code of Brighton and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES or VILLAGE BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the village.
   COUNTIES. Macoupin and Jersey Counties, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The County Boards of Macoupin and Jersey Counties, Illinois.
(5 ILCS 70/1.07)
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT.
(5 ILCS 70/1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections.
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of that officer,
either generally or in special cases.
(5 ILCS 70/1.08)
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER. HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution, or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at
any time after that date.
(5 ILCS 70/1.17)
   HIGHWAY, ROAD, or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of this state, or of any town or county of this state, and
all bridges thereupon.
(5 ILCS 70/1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MAYOR. The President of the Village of Brighton.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(5 ILCS 70/1.12)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser, and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures, and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals.
(5 ILCS 70/1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS. Police officers employed and in the service of the village.
POLICE FORCEshall be construed to include those persons in the employ of a
village as members of the Department of Police, who are or shall hereafter be
appointed and sworn as POLICE OFFICERS.
(5 ILCS 70/1.20)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, county, state, or federal governments, officers, and agencies thereof,
or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized public
official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail, and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb lines or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares, and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The village code hereby adopted, and
as hereinafter modified by amendment, revision, and by the adoption of new
titles, chapters, or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in § 1 of Article VII of
the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.28)
   VILLAGE. The Village of Brighton.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents, and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic, and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law,
except as otherwise provided by law, it shall be:
      (1)   In the proper handwriting of that person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark; or
      (2)   An electronic signature as defined in the Uniform Electronic
Transactions Act, except as otherwise provided by law.
(5 ILCS 70/1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord.”
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
§ 10.03 SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular.
(5 ILCS 70/1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(5 ILCS 70/1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(5 ILCS 70/1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded. If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday, or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday
or Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded.
(5 ILCS 70/1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(5 ILCS 70/1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the Mayor and
Board of Trustees may be fully carried out.
(5 ILCS 70/1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, insofar as they are the same as those
of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(5 ILCS 70/2)
§ 10.05 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the village shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment, or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) below:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation, or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded, or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding, or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment. The
investigation, proceeding, or remedy may be instituted, continued, or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for any offense is reduced
by a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context
clearly indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was
not intended.
§ 10.08 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of these
codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
bearing the latest passage date shall prevail. If the conflicting provisions
bear the same passage date, the conflict shall be construed so as to be
consistent with the meaning or legal effect of the questions of the subject
matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.09 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or in any
way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering system of
this code and printed for inclusion herein, or in the case of repealed
chapters, sections, and subsections, or any part thereof, by subsequent
ordinances, the repealed portions may be excluded from the code by the omission
from reprinted pages affected thereby, and the subsequent ordinances as
numbered and printed or omitted, in the case of repeal, shall be prima facie
evidence of subsequent ordinances until this code of ordinances and subsequent
ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted as a new code of ordinances by the
Board of Trustees.
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end, the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11 REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. These references
shall also include the designee or agent of the officer or office, unless the
law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to, tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming, or vacating streets, alleys, or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the village; and all special ordinances), as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance, by its nature, either authorizes or enables the Board
of Trustees or a certain village officer or employee to make additional
regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
regulations of a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the
codification, and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are
saved.
§ 10.16 TECHNICAL CODES.
   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to the technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the village. Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17 HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section.
      Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20,
passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text of the
section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute.    
      Example: (65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1)
   (C)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text
of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
      § 38.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         The village shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information
Act.
      Statutory reference:
         Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty.
      (1)   General penalty imposed. Unless specifically provided elsewhere in
this code or state statute, any person found to have been in violation of any
of the terms and provisions of this code shall be fined in an amount not to
exceed $750. No imprisonment for failure to pay such fine, penalty, or cost
shall exceed six months for each offense. Each day that a violation continues
shall be deemed to be a separate offense. A penalty for each offense may
include a requirement that the offending party perform some reasonable public
service work such as, but not limited to, picking up litter in public parks or
upon public highways or performing maintenance of public facilities. A
violation hereof may be established by a preponderance of the evidence.
      (2)   Incarceration for misdemeanor. If, by the terms of an ordinance, an
act that would be consistent with the criminal laws of the state is declared to
be a misdemeanor, the penalty therefor shall be for a period of incarceration
in a penal institution other than the penitentiary not to exceed six months.
The matter shall be prosecuted under the rules of criminal procedure of the
state, and the village shall be required to establish guilt beyond a reasonable
doubt.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-1)
   (B)   Application of provisions.
      (1)   Application of penalty. The penalty provided in this chapter shall
be applicable to every section of this village code the same as though it were
a part of each and every separate section.
      (2)   One judgment only. In all cases where the same offense is made
punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this village code,
the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
      (3)   Breach of provisions. Whenever the doing of any act or the omission
to do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this village
code and there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such
breach, the provisions of this chapter shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-2)
   (C)   Liability of officers. No provision of this village code designating
the duties of any officer or employee shall be so construed as to make such
officer or employee liable for any fine or penalty provided for a failure to
perform such duty, unless the intention of the Village Board of Trustees to
impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is specifically and
clearly expressed in the section creating the duty.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-3)
   (D)   Minor ordinance violations.
      (1)   Procedure. In order to more efficiently and reasonably administer
minor violations of the ordinances of the village, the Board of Trustees hereby
establishes an ordinance violations procedure.
      (2)   Issuance of tickets. In instances of minor violations, such as
violation of building and health codes, minor traffic violations and animal and
nuisance violations, and other minor ordinance violations, police officers of
the village may issue an ordinance violation citation or ticket, hereinafter
referred to as an “OVT,” for certain minor violations in lieu of arrest or the
immediate prosecution in the Circuit Court of the state.
      (3)   Circumstances of issuance; exceptions.
         (a)   An OVT shall only be issued for village ordinance violations and
those other than a violation involving circumstances in which an individual is
accused of driving under the influence of alcohol or illegal drugs,
circumstances in which an individual is accused of driving more than 15 mph
over the applicable speed limit, and circumstances posing a threat to the
safety of the community.
         (b)   An OVT shall not be issued to any individual who has previously
been issued an OVT for the same ordinance violation within the preceding six-
month period.
         (c)   An OVT shall only be issued in instances in which the individual
accused of an ordinance violation cooperates fully with the police officers
and/or in the relevant investigation of the alleged ordinance violation.
      (4)   Claim settlement procedures. 
         (a)   When an OVT is issued, the individual may settle and compromise
the claim by paying to the Village Clerk a fine in the amount of $50 within ten
days of the date of issuance of the OVT.
         (b)   When compliance with an ordinance is required, the person
accused shall satisfy the proper village authorities that compliance has been
met and completed within said ten-day period.
      (5)   Failure to comply.
         (a)   In the event that payment of the aforesaid $50 fine and the
compliance as required are not accomplished within the said ten-day period, the
applicable fine shall be increased to the amount of $75 for the period
beginning on the eleventh day and including the thirtieth day after issuance of
the OVT. The offender shall have until the close of business on the thirtieth
day to satisfy the $75 charge and comply with the terms of the applicable
ordinance.
         (b)   If the person accused of said violation does not settle the
charge, including payment of the fine and compliance to the requirements of the
ordinance by the thirtieth day, a complaint shall be filed in the Circuit Court
of Macoupin County, Illinois, for said violation. The offender shall be subject
to fines, penalties, and court costs as fully set forth in the applicable
sections and provisions of the ordinance violated, together with the statutes
in such case made and provided of the state.
(Prior Code, § 1-4-4)
(Ord. 575, passed 12-6-1999; Ord. 627, passed 5-24-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Penalty, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1 and 5/1-2-1.1
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GOVERNING BODY
      
31.   VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS AND OFFICIALS
      
32.   PUBLIC SAFETY
      
33.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
34.   ETHICS
      
35.   FINANCE AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: GOVERNING BODY
Section
Mayor and Board of Trustees
   
30.01   Election; term; qualifications
   
30.02   Meetings
   
30.03   Oath
   
30.04   Bond of Mayor
   
30.05   Duties
   
30.06   Compensation
   
30.07   Standing committees
MAYOR AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 30.01 ELECTION; TERM; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Village Mayor. The Mayor shall be elected for a term of four years,
and shall serve until his or her successor is elected and qualified, as
provided by statute.
   (B)   Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees of the village shall consist
of six members and shall be elected to office as provided by statute. The
Trustees shall serve four-year terms, which shall be staggered as provided by
65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-5.
   (C)   Qualifications. A person is not eligible for the office of the Mayor
or a member of the Board of Trustees unless that person is a qualified elector
of the village and has resided in the village at least one year next preceding
the election, as provided by 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-1)
§ 30.02 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. The regular stated meetings of the Village Board
shall be held in the Village Hall Building on the first Monday of each month at
7:00 p.m. When the meeting date falls upon a legal holiday, the meeting shall
be held on the following Monday at the same hour and place, unless otherwise
designated. Adjourned and reconvened meetings may be held at such times as may
be determined by the Trustees.
   (B)   Special meetings.
      (1)   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or by any three members
of the Board by written request or notice being filed with the Village Clerk at
least 36 hours prior to the time specified for such meeting.
      (2)   At least 24 hours’ written notice of such special meeting shall be
given by the Clerk, which notice shall specify the time and purpose of such
meeting and shall be delivered electronically to each member of the Board, if
such member can be found, and if such member cannot be found, then by leaving a
copy of such notice at the home of such Board member in the presence of an
adult member of the family of the Trustee.
   (C)   Open meetings. All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public,
except executive sessions thereof, pursuant to 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
   (D)   Accessibility.
      (1)   The village shall enforce handicapped accessibility standards that
comply with and/or in accordance with the 504 Accessibility Assessment as
adopted by the United States Department of Justice.
      (2)   The village hereby adopts by reference the rules and regulations
regarding handicapped accessibility issued by the United States Department of
Justice.
      (3)   The village will notify the public and other interested parties
that village meetings, hearings, and conferences will be held in accessible
locations and that assistance will be provided, upon request, to interested
participants with handicaps.
      (4)   Complaints will be accepted, noted, and discussed at subsequent
Village Board meetings.
      (5)   All future construction and renovation work involving public
facilities will be designed to accommodate the handicapped.
      (6)   Transportation, facilities to communicate with hearing-impaired
persons, and other required measures needed by handicapped individuals will be
available to those individuals interested in participating in community
activities, provided enough advance notice is given to local officials.
   (E)   Public Comment.
      (1)   Any person not a member of the Village Board may address the
Village Board with regard to items of proposed business, under the following
rules:
         (a)   All non-members shall rise and stand, stating their name for the
record for meeting minutes;
      (b)   All individual, non-members are allowed five minutes of
uninterrupted comment;
      (c)   If a group of four or more non-members in attendance request public
comment on a specific issue, up to three non-member individuals shall be
nominated from the group to address the Village Board, with a collective 20
minute maximum time limit of public comment;
      (d)   Public comment does not permit entering into a discussion directly
with the Village Board, or the Mayor; and
      (e)   Any person making personal or impertinent remarks, or who becomes
disruptive, shall be evicted from the meeting by the Mayor, or Chairman.
   (F)   Remote Attendance Policy.
      (1)   It is the policy of the Village of Brighton that a member of the
governing body, subject to the provisions of the Open Meetings Act, may attend
and participate in any open or closed meetings from a remote location, via
telephone, video or internet connection, provided that such attendance and
participation is in compliance with this policy and the laws of the State of
Illinois;
      (2)   The following prerequisites must apply:
         (a)   The member must notify the Village Clerk at least 24 hours
before the meeting, unless in case of an emergency;
         (b)   The member must meet one of the four reasons described herein
why the member is unable to physically attend the meeting:
            1.   Personal illness or disability;
            2,   Employment purposes or the business of the public body;
            3.   A family or other emergency; or
            4.   Unexpected childcare obligations.
         (c)   A quorum of the physically present governing body must be
present to consider whether to allow the individual to attend the meeting
remotely. If a quorum of the members is physically present, a vote shall be
taken to allow remote participation. A vote of majority of the quorum shall be
necessary to decide the issue.
         (d)   Meeting minutes shall reflect whether a member is an off-site
participant.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-2) (Ord. 165A, passed 6-8-1943; Res. 611, passed 3-3-2003;
Ord. 2023-8, passed 3-6- 2023; Ord. 2025-5, passed 4-7-2025)
§ 30.03 OATH.
   The Mayor and Board of Trustees shall take the oath of office prescribed by
statute before assuming the duties of such office.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-3)
§ 30.04 BOND OF MAYOR.
   Before entering upon the duties of such office, the Mayor shall execute a
bond in the amount of not less than $10,000, with such sureties as may be
required and approved by the Board of Trustees, conditioned upon the faithful
performance of such office. The Mayor’s bond shall be on file in the office of
the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-4)
§ 30.05 DUTIES.
   (A)   Mayor.
      (1)   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the village and
shall perform such duties as may be required of such official by ordinance or
statute.
      (2)   The Mayor, as chief executive officer of the village, shall engage
in the performance of his or her official duties on behalf of the village at
least ten hours per week.
      (3)   Said duties shall be performed in the designated office of the
Mayor at the Village Municipal Building.
   (B)   Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees shall be the legislative
branch of the village government and shall perform such duties and have such
powers as may be authorized by 65 ILCS 5/3.1-45-15.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-5) (Res. R01-2020, passed 10-8-2020)
§ 30.06 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   All compensation set forth herein shall become effective at the first
meeting after the July 1, 2024 election. The Village Trustees shall be paid as
follows:
      (1)   Eighty dollars for each regular Board meeting attended;
      (2)   Forty dollars for each special Board meeting attended; and
      (3)   Forty dollars for each committee meeting attended when the Board
meets as a whole on such committee.
   (B)   Effective July 1, 2024, the Village Mayor shall be paid $12,600 per
year.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-6) (Ord. 621, passed 5-24-2004; Ord. 711, passed 5-2-2011;
Res. passed 2-3-2014; Ord. 2020-08, passed 5-4-2020; Res. R01-2020, passed 10-
8-2020; Ord. 2024-09, 10-7-2024)
§ 30.07 STANDING COMMITTEES.
   A.   Committees Established: The following standing committees are hereby
established:
      1.   Public Works Committee: The Public Works Committee will consist of a
minimum of two (2) Trustees, one of which will serve as chairperson, and a
minimum of three (3) non-trustee members may be appointed at the discretion of
the Village President, with approval of the Village Board of Trustees. The
Public Works Committee will serve as an advisory body to the Village Board of
Trustees in matters related to:
         a.   The operation of the Public Works Department;
         b.   Maintenance of current municipal structures and facilities with
the planning of any future building needs;
         c.   Policy regarding access to municipal buildings and facilities;
      2.   Public Safety Committee: The Public Safety Committee will consist of
a minimum of two (2) Trustees, one of which will serve as chairperson, and a
minimum of three (3) non-trustee members may be appointed at the discretion of
the Village President, with approval of the Village Board of Trustees. The
Public Safety Committee will serve as an advisory body to the Village Board of
Trustees in matters related to:
         a.   The operation of the police department;
         b.   The regulation of vehicular traffic on Village streets;
         c.   The placement of lighting within the Village;
         d.   The operation of the animal control department;
         e.   The emergency services and disaster agency; and
         f.   The President of the Village shall appoint a member of this
committee to serve as a liaison to other public safety, emergency, and/or
disaster agencies, and provide recommendations to the Village Board of
Trustees, as needed.
      3.   Park and Recreation Committee: The Park and Recreation Committee
will consist of a minimum of two (2) Trustees, one of which will serve as
chairperson, and a minimum of six (6) non-trustee members may be appointed at
the discretion of the Village President, with approval of the Village Board of
Trustees. The Park and Recreation Committee will serve as an advisory body to
the Village Board of Trustees on matters related to the development and use of
Village parks and promotion of recreational activities and events.
      4.   Community Development Committee: The Community Development Committee
will consist of a minimum of two (2) Trustees, one of which will serve as
chairperson, and a minimum of five (5) non-trustee members. Members shall be
appointed by the President of the Village Board and confirmed with the advice
and consent of the Village Board of Trustees. The Community Development
Committee will serve as an advisory body to the Village Board of Trustees on
matters related to the planning and economic development of the Village.
         a.   The Community Development Committee shall meet on the second
Tuesday of every month.
   (B)   Appointment of committees.
      (1)   Appointment. All standing committees will be appointed by the Mayor
with the advice and consent of the Village Board of Trustees. The Village Mayor
will present the names of the standing committee members to the Village Board
in writing at the start of the fiscal year. The Village Board of Trustees will
then vote on the appointments.
      (2)   Chairperson. The first named Trustee of each committee will serve
as chairperson and the next named Trustee will serve as recorder. In the event
of the absence of the committee chairperson, the recorder will act as
chairperson.
      (3)   Call special meetings. The committee chairperson or the Mayor is
authorized to call a special meeting if he or she determines that business must
be conducted before the next scheduled regular meeting.
      (4)   Terms of office. The terms of office for the standing committees
will end with the end of the fiscal year.
      (5)   Ex officio member. The Mayor will serve as an ex officio member of
all committees.
(Prior Code, § 1-5-7) (Ord. 529, passed 6-7-1993; Ord. 621, passed 5-24-2004;
Ord. 712, passed 5-2-2011; Ord. 2025-09, passed 6-2-2025)
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS AND OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Rate of compensation for the Zoning Board and Zoning Inspector
   
31.02   Fuel allocation for Zoning Code Official
Village Clerk
   
31.15   Appointment; Term; Qualifications
   
31.16   Bond
   
31.17   Compensation and benefits; duties
   
31.18   Board meetings
   
31.19   Working hours
   
31.20   Vacation time and sick leave; Clerk pro tem appointment
Village Treasurer
   
31.35   Appointment; term; qualifications
   
31.36   Bond
   
31.37   Hours and duties
   
31.38   Compensation
Planning Commission
   
31.50   Created; composition; appointment
   
31.51   Terms of office; vacancies
   
31.52   Compensation; expenses
   
31.53   Organization and rules
   
31.54   Meetings and hearings
   
31.55   Powers and duties
   
31.56   Recommendations to Board of Trustees
   
31.57   Joint meetings
   
Appendix A:   FOIA Request
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 RATE OF COMPENSATION FOR THE ZONING BOARD AND ZONING INSPECTOR.
   The annual compensation to be paid to the Zoning Board and Zoning Inspector
shall be determined during the first quarter of each fiscal year by the Board
of Trustees of the village at a regular or special meeting by motion duly made,
seconded, and adopted by majority vote of the Board of Trustees. In the event
the Board declines to make any changes to the annual compensation, the current
rate then being paid shall continue, until further changes are made by the
Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 2018-05, passed 6-4-2018)
§ 31.02 FUEL ALLOCATION FOR ZONING CODE OFFICIAL.
   A.   The Village of Brighton appoints a Code Officer for the administration
and enforcement of its zoning regulations; and
   B.   The Village Zoning Code Officer uses his/her personal vehicle on behalf
of the Village of Brighton in the ordinary course of conducting business; and
   C.   The Village of Brighton maintains a fuel tank for use by the Public
Works Department; and
   D.   It has been determined by the President and Board of Trustees of the
Village that the Village shall provide one tank of gas to the Village Code
Officer, from its supply, maintained by the Public Works Department.
   E.   The President and Board of Trustees of the Village of Brighton, have
declared by Village ordinance that:
      1.   The Zoning Code Official will be entitled to one tank of gas per
month in his/her personal vehicle for use in conducting official zoning
business.
      2.   The fuel shall be dispensed from the fuel tank owned and operated by
the Village of Brighton, Public Works Department.
      3.   The Zoning Code Official shall record the date, fuel, pump reading,
vehicle, mileage, and hours spent on behalf of the Village regarding each
months tank fueling, and report the information to the Public Works Department.
      4.   It will be the responsibility of the Public Works Department to
submit this information to the Village Clerk for recordkeeping.
(Ord. 2024-08, passed 8-5-2024)
VILLAGE CLERK
§ 31.15 APPOINTMENT; TERM; QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Village Clerk shall be appointed by the Mayor, with approval of the
Village Board of Trustees. The appointment of the Village Clerk shall coincide
with appointment of committees, and other Village of Brighton personnel. The
appointment of the Village Clerk shall commence at the start of each fiscal
year.
(Prior Code, § 1-6A-1) (Ord. 2024-17, 11-4-2024; Ord. 2025-06, 5-5-2025)
§ 31.16 BOND.
   Before entering upon the duties of such office, the Village Clerk shall
execute a bond in such amount and with such sureties as may be required by the
Village Board of Trustees, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the
duties of such office. The bond of the Village Clerk shall be filed with the
Village Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 1-6A-2)
§ 31.17 COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS; DUTIES.
   All compensation set forth herein shall become effective at the first
meeting after the April 2021 municipal election.
   (A)   The salary for said Clerk for the administrative and Police Department
duties performed on behalf of the village shall be $36,000 per year, with
payments to be made on a semimonthly basis.
   (B)   The administrative duties of the Clerk shall generally include:
      (1)   Spending a minimum of seven hours per day, Monday through Friday of
each week, at the Village Municipal Building;
      (2)   Attend all regular and special meetings of the Village Board of
Trustees;
      (3)   Perform duties on behalf of the Water and Sewer Department, when
needed; and
      (4)   All statutory, regular, and routine duties normally expected and
required of a Village Clerk.
   (C)   The Police Department duties of the Clerk shall generally include:
      (1)   Clerical work; and
      (2)   Dispatching on behalf of the Village Police Department.
   (D)   (1)   The Village Clerk, in the performance of administrative and
Police Department duties set out herein, shall be entitled to fringe benefits
as in effect for all other employees of the village at the same payroll
deductible contribution rates as established for all the other non-union
employees.
      (2)   The village retains the right to change health insurance programs,
insurance carriers, level of benefits, and amounts of employee payroll deducted
contributions at any time and for any reason. Said benefits presently include
health insurance and IMRF.
   (E)   For the performance of regular and routine Clerk duties and clerical
and dispatching on behalf of the Police Department, the Village Clerk shall be
entitled to a salary increase of 3% annually during the Clerk’s term of office.
(Prior Code, § 1-6A-7) (Ord. 730, passed 10-4-2012; Ord. 2020-04, passed 10-5-
2020)
§ 31.18 BOARD MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall attend all regular and special meetings of the
Village Board of Trustees. The Village Clerk shall also perform duties on
behalf of the Water and Sewer Department of the village, when needed.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall also carry out and perform all other duties
normally expected and required to be performed by a Village Clerk for the
compensation hereinafter specified.
(Prior Code, § 1-6A-4) (Ord. 621, passed 5-24-2004)
§ 31.19 WORKING HOURS.
   The Mayor and Village Board of Trustees shall, by resolution, from time to
time, set the working hours of the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-6A-5) (Ord. 581, passed 10-23-2000)
§ 31.20 VACATION TIME AND SICK LEAVE; CLERK PRO TEM APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   Vacation; sick leave. The Village Clerk shall be entitled to vacation
time and sick leave as established by Board policy for all other village
employees from time to time. The Village Clerk shall notify the Mayor of any
illness, and the Mayor shall maintain appropriate records of all sick leave
used by the Village Clerk.
   (B)   Clerk pro tem.
      (1)   The Mayor, together with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees, shall appoint a person to act as Clerk pro tem in the absence of the
Clerk, while said Clerk is on vacation or during periods of illness.
      (2)   In case of emergency, the Mayor shall have the authority to appoint
a Clerk on a temporary basis, until the next meeting of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-6A-6) (Ord. 581, passed 10-23-2000)
VILLAGE TREASURER
§ 31.35 APPOINTMENT; TERM; QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Village Treasurer shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of the Village Board of Trustees. The Village Treasurer shall serve at
the pleasure of the Mayor and Board of Trustees, and until his or her successor
is appointed and qualified, as provided by 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-6.
(Prior Code, § 1-6B-1)
31.36 BOND.
   Before entering upon the duties of such office, the Village Treasurer shall
execute a bond in an amount of money that is not less than three times the
latest federal census population or any subsequent census figure used for motor
fuel tax purposes, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of
such office. Said bond shall be filed with the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1-6B-2)
§ 31.37 HOURS AND DUTIES.
   The Mayor and Board of Trustees may, from time to time, establish, by
resolution, office hours and duties of the Village Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 1-6B-3) (Ord. 530, passed 7-6-1993)
§ 31.38 COMPENSATION.
   The compensation of the Village Treasurer shall be as established from time
to time by resolution passed by the Board of Trustees and on file in the office
of the Village Clerk. The Village Treasurer shall not be entitled to any
benefits, such as health insurance, nor participation in the state’s Municipal
Retirement Fund, as offered to other employees of the village. Any such
benefits granted to the Treasurer shall be by vote of the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-6B-4) (Ord. 2019-10, passed 9-3-2019)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 31.50 CREATED; COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created a Planning Commission for the village, which shall
consist of a Chairperson and six other members. The Mayor shall be an ex
officio member of the Planning Commission. The seven members shall be appointed
by the Mayor with the consent of the majority of the elected members of the
Village Board of Trustees. Members of the Planning Commission shall reside
within the corporate limits of the village or within territory contiguous to
the village and not more than one and one-half miles beyond the corporate
limits of the village and not included within any other municipality. Members
of the Planning Commission, Zoning Board of Appeals, or Building Board of
Appeals shall not preclude membership on any of the other above-referenced
commissions or boards.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-1) (Ord. 737, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 31.51 TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   (A)   The Mayor’s term as ex officio member of the Planning Commission shall
be concurrent with his or her term of office as Mayor. The members of the
Planning Commission shall serve as follows: for the initial appointments, one
for one year; one for two years; one for three years; one for four years; one
for five years; one for six years; and one for seven years. Successors to each
member so appointed shall serve for a term of five years.
   (B)   The original appointment shall designate the term of office of each
person so appointed. The terms of all officers expire on the first Monday in
May in the last year of their respective terms, regardless of the actual date
of appointment, but the member whose term is expiring shall continue to hold
his or her office until his or her successor is appointed as provided for
herein. Vacancies shall only be filled by appointments for unexpired terms
only.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-2) (Ord. 737, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 31.52 COMPENSATION; EXPENSES.
   (A)   Compensation. All members of the Planning Commission shall serve
without compensation; except, that if the Board of Trustees deems it advisable,
the members of the Planning Commission may receive such compensation as may be
fixed from time to time by said Board and provided for in the appropriation
ordinance.
   (B)   Expenses. All expenses incurred by the Planning Commission shall be
provided for by annual appropriation from the village funds at the discretion
of the Village Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-3) (Ord. 737, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 31.53 ORGANIZATION AND RULES.
   (A)   Immediately following their appointment, the members of the Planning
Commission shall meet, organize, elect a Chairperson, Vice Chairperson, and a
secretary, and such other officers as they may deem necessary, and adopt and
later change or alter rules and regulations, organization, and procedures
consistent with the provisions of this subchapter and state laws.
   (B)   The Commission shall keep written records of its proceedings, which
shall be open at all times to public inspection, and shall also file an annual
report with the Mayor and Board of Trustees, setting forth its transactions and
recommendations.
   (C)   The rules and regulations of the Planning Commission shall be filed in
the office of the Village Clerk and may be amended at any meeting. The rules
are effective upon filing in the office of the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-4) (Ord. 737, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 31.54 MEETINGS AND HEARINGS.
   The Planning Commission may provide for regular and special meetings as it
shall deem necessary. Special meetings may be held on call of the Chairperson
or some member of the Planning Commission acting in his or her stead. The
Chairperson or some member of the Planning Commission acting in his or her
stead shall also be responsible for calling any public hearings required to be
held before the Planning Commission, and shall call any such public hearing
within the time frames required by applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-5) (Ord. 737, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 31.55 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Planning Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To prepare and recommend to the Board of Trustees a comprehensive plan
of public improvements looking to the present and future improvements of the
village. Such plan, after adoption by the Board of Trustees, shall be known as
the “Comprehensive Plan for the Village of Brighton.” Such plan shall include
reasonable requirements in reference to streets, alleys, and public grounds
within the corporate limits and in contiguous territory outside of and distant
not more than one and one-half miles from such limits and not included in any
municipality. Such requirements shall be effective whenever such lands shall be
subdivided after adoption of such plan;
   (B)   To recommend from time to time changes in any comprehensive plan
adopted by the Board of Trustees;
   (C)   To prepare and recommend to the Board of Trustees from time to time
plans and specific improvements in pursuance of such comprehensive plan;
   (D)   To give aid to the officials of the village charged with the direction
of improvements embraced within the comprehensive plan and to further the
making of such comprehensive plan;
   (E)   To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its
activities for the general purposes of public understanding;
   (F)   To hold public hearings on applications for amendments to the zoning
regulations. The Commission shall not have the authority to make changes or
amendments to the zoning regulations; it shall act in a purely advisory manner
to the Village Board, making its recommendations in all cases referred to it
and transmitting them to the Board for final action; and
   (G)   To exercise such other powers as may be provided by statute or
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-6) (Ord. 737, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 31.56 RECOMMENDATIONS TO BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   The Village Board of Trustees shall take no action authorizing or
approving the acquisition, construction, or alteration of any street, park,
public way, ground, space of public building or structure, map, plat, or replat
of land lying within the corporate limits of the village or within contiguous
territory one and one-half miles from the corporate limits, or changing any
fire, building, or use zones, or accepting the dedication of any public streets
or grounds, until such contemplated action shall have first been submitted to
the Planning Commission for its recommendation.
   (B)   If the Planning Commission shall fail to submit its recommendation to
the Village Board of Trustees within 21 days of the last Planning Commission
meeting at which the matter in question was considered, the Village Board of
Trustees may proceed without the same.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-7) (Ord. 737, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 31.57 JOINT MEETINGS.
   In addition to those powers previously granted, the Building Board of
Appeals, the Zoning Board of Appeals, and the Planning Commission are empowered
to hold joint meetings where it is deemed appropriate to do so by the chairs of
said boards and commissions.
(Prior Code, § 2-2-8) (Ord. 737, passed 8-5-2013)
APPENDIX A: FOIA REQUEST
Date of Request ______________________________   Date Received
_______________________________________
Name & Address of
Requestor___________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________________
Preferred way to contact requestor?
Telephone #______________________________________   Email address
___________________________________
Is this request for a commercial purpose? ______Yes   ______ No
(It is a violation of the Freedom of Information Act for a person to knowingly
obtain a public record for commercial purpose without disclosing that it is for
a commercial purpose if requested to do so by the public body. 5ILCS 140.3.1
(c)).
Records Requested: Provide as much specific detail as possible so the public
body can identify the information that you are seeking.
____________________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________________
Do you wish to: (Please check one)
Inspect the documents             Have copies made          Electronic copies
through email
_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
*The Village of Brighton will respond to the above request within five (5)
business days from the date of receipt unless one or more of the reasons for an
extension of time provided for in the Freedom of Information Act are invoked by
the Village. Commercial requests will take more than 5 days and you will be
notified as to the estimated time.
**Fees: 8 1/2 x 11 -First 50 pages free; $.15 thereafter; $.15 for any/all
color copies
*** Large size prints, maps or blueprints will be the amount charged by a third
party copy company
The Village of Brighton provides access to public records as required by the
Illinois Freedom of Information Act, 5 ILCS140/1 et seq., as amended. The
Illinois FOIA is the principal Illinois law governing access to public records.
The Act is based on the principle that people should be able to access public
records and information about the workings of government.
Submit a FOIA request to:
   For general records requests:               For police related requests:
   Tamara Jenkins                     Sgt. Dustin Ford
   Village Clerk/FOIA Officer                  Village of Brighton Police Dept.
   206 S Main St, PO Box 458               206 S Main St, PO Box 458
   Brighton, IL62012                     Brighton, IL 62012
   618-372-8860                     618-372-8112
RECORDS MAINTAINED BY THE VILLAGE OF BRIGHTON
This list is not exhaustive and is merely for reference or descriptive
purposes. Per the Illinois Freedom of Information Act, various records or
portions of records may be exempt from inspection and copying. Depending on the
type of request, copies are available on paper or electronic media. Many of
these records are posted on the Village website at www.brightonil.com.
   Agendas*               Ordinances*
   Agreements               Personnel Files
   Bids                  Plans/Exhibits/Plats
   Building/Zoning Permits         Police Reports
   Business Licenses            Public Hearing Files
   Code Violations            Public Hearing Notices
   Contracts               Raffle Licenses
   Correspondence            Resolutions*
   Easements               Solicitation Permits
   Election Records            Treasurer's Reports
   FOIA Requests            Village Audits
   Hearing Files               Village Budgets*
   Inspection Records            Village Code Book*
   Invoices               Warrants
   Maps                  Water Quality Reports
   Minutes*
*Records available immediately upon request.
CHAPTER 32: PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Emergency Services and Disaster Agency
   
32.01   Establishment
   
32.02   Composition
   
32.03   Functions
   
32.04   Coordinator
   
32.05   Oath
   
32.06   Office
   
32.07   Chain of command
   
32.08   Emergency preparedness plan
   
32.09   Emergency action
   
32.10   Local disaster emergencies
   
32.11   Mobile support team
   
32.12   Mutual aid agreements
   
32.13   Purchases and expenditures
   
32.14   Reimbursement by state
   
32.15   Appropriation; levy of taxes
   
32.16   Public shelter managers
Police Department
   
32.30   Department rules and regulations
   
32.31   Chief of Police
   
32.32   Police uniform allowance
   
32.33   Part-time police
Civil Defense and Special Police
   
32.45   Appointment; investigation; term
   
32.46   Training course
   
32.47   Separate from Police Department
   
32.48   Powers and duties
   
32.49   Required hours of service
   
32.50   Compensation
   
32.51   Filling vacancies
   
32.52   Carrying firearms restricted
 
   
32.99   Penalty
EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created the Village ESDA to prevent, minimize, repair, and
alleviate injury or damage caused by enemy attack, sabotage, or other hostile
action, or from natural or human-made disaster, in accordance with the State
Emergency Management Agency Act, being 20 ILCS 3305.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-1) (Ord. 427, passed 6-7-1982)
§ 32.02 COMPOSITION.
   This ESDA shall consist of the Coordinator and such additional members as
may be selected by the Coordinator.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-2) (Ord. 427, passed 6-7-1982)
§ 32.03 FUNCTIONS.
   The ESDA shall perform such ESDA functions within the village as shall be
prescribed in and by the state EMA plan and program prepared by the Governor,
and such orders, rules, and regulations as may be promulgated by the Governor
and, in addition, shall perform such duties outside the corporate limits as may
be requested pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with any other political
subdivision, municipality, or quasi-municipality entered into as provided by
the State EMA Act, being 20 ILCS 3305.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-3) (Ord. 427, passed 6-7-1982)
§ 32.04 COORDINATOR.
   (A)   Appointment. The Coordinator of the Village ESDA shall be appointed by
the Mayor with confirmation of the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Qualifications. The Coordinator shall be versed and qualified by
reason of experience or other proper training, and shall participate in such
other training programs that may be necessary.
   (C)   Term. His or her term of office shall be determined at the discretion
of the Village Board of Trustees and until his or her successor is appointed,
confirmed, and qualified.
   (D)   He or she shall receive a salary, to be determined at the discretion
of the Village Board of Trustees, and such expenses that are compatible with
his or her duties and approved by the Board of Trustees.
   (E)   Responsibility. The Coordinator shall have direct responsibility for
the organization, administration, training, and operation of the ESDA, subject
to the direction and control of the Mayor.
   (F)   Mayor to act in absence of Coordinator. In the event of the absence,
resignation, death, or inability to serve as Coordinator, the Mayor or any
person designated by him or her shall be and act as Coordinator until a new
appointment is made as provided in this subchapter.
   (G)   Removal from office; hearing. The Coordinator of the ESDA may be
removed from office by the Village Board of Trustees for incompetence, neglect
of duty, or malfeasance in office. In any proceeding to remove the Coordinator
from office, a petition shall be filed with the Village Board of Trustees,
naming such officer as defendant and setting forth the particular facts upon
which the request for removal is based. The Board of Trustees shall set the
matter for hearing not earlier than five days after service upon the defendant,
which service shall be in accord with that as in suits in chancery. The Board
of Trustees shall thereupon proceed to a determination of the charges against
the defendant and shall enter an order, either dismissing the charges or
removing him or her from office.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-4) (Ord. 427, passed 6-7-1982)
§ 32.05 OATH.
   Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the Village ESDA
organization shall, before entering upon his or her duties, subscribe the
following oath, which shall be filed with the Coordinator:
 
I,                     , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and defend and bear
true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of
Illinois, and the territory, institutions, and facilities thereof, both public and private,
against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any mental
reservation or purpose of evasion, and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties upon
which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I,
nor have I ever been a member of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow
of the government of the United States or of this State by force or violence, and that during such
time as I am affiliated with the Brighton ESDA organization, I will not advocate nor become a
member of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of
the United States or of this State by force or violence.
 
(Prior Code, § 2-1-5) (Ord. 427, passed 6-7-1982)
§ 32.06 OFFICE.
   The Mayor is authorized to designate space in a village building, or
elsewhere, as may be provided for by the village.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-6) (Ord. 427, passed 6-7-1982)
§ 32.07 CHAIN OF COMMAND.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Coordinator to establish a working
chain of command within the ESDA organization to ensure efficiency during times
of disaster. Further, the Coordinator will distribute this chain of command to
all appropriate officials and department heads.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-7) (Ord. 427, passed 6-7-1982)
§ 32.08 EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS PLAN.
   (A)   Establish plan. The Coordinator has the responsibility of establishing
an emergency preparedness plan. The EPP shall outline the responsibilities of
various departments of the village and their assignments to the ESDA; and this
plan shall provide for all types of disaster that may occur in the village, to
include, but not limited to, enemy attack, natural disasters such as tornadoes,
floods, train wrecks, explosions, and major fires.
   (B)   Cooperation of village officials. Each village department head and
office holder has the responsibility to cooperate in formulating a plan
covering his or her responsibilities when an emergency occurs in any type of
disaster; further, he or she should supply the Coordinator with a complete
resource list of all equipment and personnel that may be available during an
emergency.
   (C)   Renewal of plan annually. The plan will be renewed annually by the
Coordinator and the respective office holders and department heads.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-8) (Ord. 427, passed 6-7-1982)
§ 32.09 EMERGENCY ACTION.
   If the Governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the state
of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile action, or
from human-made or natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the village ESDA
to cooperate fully with the County and State EMA and with the Governor in the
exercise of emergency powers as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-9) (Ord. 427, passed 6-7-1982)
§ 32.10 LOCAL DISASTER EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   Emergency declaration. A local disaster emergency may be declared by
the Mayor. It shall not be continued or renewed for a period in excess of seven
days except by or with the consent of the Board of Trustees. Any order or
proclamation declaring, continuing, or terminating a local disaster shall be
given prompt and general publicity and shall be filed promptly with the Village
Clerk.
   (B)   Effect of declaration. The effect of a declaration of a local disaster
emergency is to activate the response and recovery aspects of any and all
applicable local or interjurisdictional disaster emergency plans and to
authorize the furnishing of aid and assistance thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-10) (Ord. 427, passed 6-7-1982)
§ 32.11 MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM.
   (A)   Designation. All or any members of the village organization may be
designated as members of a mobile support team created by the Director of the
State EPA as provided by law.
   (B)   Leader. The leader of such mobile support team shall be designated by
the Coordinator of the Village ESDA organization.
   (C)   Compensation.
      (1)   Any member of a mobile support team who is a village employee or
officer, while serving on call to duty by the Governor or the State Director,
shall receive the compensation and have the powers, duties, rights, and
immunities incident to such employment or office.
      (2)   Any such member who is not a paid officer or employee of the
village, while so serving, shall receive from the state reasonable compensation
as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-11) (Ord. 427, passed 6-27-1982)
§ 32.12 MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS.
   The Coordinator may enter into agreements with other public agencies within
his or her immediate vicinity and other municipal corporations or bodies
politic within this state for reciprocal disaster assistance in case of
disaster too great to be dealt with unassisted. Such agreements are effective
only after the consent of the Village Board of Trustees and after properly
filed with an approval in writing by the State Director.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-12) (Ord. 427, passed 6-7-1982)
§ 32.13 PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   The Village Board of Trustees may, on recommendation of the Village
Coordinator of ESDA, authorize any purchases or contracts necessary to place
the village in a position to combat effectively any disaster resulting from the
explosion of any nuclear or other bomb or missile, and to protect the public
health and safety, protect property, and provide emergency assistance to
victims in the case of such disaster, or from human-made or natural disasters.
   (B)   In the event of enemy-caused or other disasters, the Village
Coordinator of ESDA is authorized, on behalf of the village, to procure such
services, supplies, equipment, or material as may be necessary for such
purposes, in view of the exigency without regard to the statutory procedures or
formalities normally prescribed by law pertaining to village contracts or
obligations, as authorized by the State EMA Act, being 20 ILCS 3305; provided,
that if the Village Board of Trustees meets at such time, the Coordinator shall
act subject to the directions and restrictions imposed by that body.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-13) (Ord. 427, passed 6-7-1982)
§ 32.14 REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE.
   The Village Treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund any
reimbursement by the state to the village for expenses incident to training
members of the ESDA prescribed by the State Director of EMA, compensation for
services and expenses of members of a mobile support team while serving outside
the village in response to a call by the Governor or State Director of EMA, as
provided by law, and any other reimbursement made by the state incident to ESDA
activities as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-14) (Ord. 427, passed 6-7-1982)
§ 32.15 APPROPRIATION; LEVY OF TAXES.
   The Village Board of Trustees may make an appropriation for ESDA purposes in
the manner provided by law, and may levy in addition, for ESDA purposes only, a
tax not to exceed $0.05 per $100 of the assessed value of all taxable property
in addition to all other taxes, as provided by the State EMA Act; however, that
amount collectable under such levy shall in no event exceed $0.25 per capita.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-15) (Ord. 427, passed 6-7-1982)
Statutory reference:
   State EMA Act, see 20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.
§ 32.16 PUBLIC SHELTER MANAGERS.
   (A)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   National emergency. In case of national emergency, public shelter
managers duly appointed by the ESDA Coordinator shall open public shelters,
take charge of all stocks of food, water, and other supplies stored in the
shelter, admit the public according to the village’s shelter use plan, and take
whatever control measures are necessary for the protection and safety of the
occupants.
      (2)   Local disaster. In case of local disaster, the shelter manager
shall open public shelters for the safety and protection of the community.
   (B)   Refusal to follow orders of shelter manager. Shelter managers are
authorized to use reasonable restraint against those who refuse to cooperate
with the routine of shelter living under emergency conditions. Refusal to carry
out the orders of the shelter manager and his or her appointed staff shall be
deemed an offense.
(Prior Code, § 2-1-16) (Ord. 427, passed 6-7-1982) Penalty, see §
32.99
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.30 DEPARTMENT RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Rules and regulations of the Police Department attached to the ordinance
codified herein, and incorporated herein by reference, are hereby adopted by
the Village Board of Trustees and shall hereinafter have the force of law.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-1) (Ord. 426, passed 5-3-1982)
§ 32.31 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   Appointment and removal.
      (1)   The Chief of Police shall be qualified to serve as a police officer
in the state and shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and consent
of the Village Board of Trustees.
      (2)   Removal of the Chief of Police shall be made pursuant to the
provisions of 65 ILCS 5/3.1- 35-10.
   (B)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Chief of Police shall serve in the capacity of a police officer
and administrator of the Police Department.
      (2)   The Chief shall present all recommendations and information on
behalf of the Police Department to the public safety committee and/or Village
Board of Trustees in the areas of expenditures of funds, establishment of
Police Department policies, or any other matters pertaining to the operation of
the Police Department.
      (3)   The Chief shall also be responsible for the formulation of work
schedules and the deployment of manpower and equipment necessary for the
efficient and economic operation of the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-2) (Ord. 487, passed 11-2-1987)
§ 32.32 POLICE UNIFORM ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   Each full-time police officer shall be entitled to a uniform allowance
of $450 payable annually during the fiscal year of July 1 through June 30 of
each year. Each part-time police officer shall be entitled to $0.25 for each
hour worked during the previous fiscal year as a uniform allowance.
   (B)   Each full-time and part-time police officer of the village shall be
required to complete a requisition form for items to be purchased, and submit
the form to the Village Clerk, who shall, in turn, deliver the requisition form
to the chairperson of the police committee.
   (C)   The police committee shall act upon the requisition of the police
officer at its next regularly scheduled meeting or special meeting, whichever
occurs first, and shall approve or disapprove each item listed in the
requisition, and return the form to the Village Clerk. In the event of an
emergency, the chairperson of the police committee shall have the authority to
act upon the requisition.
   (D)   The Village Clerk shall thereafter notify the police officer of the
action of the police committee and advise said officer of the items approved
for purchase.
   (E)   Any hardware, such as guns, badges, billy clubs, or the like,
purchased by a police officer with village funds, shall remain the property of
the village, and any such police officer who may resign from time to time from
the village police force shall, within 48 hours of termination of employment
with the village, turn in all such items to the chairperson of the police
committee or the Mayor.
   (F)   Any police officer may return all items of clothing, which shall
include, but are not necessarily limited to, shoes, boots, belts, shirts,
trousers, jackets, neckties, and the like, to the village upon termination of
employment with the village; or the officer may retain all such items by paying
to the village a prorated amount which shall be determined by the fractional
proportion of the termination date of employment to the balance of the fiscal
year.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-3) (Ord. 607, passed 1-6-2003)
§ 32.33 PART-TIME POLICE.
   (A)   Employment. The village may employ part-time police officers from time
to time as it deems necessary.
   (B)   Duties.
      (1)   A part-time police officer shall have all the responsibilities of a
full-time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the general
orders of the Village Police Department, but the number of hours a part-time
officer may work within a calendar year is restricted.
      (2)   Part-time police officers shall not be assigned to supervise or
direct full-time police officers. Part-time police officers shall be trained in
accordance with the State Police Training Act, being 50 ILCS 705, and the rules
and requirements of the ILETSB.
   (C)   Hiring standards. Any person employed as a part-time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
and physically and mentally able to perform assigned duties;
      (2)   Be at least 21 years of age;
      (3)   Pass a medical examination;
      (4)   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate;
      (5)   Possess a valid state driver’s license;
      (6)   Possess no prior felony convictions; and
      (7)   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   (D)   Discipline. Part-time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the Chief of Police of the village. Part-time police officers
serve at the discretion of the village authorities, shall not have any property
rights in said employment, and may be removed by the village authorities at any
time. Part-time police officers shall comply with all applicable rules and
general orders issued by the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 5-1-4) (Ord. 722, passed 5-7-2012)
CIVIL DEFENSE AND SPECIAL POLICE
§ 32.45 APPOINTMENT; INVESTIGATION; TERM.
   (A)   Appointment. The Mayor shall, with the advice and consent of the Board
of Trustees, appoint special police officers as employees of the village; said
number of special police not to exceed 15 in number.
   (B)   Background check. Prior to appointment, all proposed special police
officers shall be fingerprinted, and their fingerprints shall be checked with
the Federal Bureau of Investigation, Washington, D.C., for any possible
criminal record. No person shall be appointed as a special police officer if he
or she has been convicted of a felony or other crime involving moral turpitude.
   (C)   Term. The appointment of any special police officers shall terminate
at the discretion of the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Village
Board.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-1) (Ord. 513, passed 6-3-1991)
§ 32.46 TRAINING COURSE.
   Special police officers, prior to entering upon any of their duties, shall
take and complete a 40-hour course of training in the use of weapons and other
police procedures as directed by the Village Chief of Police. All such training
shall be completed by each special police officer within six months from the
date of employment. No special police officers shall be permitted to carry a
weapon until the mandatory training has been completed. Upon completion of the
course of training, the applicant shall take such written and oral tests and
examination as the Village Chief of Police prescribes. The Chief shall file a
certificate attesting to the special police officer’s satisfactory completion
of said tests with the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-2) (Ord. 442, passed 8-1-1983)
§ 32.47 SEPARATE FROM POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Such special police officers shall not be members of the regular
Police Department of the village. Identification symbols worn by such special
police officers shall be different and distinct from those used by the regular
Police Department, and shall be subject to approval by the public safety
committee.
   (B)   Special police officers shall, at all times during the performance of
their duties, be subject to the direction and control of the Chief of Police of
the village or senior full-time officer on duty.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-3) (Ord. 442, passed 8-1-1983)
§ 32.48 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Special police officers shall have the following powers and duties, when
properly assigned and on duty:
   (A)   To aid or direct traffic in the village;
   (B)   To aid in the control of natural or human-made disasters;
   (C)   To aid in case of civil disorder;
   (D)   To perform normal and regular police duties when assigned by the Chief
of Police on occasions when it is impractical for members of the regular Police
Department to perform normal and regular police duties;
   (E)   To arrest or cause to be arrested, with or without process, all
persons who break the peace, or are found violating any village ordinance or
any criminal law of the state;
   (F)   To commit arrested persons for examination;
   (G)   If necessary, to detain arrested persons in custody overnight or on
Sunday in any safe place, or until they can be brought before the proper
magistrate;
   (H)   To exercise all other powers as conservators of the peace that the
corporate authorities may prescribe; and
   (I)   To serve and execute all warrants for the violation of village
ordinances, or the state criminal law, and for this purpose, to have all common
law and statutory powers of sheriffs.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-4) (Ord. 442, passed 8-1-1983)
§ 32.49 REQUIRED HOURS OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Monthly requirement. All persons assuming the responsibilities and
duties of a special police officer in the village under the provisions of this
subchapter shall be required to perform special police duties for a minimum of
ten hours per month, said duties to be assigned by the Chief of Police to each
special police officer monthly.
   (B)   Failure to perform; dismissal. Failure to perform such duties for a
minimum of ten hours per month for three successive months shall be grounds for
dismissal as a special police officer for the village.
   (C)   Fulfilling deficiency. Months in which a special police officer does
not have a minimum of ten hours of duties as a special police officer may
fulfill the deficiency in the following month.
   (D)   Compliance with rules and regulations. Each special police officer
shall be required to observe and be regulated by all the rules and regulations
of the regular police force of the village, with the exception that any special
police officer shall not be required to be a resident of the village.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-5) (Ord. 513, passed 6-3-1991)
§ 32.50 COMPENSATION.
   Special police officers shall receive no individual compensation.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-6) (Ord. 442, passed 8-1-1983)
§ 32.51 FILLING VACANCIES.
   Vacancies in the special police force shall be filled as soon as possible,
pursuant to the provisions of §
32.45.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-7) (Ord. 442, passed 8-1-1983)
§ 32.52 CARRYING FIREARMS RESTRICTED.
   Special police officers shall not carry firearms except with the permission
of the Chief of Police, and then only in the performance of their duties.
(Prior Code, § 5-2-8) (Ord. 442, passed 8-1-1983)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Refusal to carry out the orders of the shelter manager and his or her
appointed staff pursuant to §
32.16 shall be deemed a misdemeanor punishable as provided in §
10.99(A).
(Prior Code, § 2-1-16) (Ord. 427, passed 6-7-1982)
CHAPTER 33: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
33.01   Holiday and time off benefits
   
33.02   Employee compensation policies
   
33.03   Social Security benefits
   
33.04   State Municipal Retirement Fund participation
   
33.05   Equal employment policy
   
33.06   Sexual harassment policy adopted by reference
§ 33.01 HOLIDAY AND TIME OFF BENEFITS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      FAMILY MEMBER. Includes an employee’s spouse; parents; grandparents;
adopted, natural, and stepchildren; brothers; sisters; grandchildren; parents-
in-law; or any relative or person living in the employee’s household for whom
the employee has custodial responsibility; or such person is financially and
emotionally dependent on the employee and the presence of the employee is
needed.
      INFANT. Anyone who is two years of age or younger.
      MEDICAL DOCUMENTATION. Written verification by a doctor, dentist, or
other professional medical practitioner licensed by a government body regarding
the physical or mental condition of an employee.
   (B)   Holidays.
      (1)   Holiday pay; adoption of schedule.
         (a)   Holiday pay.
            1.   Any full-time hourly rate employee required to work on a
holiday will be paid for their scheduled shift at regular pay plus eight hours
of holiday pay. Any full-time hourly rate employee that does not work on the
holiday shall be granted eight hours of holiday pay or eight hours of
compensation time for the holiday. In order to receive holiday pay, the
employee must work his or her scheduled shift before and after said holiday.
This provision does not apply to part-time employees of the village.
            2.   This division (B)(1)(a)2. shall apply to part-time police
officers only and does not apply to part-time employees of the village. Holiday
pay is to be paid at the rate of one and one-half times.
         (b)   Adoption of schedule. The Village Board hereby adopts the
following paid holiday schedule, which shall remain in full force and effect
until amended or changed by the Village Board:
            1.   New Year’s Day (January 1);
            2.   Martin Luther King Jr. Day (third Monday in January);
            3.   President’s Day (third Monday in February);
            4.   Spring Renewal Day (Friday before Easter);
            5.   Memorial Day (last Monday in May);
            6.   Juneteenth (June 19);
            7.   Independence Day (July 4);
            8.   Labor Day (first Monday in September);
            9.   Columbus Day (second Monday in October);
            10.   Veteran’s Day (November 11);
            11.   Half Day Thanksgiving Eve (half day Wednesday before
Thanksgiving);
            12.   Thanksgiving (fourth Thursday in November);
            13.   Day after Thanksgiving (Friday after Thanksgiving);
            14.   Christmas Eve (December 24);
            15.   Christmas Day (December 25); and
            16.   New Year’s Eve (December 31).
      (2)   Designation of duties. The department head shall have the right to
schedule duties for any full-time employee on a holiday to meet the operational
needs of the village.
   (C)   Grief time.
      (1)   Days granted. Upon the death of a family member, full-time
employees of the village will be granted up to three days of grief time for the
purpose of attending the funeral and tending to the affairs of the decedent,
with approval of the department head.
      (2)   Designation of duties. If such a death occurs during the employee’s
vacation time, grief time will be paid in lieu of the vacation time. Full-time
employees with at least six months of service are eligible for this benefit.
   (D)   Personal leave.
      (1)   Time allowed. Each full-lime employee, not operating under a union
contract, having completed at least six months of service to the Village, shall
be entitled to receive two days paid personal leave time on the first day of
each fiscal year.
      (2)   Scheduling with department head. Personal time shall be scheduled
with the department head in accordance with the operational needs of the
village, and any such time not used during the fiscal year shall be forfeited.
   (E)   Vacation time.
      (1)   Time allowed. The village will grant vacation time at the end of
each month to full- time employees according to the following schedule:
         (a)   After one year of service: ten days;
         (b)   After three years of service: 12 days;
         (c)   After five years of service: 15 days;
         (d)   After ten years of service: 17.5 days;
         (e)   After 15 years of service: 20 days;
         (f)   After 20 years of service: 22.5 days; and
         (g)   After 25 years of service: 25 days.
      (2)   Eligibility to receive credit. The vacation earning rate
established herein begins at the end of the month in which the employee’s
anniversary date falls; provided, the anniversary date is on or before the
tenth of the month, in which event, the vacation earning rate begins the
following month. To be eligible to receive credit for a month of service to the
village, an employee must be in pay status at least one-half the work days of
such month.
      (3)   Advance scheduling. Vacation time shall be scheduled in advance,
taking into consideration the operational needs of the village. Vacation time
must be taken within 12 months after the calendar year in which it was earned,
or it shall be forfeited.
      (4)   Vacation pay to terminated employees. Any terminated employee shall
be entitled to be paid for any accumulated vacation time. New employees are not
entitled to any vacation time until the completion of six months of service.
   (F)   Sick leave.
      (1)   Definition. SICK LEAVE is defined as any period of time during
which a full-time employee may, due to illness or injury, except job-related
injury, be excused from work without loss of normal pay. This provision applies
to elected or appointed or full-time persons. This provision does not apply to
time off for an employee to care for a sick family member or for attendance to
personal business. The Village Board may deny pay if sick leave is taken
outside of the limits of this division (F)(1).
      (2)   Time allowed; accrual. Two hours of sick time will be credited to
full-time employees at each pay period; provided, that the employee is in pay
status at least one-half of the work days of the pay period. Sick time may
accrue to a total of 480 hours.
      (3)   Incentive pay. An incentive of $50 will be paid at the end of the
fiscal year to each employee who has not taken any sick time during such fiscal
year, and such employee was on pay status for the full fiscal year.
      (4)   Medical documentation. Medical documentation and work release are
required for medical absences from work after three consecutive sick days have
been used. Medical documentation may be required by the department head for any
period of time, regardless of the number of sick days used. The Village Board
may require a physical examination of any employee by a physician of the
Board’s choice.
      (5)   Childbirth. The village will allow an absence of at least six weeks
for the birth or adoption of an infant, which may be used as sick time. Medical
documentation is not required for the first six weeks of the postdelivery
absence.
      (6)   Employment-related injury. Employees requiring off duty time due to
an employment-related illness or injury are subject to the Workers’
Compensation Act, being 80 ILCS 305, or other laws of the state and will
receive benefits as provided by said laws, in lieu of the benefits granted in
this section.
      (7)   Health insurance reimbursement.
         (a)   The health insurance coverage provided by the village for its
employees shall be purchased through Central Management Services, local
government health plan benefits, as provided by the state.
         (b)   Healthcare insurance is established on an annual basis,
effective on July 1, and expiring on June 30 following thereafter.
         (c)   The health insurance plan of the village provides for a $1,500
deductible to be paid by the employee.
         (d)   The village will reimburse deductible expenses incurred by an
employee that exceed $500 per policy year, with a maximum payout of $1,000 by
the village. Said employee shall pay the first $500 of deductible medical
expenses per plan year.
         (e)   The employee may submit receipts and other credible evidence of
payment of deductible expenses for reimbursement on a quarterly basis. Said
expenses shall be submitted to the Village Clerk.
         (f)   There shall be no deductible carryover for any year in which an
employee does not use the full $1,000 deductible reimbursement.
         (g)   The village will pay the monthly premium for each employee as
established by Central Management Services for the local consumer driven health
plan. In the event an employee would like to upgrade his or her coverage, said
employee may do so by paying the difference between said monthly premium so
established, and the cost of the upgrade by payroll deduction.
         (h)   Any health insurance coverage for an employees’s spouse or
family policy shall be at the expense of the employee, by payroll deduction.
         (i)   Participation in the village employee’s healthcare plan,
including all the provisions herein, shall cease as of the last day of the
month following the date of termination of any employee. The health
reimbursement arrangement plan shall not apply to any employee that is covered
under the village’s health insurance through the provisions of COBRA.
   (G)   Jury duty. Any full-time employee who is on active jury duty will be
paid the difference between such employee’s regular salary and the compensation
received for jury duty for the first two weeks of jury duty. The Village Board
of Trustees may, at its discretion, continue this benefit if jury duty extends
for more than a two-week period. Employees who are called for jury duty shall
notify their department head immediately.
   (H)   Applicable to full-time employees. This section pertains only to full-
time employees who work a minimum of 35 paid hours each week of the fiscal year
for the village. No provisions of this section shall be interpreted to apply to
any part-time employee of the village working less than an average of 35 hours
per week during the fiscal year.
   (I)   Violators subject to disciplinary action. Any employee who violates
any of the provisions of this section shall be subject to disciplinary action,
including dismissal or suspension, as an employee of the village.
   (J)   Paid leave. The foregoing recitals of Ordinance 2023-12 shall be and
are hereby incorporated as findings of fact as if said recitals were fully set
forth herein. Pursuant to 820 ILCS 192/15(p), the village hereby adopts its
current paid leave policy for all village employees as set forth in this code
of ordinances, the Employee Handbook, annual salary ordinances, any collective
bargaining agreement to which the village is a party, and all other binding
legislative actions governing paid leave adopted by the Mayor and Board of
Trustees, as the same may be amended from time to time. However, in no event
shall the village, as an employer, provide less than one day of paid leave per
year to any village employee. The Village Clerk is directed by the corporate
authorities to publish this division (J) in pamphlet form. The ordinance
contained herein shall be in full force and effect after its passage and
publication in accordance with 65 ILCS 5/1-2-4.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-2) (Ord. 541, passed 12-5-1994; Ord. 556, passed 6-16-1997;
Ord. 759, passed 12-1- 2014; Ord. 799, passed 6-6-2016; Res. R2021-03, passed
9-7-2021; Ord. 2022-14, passed 11-7-2022; Ord. 2023-12, passed 12-4-2023; Res.
R1-2024, passed 6-3-2024; Ord. 2025-03, passed 4-7-2025)
§ 33.02 EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION POLICIES.
   (A)   Compensation.
      (1)   Employee salary schedule. The employee salary schedule is
established for the following classifications.
Level Description
Level Description
1     Librarian and custodial part-time
2     Maintenance and clerical part-time
3     Sworn and senior part-time
4     Hall janitorial
5     Clerical
6     Office manager
7     Maintenance
8     Police officer
9     Police sergeant
P1    Probationary Level 5, 6
P2    Probationary Level 7, 8
 
      (2)   Annual appropriation ordinance. The compensation of appointed
village officials and village employees shall be as established from time to
time by ordinance of the Board of Trustees, or as fixed in the annual
appropriation ordinance of the village.
   (B)   Longevity schedule. A longevity schedule for the full-time employees
of the village is established as follows.
      (1)   (a)   The base salary of a full-time employee who has completed
four years of service will be augmented by $0.40 per hour, which will establish
a new base salary for said employee.
         (b)   The base salary of said employee shall thereafter be augmented
at the rate of $0.15 per hour for each hour worked, as follows.
 
Term          Longevity Bonus
After 4 years Base salary plus $0.40 longevity bonus
After 5 years New base salary plus $0.15 longevity bonus New Base Salary
After 6 years New base salary plus $0.15 longevity bonus
After 7 years New base salary plus $0.15 longevity bonus
And so on ...
 
      (2)   Full-time and part-time police officers: Any hours over 84 hours
will be paid as overtime hours. The current base pay of full-time officers is
$25; therefore, the hourly salary is now $25 per hour.
   (C)   Education schedule. Considering the value of education and to
recognize its full-time employees who have furthered their education, the
village hereby establishes the following annual bonus for education:
      (1)   Associate’s degree: $250; and
      (2)   Bachelor’s degree: $500.
   (D)   Training bonus.
      (1)   (a)   A training bonus will be given at the end of the fiscal year
to full-time employees who have been certified or trained for 11 months during
the preceding year.
         (b)   Full-time employees who have been certified or trained for six
months during the preceding year will be eligible for one-half the established
bonus.
      (2)   Full-time employees who are trained at village expense and who are
eligible for a bonus will receive the bonus amount which is remaining after
subtracting the expense from the bonus amount. If the expense is more than the
bonus amount, the remaining unsatisfied expense will carry over into the bonus
amount in the next fiscal year.
 
Training or Certification              Amount
Certified breath analysis operator, or $250 each with a maximum of $500
juvenile officer, or DARE officer
EMT or first responder                 $100
EPA Class 2 or C                       $500
EPA Class 4 or D                       $250
 
      (3)   The maximum training bonus shall be $500 per year, per each full-
time employee.
      (4)   Levels five through nine for full-time employees are eligible for
longevity, education, and training incentives.
   (E)   Pay for call time is hereby established as follows: which requires the
officer to remain at his or her residence for immediate response to any call,
$5 per hour; and
   (F)   Overtime. Pay for overtime work is hereby established as follows:
      (1)   Emergency overtime: one and one-half times the employee’s usual
rate of pay;
      (2)   Nonemergency overtime, which may include, but not be limited to,
court appearances and snow removal: one and one-half comp time for each one
hour worked; and
      (3)   FULL-TIME OVERTIME WORK shall be defined as any hours worked in
excess of regular scheduled hours as defined by position. (See §
34.01.)
   (G)   Maintenance of schedule by Clerk. The Village Clerk shall maintain a
schedule listing all employees and such employee’s job description, level of
compensation, and eligibility for longevity and any bonus.
   (H)   Employee pay schedule. The village hereby establishes a pay schedule
for full-time employees that become part-time employees and part-time employees
of the village that become full-time employees, as follows:
      (1)   Full-time to part-time employees: such an employee shall be paid
the base rate pay of a part-time employee enhanced by the amount of raises that
said full-time employee may have earned prior to his or her transfer from full-
time to part-time employment; and
      (2)   Part-time to full-time employees: such an employee shall be paid
the base rate pay of a full-time employee enhanced by the amount of raises that
said part-time employee may have earned prior to his or her transfer from part-
time to full-time employment.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-3) (Ord. 540, passed 12-5-1994; Ord. 714, passed 5-2-2011;
Ord. 759, passed 12-1-2014; Ord. 2022-06, passed 6-6-2022; Ord. 2022-10, passed
9-12-2022; Ord. 2023-1, passed 1-9-2023)
§ 33.03 SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFITS.
   (A)   Policy and purpose. It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose
of the village to extend to the eligible employees thereof, effective as of
July 1, 1971, the benefits of the federal old age, survivors, and disability
insurance provisions of the Federal Social Security Act and amendments thereto.
In pursuance of said policy, and for that purpose, the Mayor shall take such
action as may be required by applicable state and federal laws or regulations.
   (B)   Agreement with state. The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to
execute an agreement with the Social Security unit of the state employees’
retirement system to secure coverage of eligible employees as provided in
division (A) above.
   (C)   Withholdings authorized. Withholdings from salaries or wages of
employees for the purpose provided in division (A) above are hereby authorized
to be made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by applicable
state and federal laws or regulations, and shall be paid to the state agency in
such amounts and at such times as are designated by state laws or regulations.
   (D)   Employer contributions and expenses. Employer contributions and
administrative expenses shall be paid to the state agency in accordance with
applicable state laws and regulations from amounts appropriated for such
purposes.
   (E)   Records maintained by Clerk. The Village Clerk shall maintain such
records and submit such reports as may be required by applicable state and
federal laws or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-4) (Ord. 344, passed 10-4-1971)
§ 33.04 STATE MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND PARTICIPATION.
   The village hereby elects to participate in the State Municipal Retirement
Fund, effective January 1, 1982.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-5) (Ord. 414A, passed 3-2-1981)
§ 33.05 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT POLICY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition applies
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MINORITY. Refers to Native Americans, Asians, Blacks, or Hispanics, or to
such protected classes as youth, elderly, women, or persons with disabilities.
   (B)   The village hereby declares to uphold, defend, enforce, and advocate
for all laws related to equal employment opportunity including, but not limited
to, the following:
      (1)   Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000d
et seq., which prohibits discrimination in the participation in or benefits of
programs or activities receiving federal financial assistance on the basis of
race, color, or national origin;
      (2)   Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2000e
et seq., which prohibits discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex,
or national origin in all employment practices, including hiring, firing,
promotions, compensation, and other terms, privileges, and conditions of
employment;
      (3)   Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, which prohibits
discrimination in federally assisted education programs;
      (4)   The Equal Pay Act of 1963, being 29 U.S.C. § 206(d), which covers
all employees who are covered by the Fair Labor Standards Act. The Act forbids
pay differentials on the basis of sex;
      (5)   The Age Discrimination Act of 1967, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 621 et seq.,
which prohibits discrimination because of age against anyone between the ages
of 40 and 65;
      (6)   Federal Executive Order 11246, which requires every contract with
federal financial assistance to contain a clause against discrimination because
of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin;
      (7)   Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and DOL implementing
regulations at 29 C.F.R. part 32, which prohibits any discrimination based on
disability;
      (8)   Section 167 of JTPA and U.S. DOL regulations at 29 C.F.R. parts 31
and 32, which provide that no person in the United States shall be excluded
from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to
discrimination on the basis of race, color, or national origin, under any
program or activity receiving federal financial assistance from the Department
of Labor;
      (9)   Illinois Constitution, Ch. 68, Article I, §§ 17 through 19, which
prohibits discrimination based on race, color, creed, national ancestry,
disability, and sex in the hiring and promotion practices of any employer; and
      (10)   The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, which prohibits any
discrimination against qualified individuals with disabilities on the basis of
their disability.
   (C)   The village will assure nondiscriminatory employment practices in
recruitment advertising, employment, placement, layoff or termination,
promotion, demotion, or transfer, rate of pay, or other forms of compensation
and use of facilities.
   (D)   (1)   The village will not contract with other agencies, banks,
businesses, vendors, and the like who practice or establish a pattern of
discrimination based on sex, color, race, religion, age, national origin,
political affiliation, or belief.
      (2)   The village will incorporate into any contract for construction
work, or modification thereof, subject to the relevant rules, regulations, and
orders of the Secretary of Labor, or of any prior authority that remain in
effect, which is paid for in whole or in part with the aid of such financial
assistance, the following “equal opportunity clause.”
         (a)   The contractor will not discriminate against any employee or
applicant for employment because of race, color, religion, sex, disability, or
national origin. The contractor will take affirmative action to ensure that
applicants are employed, and the employees are treated during employment,
without regard to their race, color, religion, sex, national origin, or
disability. Such action shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
employment, upgrading, demotion, or transfer; recruitment or recruitment
advertising; layoff or termination; rates of pay or other forms of
compensation; and selection for training, including apprenticeship. The
contractor agrees to post in conspicuous places, available to employees and
applicants for employment, notices setting forth the provisions of this
nondiscrimination clause.
         (b)   The contractor will, in all solicitations or advertisement for
employees placed by or on behalf of the contractor, state that all qualified
applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race,
color, religion, sex, national origin, or disability.
         (c)   In the event of the contractor’s noncompliance with the equal
opportunity clause or with any of the said rules, regulations, and orders, the
contract may be canceled, terminated, or suspended in whole or in part, and the
contractor may be declared ineligible for further government contracts or
federally assisted construction contracts.
         (d)   The contractor will include the provisions of this equal
opportunity clause in every subcontract or purchase order, unless exempted by
the rules, regulations, or orders of the Secretary of Labor, so that such
provisions will be binding upon each such subcontractor or vendor.
   (E)   The village assures that it will actively provide nondiscriminatory
outreach, selection, and service to all individuals.
   (F)   Efforts will be made to hire minority individuals for all job
categories so that minority employment in all categories of the work force will
represent a proportionate share of minority populations in the village as well
as surrounding areas.
   (G)   The village will provide accommodations to the best of its ability for
employees with disabilities, contingent on budget and structural limitations.
   (H)   All village employees are expected to adhere to the above policy and
to work actively for its implementation both internally and in carrying out
village program activities.
   (I)   The village designates the Mayor and the Village Board to carry out
the EEO/AA plan.
(Prior Code, § 1-6-6) (Ord. 609, passed 3-3-2003)
§ 33.06 SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   In compliance with Public Act 100-0554, the village enacts and adopts the
policy attached to the ordinance from which this section is derived prohibiting
sexual harassment in the workplace.
(Ord. 2018-09, passed 11-5-2018)
CHAPTER 34: ETHICS
Section
   
34.01   Definitions
   
34.02   Prohibited political activities
   
34.03   Gift ban
   
34.04   Ethics Advisor
   
34.05   Ethics Commission
 
   
34.99   Penalty
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE. Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state, or local public office or office in a political
organization, or the selection, nomination, or election of presidential or vice
presidential electors, but does not include activities:
      (1)   Relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action;
      (2)   Relating to collective bargaining; or
      (3)   Otherwise in furtherance of the person’s official duties.
   CANDIDATE. A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for
nomination of election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill
a vacancy in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot
at a regular election, as defined in § 1-3 of the Election Code.
   COLLECTIVE BARGAINING. Has the same meaning as that term is defined in § 3
of the State Public Labor Relations Act.
   COMPENSATED TIME. With respect to an employee, any time worked by or
credited to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement
imposed as a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this
chapter, does not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal
time, compensatory time off, or any period when the employee is on a leave of
absence. With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed,
COMPENSATED TIME includes any period of time when the officer is on premises
under the control of the employer and any other time when the officer or
employee is executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
   COMPENSATORY TIME OFF. Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an
employee to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the
minimum work time required of that employee as a condition of his or her
employment.
   CONTRIBUTION. Has the same meaning as that term is defined in § 9-1.4 of the
Election Code.
   EMPLOYEE. A person employed by the village, whether on a full-time or part-
time basis, or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to the
direction and control of an employer with regard to the material details of how
the work is to be performed, but does not include an independent contractor.
   EMPLOYER. The Village of Brighton, Macoupin and Jersey Counties, Illinois.
   GIFT. Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance,
or other tangible or intangible item having monetary value, including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
   LEAVE OF ABSENCE. Any period during which an employee does not receive:
      (1)   Compensation for employment;
      (2)   Service credit towards pension benefits; and
      (3)   Health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
   OFFICER. A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created
by statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the OFFICER is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
   POLITICAL ACTIVITY. Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office of any political organization, but does not
include activities:
      (1)   Relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action;
      (2)   Relating to collective bargaining; or
      (3)   Otherwise in furtherance of the person’s official duties.
   POLITICAL ORGANIZATION. A party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the State Board of Elections or a county clerk under § 9-
3 of the Election Code, but only with regard to those activities that require
filing with the State Board of Elections or a county clerk.
   PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
      (1)   Preparing for, organizing, or participating in any political
meeting, political rally, political demonstration, or other political event;
      (2)   Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the
purchase of, selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any
political fundraiser, political meeting, or other political event;
      (3)   Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document
or report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution;
      (4)   Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question;
      (5)   Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters
in an election to determine probable vote outcome in connection with a campaign
for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for political
purposes or for or against any referendum question;
      (6)   Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question;
      (7)   Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls;
      (8)   Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question;
      (9)   Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office
in that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office;
      (10)   Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires;
      (11)   Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question;
      (12)   Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any
referendum question;
      (13)   Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or
against any referendum question;
      (14)   Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention; or
      (15)   Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
   PROHIBITED SOURCE. Any person or entity who:
      (1)   Is seeking official action:
         (a)   By an officer; or
         (b)   By an employee or by the officer of another employee directing
that employee.
      (2)   Does business or seeks to do business:
         (a)   With the officer; or
         (b)   With an employee, or with the officer or another employee
directing that employee.
      (3)   Conducts activities regulated:
         (a)   By the officer; or
         (b)   By an employee, or by the officer or another employee directing
that employee.
      (4)   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance
or nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-1) (Ord. 631, passed 6-7-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Election Code, see 10 ILCS 5/1-3
   State Public Labor Relations Act, see 5 ILCS 315/3
§ 34.02 PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITIES.
   Prohibited political activities are outlined as follows.
   (A)   No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any compensated time, as defined herein. No officer
or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of the village in
connection with any prohibited political activity.
   (B)   At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity:
      (1)   As part of that officer’s or employee’s duties;
      (2)   As a condition of employment; or
      (3)   During any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation, or
personal time off).
   (C)   No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate in
any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or employee
being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the form of a
salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment, or
otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional compensation
or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in any prohibited
political activity.
   (D)   Nothing in this section prohibits activities that are permissible for
an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties, or
activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary basis
which are not prohibited by this chapter.
   (E)   No person, either in a position that is subject to recognized merit
principles of public employment or in a position the salary for which is paid
in whole or in part by federal funds, and that is subject to the federal
standards for a merit system of personnel administration applicable to grant in
aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party, or of a political organization or club.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-2) (Ord. 631, passed 6-7-2004) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.03 GIFT BAN.
   (A)   Regulations. Except as permitted by this chapter, no officer or
employee, and no spouse of or immediate family member living with any officer
or employee (collectively referred to herein as RECIPIENTS), shall
intentionally solicit or accept any gift from any prohibited source, as defined
herein, or which is otherwise prohibited by law or ordinance. No prohibited
source shall intentionally offer or make a gift that violates this section.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   This section is not applicable to the following:
         (a)   Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the
same conditions as for the general public;
         (b)   Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse
or immediate family member, pays the fair market value;
         (c)   Any:
            1.   Contribution that is lawfully made under the Election Code; or
            2.   Activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a
political organization or candidate.
         (d)   Educational materials and missions;
         (e)   Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business;
         (f)   A gift from a RELATIVE, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half
sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the
individual’s spouse and the individual’s fiance or fiancee;
         (g)   Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship, unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as:
            1.   The history of the relationship between the individual giving
the gift and the recipient of the gift, including any previous exchange of
gifts between these individuals; and
            2.   Whether, to the actual knowledge of the recipient, the
individual who gave the gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax
deduction or business reimbursement for the gift.
         (h)   Food or refreshments not exceeding $75 per person in value on a
single calendar day; provided, that the food or refreshments are:
            1.   Consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared; or
            2.   Catered. For the purposes of this section, CATERED means food
or refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by any
means.
         (i)   Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation, and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if the
benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position or
employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to others
in similar circumstances;
         (j)   Intragovernmental and intergovernmental gifts. For the purpose
of this section, INTRAGOVERNMENTAL GIFT means any gift given to an officer or
employee from another officer or employee, and INTERGOVERNMENTAL GIFT means any
gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
governmental entity;
         (k)   Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death; and
         (l)   Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than $100.
      (2)   Each of the exceptions listed in this section is mutually exclusive
and independent of every other.
   (C)   Disposition of gifts. An officer or employee, his or her spouse, or an
immediate family member living with the officer or employee does not violate
this chapter if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift
from a prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to
its value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under §
501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as now or hereafter amended,
renumbered, or succeeded.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-3) (Ord. 631, passed 6-7-2004) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.04 ETHICS ADVISOR.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees
of the village, shall designate an ethics advisor for the village.
      (2)   The duties of the Ethics Advisor may be delegated to an officer or
employee of the village, unless the position has been created as an office by
the Village Board.
   (B)   The Ethics Advisor shall provide guidance to the officers and
employees of the village concerning the interpretation of and compliance with
the provisions of this chapter and state ethics laws. The Ethics Advisor shall
perform such other duties as may be delegated by the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-4) (Ord. 631, passed 6-7-2004)
§ 34.05 ETHICS COMMISSION.
   (A)   Created.
      (1)   There is hereby created a commission to be known as the Ethics
Commission of the village. The Commission shall be comprised of three members
appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees of
the village.
      (2)   No person shall be appointed as a member of the Commission who is
related, either by blood or by marriage up to the degree of first cousin, to
any elected office of the village. No more than two members of the Commission
shall belong to the same political party at the time such appointments are
made.
      (3)   Party affiliation shall be determined by affidavit of the person
appointed.
   (B)   Terms. At the first meeting of the Commission, the initial appointees
shall draw lots to determine their initial terms. Two Commissioners shall serve
two-year terms, and the third Commissioner shall serve a one-year term.
Thereafter, all Commissioners shall be appointed to two-year terms.
Commissioners may be reappointed to serve subsequent terms.
   (C)   Meetings; Chairperson. At the first meeting of the Commission, the
Commissioners shall choose a Chairperson from their number. Meetings shall be
held at the call of the Chairperson or any two Commissioners. A quorum shall
consist of two Commissioners, and official action by the Commission shall
require the affirmative vote of two members.
   (D)   Removal of Commissioner. The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the
Board of Trustees of the village, may remove a Commissioner in case of
incompetency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office after service on the
Commissioner by certified mail, return receipt requested, a copy of the written
charges against the Commissioner and after providing an opportunity to be heard
in person or by counsel upon not less than ten days’ notice. Vacancies shall be
filled in the same manner as original appointments.
   (E)   Powers and duties. The Commission shall have the following powers and
duties:
      (1)   To promulgate procedures and rules governing the performance of its
duties and the exercise of its powers;
      (2)   Upon receipt of a signed, notarized, written complaint, to
investigate, conduct hearings and deliberations, issue recommendations for
disciplinary actions, impose fines in accordance with the appropriate sections
of this chapter and refer violations of this chapter to the appropriate
attorney for prosecution. The Commission shall, however, act only upon the
receipt of a written complaint alleging a violation of this chapter and not
upon its own prerogative;
      (3)   To receive information from the public pertaining to its
investigations and to require additional information and documents from persons
who may have violated the provisions of this chapter;
      (4)   To compel the attendance of witnesses and to compel the production
of books and papers pertinent to an investigation. It is the obligation of all
officers and employees of the village to cooperate with the Commission during
the course of its investigations. Failure or refusal to cooperate with requests
by the Commission shall constitute grounds for discipline or discharge; and
      (5)   The powers and duties of the Commission are limited to matters
clearly within the purview of this chapter.
   (F)   Procedure regarding complaints.
      (1)   Complaints alleging a violation of this chapter shall be filed with
the Ethics Commission.
      (2)   Within three business days after the receipt of a complaint, the
Commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to
the respondent that a complaint has been filed against him or her and a copy of
the complaint. The Commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt
requested, a confirmation of the receipt of the complaint to the complainant
within three business days after receipt by the Commission. The notices to the
respondent and the complainant shall also advise them of the date, time, and
place of the meeting to determine the sufficiency of the complaint and to
establish whether probable cause exists to proceed.
      (3)   (a)   Upon not less than 48 hours’ public notice, the Commission
shall meet to review the sufficiency of the complaint and, if the complaint is
deemed sufficient to allege a violation of this chapter, to determine whether
there is probable cause, based on the evidence presented by the complainant, to
proceed. The meeting may be closed to the public to the extent authorized by
the Open Meetings Act, being 5 ILCS 120. The Commission shall issue notice to
the complainant and the respondent of the Commission’s ruling on the
sufficiency of the complaint and, if necessary, on probable cause to proceed
within seven business days after receiving the complaint.
         (b)   If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of
this chapter and there is a determination of probable cause, then the
Commission’s notice to the parties shall include a hearing date scheduled
within four weeks after the complaint’s receipt. Alternatively, the Commission
may elect to notify in writing the attorney designated by the corporate
authorities to prosecute such actions and request that the complaint be
adjudicated judicially. If the complaint is deemed not sufficient to allege a
violation or if there is no determination of probable cause, then the
Commission shall send by certified mail, return receipt requested, a notice to
the parties of the decision to dismiss the complaint, and that notice shall be
made public.
         (c)   If the complaint is deemed sufficient to allege a violation of
this chapter, then the Commission shall notify in writing the attorney
designated by the corporate authorities to prosecute such actions and shall
transmit to the attorney the complaint and all additional documents in the
custody of the Commission concerning the alleged violation.
      (4)   On the scheduled date and upon at least 48 hours’ public notice of
the meeting, the Commission shall conduct a hearing on the complaint and shall
allow both parties the opportunity to present testimony and evidence. The
hearing may be closed to the public only if authorized by the Open Meetings
Act.
      (5)   (a)   Within 30 days after the date the hearing or any recessed
hearing is concluded, the Commission shall either:
            1.   Dismiss the complaint; or
            2.   Issue a recommendation for discipline to the alleged violator
and to the township supervisor or other officer having authority to discipline
the officer or employee, or impose a fine upon the violator, or both.
         (b)   The particular findings in the case, any recommendation for
discipline, and any fine imposed shall be a matter of public information.
      (6)   If the hearing is closed to the public, the respondent may file a
written demand for a public hearing on the complaint within seven business days
after the issuance of the recommendation for discipline or imposition of a
fine, or both. The filing of the demand shall stay the enforcement of the
recommendation or fine. Within 14 days after receiving the demand, the
Commission shall conduct a public hearing on the complaint upon at least 48
hours’ public notice of the hearing and allow both parties the opportunity to
present testimony and evidence. Within seven days thereafter, the Commission
shall publicly issue a final recommendation to the alleged violation and to the
township supervisor or other officer having authority to discipline the officer
or employee or impose a fine upon the violator, or both.
      (7)   If a complaint is filed during the 60 days preceding the date of
any election at which the respondent is a candidate, the Commission shall
render its decision as required under division (F)(5) above within seven days
after the complaint is filed, and during the seven days preceding that
election, the Commission shall render such decision before the date of that
election, if possible.
      (8)   A complaint alleging the violation of this chapter must be filed
within one year after the alleged violation.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-5) (Ord. 631, passed 6-7-2004) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of this
chapter may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal institution other
than a penitentiary for a period of not more than 364 days and may be fined in
an amount not to exceed $2,500.
      (2)   A person who intentionally violates any provision of this chapter
is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than $1,001 and not more than
$5,000.
      (3)   Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a
violation of any provision of this chapter to the local enforcement
authorities, the state’s attorney or any other law enforcement official may be
punished by a term of incarceration in a penal institution other than a
penitentiary for a period of not more than 364 days, and may be fined in an
amount not to exceed $2,500.
      (4)   (a)   A violation of this chapter shall be prosecuted as a criminal
offense by an attorney for the village, by filing in the Circuit Court any
information, or sworn complaint, charging such offense. The prosecution shall
be under and conform to the rules of criminal procedure. Conviction shall
require the establishment of the guilt of the defendant beyond a reasonable
doubt.
         (b)   A violation of this chapter may be prosecuted as a quasi-
criminal offense by an attorney for the village, or, if an Ethics Commission
has been created, by the Commission through the designated administrative
procedure.
      (5)   In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of this chapter is subject to discipline or discharge.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-6)
   (B)   The Commission may fine any person who intentionally violates any
provision of this chapter in an amount of not less than $1,001 and not more
than $5,000. The Commission may fine any person who knowingly files a frivolous
complaint alleging a violation of this chapter in an amount of not less than
$1,001 and not more than $5,000. The Commission may recommend any appropriate
discipline, up to and including discharge.
(Prior Code, § 1-8-5)
(Ord. 631, passed 6-7-2004)
CHAPTER 35: FINANCE AND TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
35.001   Online bill payment for the village
   
35.002   Travel expense control regulations
   
35.003   Threshold for the recording of fixed assets of the village
   
35.004   Public funds investment policy
   
35.005   Central Brighton Business District
   
35.006   Municipal Building Hall reservations
TIF Interested Parties Registry
   
35.020   Definitions
   
35.021   Establishment of registry
   
35.022   Maintenance of registry
   
35.023   Registration by residents
   
35.024   Registration by organizations
   
35.025   Determination of eligibility
   
35.026   Notices and availability of information
   
35.027   Renewal and termination
   
35.028   Amendment to registration
   
35.029   Registries available for public inspection
   
35.030   Notices to be sent to interested parties
   
35.031   Noninterference
   
35.032   Amendment
Local Taxation; Taxpayers’ Rights
   
35.045   Title
   
35.046   Scope
   
35.047   Definitions
   
35.048   Notices
   
35.049   Late payment
   
35.050   Application of payment
   
35.051   Certain credits and refunds
   
35.052   Audit procedure
   
35.053   Appeal
   
35.054   Hearing
   
35.055   Interest and penalties
   
35.056   Abatement
   
35.057   Installment contracts
   
35.058   Statute of limitations
   
35.059   Voluntary disclosure
   
35.060   Publication of tax ordinances
   
35.061   Lien for unpaid taxes
   
35.062   Application of subchapter
Specific Taxes
   
35.075   Fire protection tax
   
35.076   Police protection tax
   
35.077   Simplified telecommunications tax
   
35.078   Cannabis retailers’ occupation tax
   
35.079   Municipal grocery retailers’ occupation tax and municipal grocery
service occupation tax
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.001 ONLINE BILL PAYMENT FOR THE VILLAGE.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer and Village Clerk are authorized and empowered
to pay the routine, ordinary, and approved bills incurred by the village
through online payment services.
   (B)   The Village Treasurer and Village Clerk are further authorized and
empowered to take all steps necessary with those vendors or the village that
accept online payments to become registered with such vendors in order to pay
said bills online.
(Res. 785, passed 10-5-2015)
§ 35.002 TRAVEL EXPENSE CONTROL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ENTERTAINMENT. Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements,
theaters, circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
      PUBLIC BUSINESS. Expenses incurred in the performance of a public purpose
which is required or useful for the benefit of the village to carry out the
responsibilities of the village’s business.
      TRAVEL. Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by employees
and officers of the village or charges of the village involving reimbursement
to travelers or direct payment to private agencies providing transportation of
related services.
(Prior Code, § 1-13-1)
   (B)   Maximum reimbursement rates. The village shall only reimburse the
following types of travel, meal, and lodging expenses incurred by its employees
and officers up to the following maximum allowable amounts.
      (1)   Transportation.
 
Maximum Reimbursable Rates for Transportation
Air travel                                Lowest reasonable rate (coach)
Auto                                      $0.65 per mile
Rail or bus                               Lowest reasonable rate
Rental car                                Lowest reasonable rate (midsize)
Taxi, shuttle, rideshare, parking, and/or Actual reasonable rate
public transportation
 
      (2)   Lodging.
 
Maximum Reimbursable Rates for Lodging*
Chicago and suburban Cook County $222 per night (pre-tax)
All other Illinois counties      $143 per night (pre-tax)
Outside of Illinois              $222 per night (pre-tax) or as approved by the
                                 Board
Note to Table:
*   Notwithstanding the above, conference/meeting site hotels will be
reimbursed at the actual itemized cost. To verify conference or meeting site
hotel rate, include conference literature or meeting itinerary with the expense
report when requesting reimbursement.
 
      (3)   Meals. 
 
Maximum Reimbursable Rates for Meals*
With all receipts                    $40 per day, including tax and gratuities
Without receipts (cannot be combined $15 per day, including tax and gratuities
with above)
Note to Table:
*   Alcohol is specifically excluded from reimbursement.
 
(Prior Code, § 1-13-2)
   (C)   Travel, meal, and lodging expense reimbursement request form. No
reimbursement of travel, meal, or lodging expenses incurred by a village
employee or officer shall be authorized unless the “travel, meal, and lodging
expense reimbursement request form,” on file in the village, has been submitted
and approved. All documents and information submitted with the form shall be
subject to disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act, being 5 ILCS 140.
(Prior Code, § 1-13-3)
   (D)   Excess expenses.
      (1)   Expenses for travel, meals, and lodging of the following may only
be approved by roll call vote at an open meeting of the corporate authorities
of the village:
         (a)   Any officer or employee that exceeds the maximum reimbursement
allowed under the regulations adopted under division (B) above; or
         (b)   Any member of the corporate authorities of the village.
      (2)   However, in the event of an emergency or other extraordinary
circumstances, the corporate authorities may approve more than the maximum
allowable expenses set forth above.
(Prior Code, § 1-13-4)
   (E)   Entertainment. The village shall not reimburse any elected official,
employee, or officer for any activities which would be considered
entertainment. Activities which would otherwise be considered entertainment,
but which are excluded from the prohibition on reimbursement due to being
ancillary to the purpose of the program or event, may be reimbursed in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 1-13-15)
(Ord. 821, passed 4-3-2017)
§ 35.003 THRESHOLD FOR THE RECORDING OF FIXED ASSETS OF THE VILLAGE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition applies
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FIXED ASSET. Tangible property acquired by the village which will not be
consumed or converted into cash within the current accounting period in which
the asset is obtained by the village.
   (B)   The Clerk or Treasurer for the village shall maintain a log of all
fixed assets with a purchase or replacement value of $5,000 or more at the time
of acquisition. Such log shall include the acquisition value of the asset, the
description of the asset, serial number (if applicable) of the asset, and the
location or custodian of the asset.
   (C)   A complete inventory of all logged assets shall be taken every year to
verify account balances and ensure control of the village’s fixed assets. All
employees of the village shall cooperate with and assist the Clerk or Treasurer
in completing the inventory.
   (D)   Any fixed assets acquired prior to the date of the ordinance from
which this section is derived of less than $5,000 value that have not yet been
logged on the village’s fixed asset log need not be logged following the date
of the adoption of the ordinance from which this section is derived.
(Ord. 741, passed 9-4-2013)
§ 35.004 PUBLIC FUNDS INVESTMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Adoption of investment policy. It is the policy of the village to
invest public funds in a manner which will provide the highest investment
return with the maximum security while meeting the daily cash flow demands of
the village and conforming to all state and local statutes governing the
investment of public funds.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-1)
   (B)   Scope. This policy includes all funds governed by the Board of
Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-2)
   (C)   Prudence. Investments shall be made with judgment and care, under
circumstances then prevailing, which persons of prudence, discretion, and
intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for
speculation, but for investment, considering the probable safety of their
capital, as well as the probable income to be derived. The standards of
prudence to be used by investment officials shall be the “prudent person”
standard and shall be applied in the context of managing an overall portfolio.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-3)
   (D)   Objectives.
      (1)   Objectives listed. The primary objectives, in order of priority,
shall be:
         (a)   Legality (conformance with federal, state, and other legal
requirements);
         (b)   Safety (preservation of capital and protection of investment
principal);
         (c)   Liquidity (maintenance of sufficient liquidity to meet operating
requirements); and
         (d)   Yield (attainment of market rates return).
      (2)   Periodic review. The portfolio should be reviewed periodically as
to its effectiveness in meeting the village needs for safety, liquidity, rate
of return, diversification, and its general performance.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-4)
   (E)   Delegation of authority. Management and administrative responsibility
for the investment program is hereby delegated to the Village Clerk, who, under
the delegation of the Board of Trustees, shall establish written procedures for
the operation of the investment program.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-5)
   (F)   Ethics and conflicts of interest. Officers and employees involved in
the investment process shall refrain from personal business activity that could
conflict with the proper execution and management of the investment program, or
that could impair their ability to make impartial decisions.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-6)
   (G)   Authorized financial dealers and institutions. The Village Clerk shall
maintain a list of financial institutions authorized to provide investment
services. In addition, a list will also be maintained of approved security
brokers/dealers selected by credit worthiness.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-7)
   (H)   Authorized and suitable investments. Investments may be made in any
type of security allowed for in state statutes regarding the investment of
public funds. Investments shall be made that reflect the cash flow needs of the
fund type being invested.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-8)
   (I)   Collaterization. Funds on deposit (checking accounts, certificates of
deposit, and the like) in excess of FDIC limits must be secured by some form or
collateral, witnessed by a written agreement and held at an independent third-
party institution in the name of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-9)
   (J)   Safekeeping and custody. All security transactions, including
collateral or repurchase agreements, entered into by the village, shall be
conducted on a delivery-versus-payment (DVP) basis. Securities will be held by
an independent third-party custodian designated by the Village Clerk and
evidenced by safekeeping receipts and a written custodial agreement.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-10)
   (K)   Diversification. The village shall diversify its investments to the
best of its ability based on the type of funds invested and the cash flow needs
of those funds. Diversification can be by type of investment, number of
institutions invested in, and length of maturity.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-11)
   (L)   Internal control.
      (1)   The Treasurer is responsible for establishing and maintaining an
internal control structure designed to ensure that the assets of the village
are protected from loss, theft, or misuse. The internal control structure shall
be designed to provide reasonable assurance that these objectives are met.
      (2)   The internal controls shall address the following points:
         (a)   Control of collusion;
         (b)   Separation of transaction authority from accounting;
         (c)   Custodial safekeeping; and
         (d)   Written confirmation of telephone transactions for investments
and wire transfers.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-12)
   (M)   Performance standards.
      (1)   The village investment portfolio will be managed in accordance with
the parameters specified within this policy.
      (2)   The portfolio should obtain a comparable rate of return during a
market/economic environment of stable interest rates. Portfolio performance
should be compared to benchmarks with similar maturity, liquidity, and credit
quality as the portfolio.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-13)
   (N)   Reporting. The Treasurer shall prepare an investment report at least
monthly. The report should be provided to the Board of Trustees and available
on request. The report should be in a format suitable for review by the general
public. An annual report should also be provided to the Board.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-14)
   (O)   Marking to market. A statement of the market value of the portfolio,
if applicable, shall be issued to the Board of Trustees quarterly.
(Prior Code, § 1-9-15)
(Ord. 577, passed 12-6-1999)
§ 35.005 CENTRAL BRIGHTON BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   District established.
      (1)   The village hereby designates the real estate described in Exhibit
A, “Central Brighton Business District Boundary Description,” attached to the
ordinance codified herein as a business district under the Business District
Act, and as the business district hereunder. Under the Business District Act,
the village hereby adopts and approves the Central Brighton Business District
Plan for the Central Brighton Business District. The Central Brighton Business
District Plan as so adopted and approved shall be on file with the Village
Clerk’s records with the ordinance codified herein (but any failure to so file
it shall not abrogate, diminish, or impair its effect).
      (2)   Obligations payable from and/or secured by revenues derived from
the Business District may be issued for financing business district project
costs.
(Prior Code, § 1-7C-1)
   (B)   Business District taxes.
      (1)   Effective January 1, 2011, a tax is hereby imposed upon all persons
engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property, other than an
item of tangible personal property titled or registered with an agency of this
state’s government, at retail within the boundaries of the Central Brighton
Business District at the rate of 1% of the gross receipts from such sales made
in the course of such business while this section is in effect; and a tax is
hereby imposed upon all persons engaged within the boundaries of the Central
Brighton Business District in the business of making sales of service, at the
rate of 1% of the selling price of all tangible personal property transferred
by such serviceperson as an incident to a sale of service. This “business
district retailers’ occupation tax” and this “business district service
occupation tax” shall not be applicable to the sales of food for human
consumption which is to be consumed off the premises where it is sold (other
than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and food that has been prepared for
immediate consumption) and prescription and nonprescription medicines, drugs,
medical appliances, modifications to a motor vehicle for the purpose of
rendering it usable by a disabled person, and insulin, urine testing materials,
syringes, and needles used by diabetics.
      (2)   The imposition of these business district taxes is in accordance
with the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/11-74.3-6(b), (c), and (d). The Village Board
shall adopt an ordinance to discontinue these business district taxes such that
said taxes shall not be imposed for more than 23 years, in accordance with
state law, within the time frame necessary to duly notify the State Department
of Revenue (not less than three months but not more than eight months prior to
continuation).
(Prior Code, § 1-7C-2)
   (C)   Financial assistance program. All applications for economic assistance
through the Central Brighton Business District financial assistance program
shall first be submitted to the village’s economic development committee. The
village’s economic development committee shall screen said applications on a
case by case basis. The village’s economic development committee shall
determine the merits of said application by majority vote. Those applications
receiving a favorable vote by the majority of the members of the village’s
economic development committee shall then be presented to the Board of Trustees
of the village for further consideration. The Board of Trustees of the village
shall make the final determination as to the approval or disapproval of
applications for assistance.
(Prior Code, § 1-7C-3)
(Ord. 692, passed 7-12-2010; Ord. 703, passed 9-7-2010; Ord. 713, passed 5-2-
2011)
§ 35.006 MUNICIPAL BUILDING HALL RESERVATIONS.
   (A)   Hall rental contract.
BRIGHTON MUNICIPAL BUILDING HALL RENTAL CONTRACT
Applicant is liable for any and all damages incurred.
Deposit money will not be returned if any damage occurs.
 
____ No alcohol in the building
____ No nails on the auditorium walls, doors, tables, or ceiling. No tape on
the doors.
____ All tables must be covered with a tablecloth.
____ When finished return room to how it was, clean with 10 tables set up.
____ All trash to be taken out to the dumpster at the rear of the building.
____ Floors must be swept and mopped, if needed (broom and mop in janitorial
closet in hall, right of men's restroom)
____ Everything in the kitchen can be used EXCEPT both Deep Fryers.
____ Kitchen counters and sinks must be cleaned. No food left behind. All items
used must be washed and put away.
____ Both Men and Women's Bathrooms must be cleaned, toilets flushed, counters
clean, and trash taken out.
____ Cancellation: Notice of cancellation must be received at the City Clerk's
Office at (618)372-8860 no later than one week in advance of the event. Failure
to do so will forfeit the deposit fee. The rental fee will be returned.
____ Obtaining Entry: PLEASE NOTE: If doors are locked, please call the Officer
on Duty at (618)372-8112 if no response call Village Clerk at (217)730-6455.
I acknowledge and understand the above rental agreement as put forth by the
Village of Brighton.
Signature: ___________________________________________________   Date:
___________________________
 
If for any reason you need to cancel your Rental Reservation, please let the
Clerk know one week in advance from the event date.
BRIGHTON MUNICIPAL BUILDING HALL APPLICATION
Hall & Kitchen - $125 plus a $125 deposit.
*Deposit will be returned after inspection after event date.
NAME:
_________________________________________________________________________________________
   (Please print)
ADDRESS:
_______________________________________________________________________________________
    (Street or P.O. Box)               (City)            (State)
PHONE:_________________________________________________________________
E-MAIL: _______________________________________________________________
REQUESTED DATE TO USE THE HALL: _______________________________________
EVENT DESCRIPTION:_____________________________________________________
START & END TIME:______________________________________________________
If check is returned from bank there will be a $35 return check fee.
I agree to all of the terms of this contract and application.
Signature:
______________________________________________________________________
Date:__________________________
 
OFFICE USE ONLY      
Amount Paid: $ ________________________________ Date Paid:
__________________________________
Received by: __________________________________
Hall inspection completed-Deposit returned         Date:
________________________
Hall inspection completed-Deposit retained             Picked up
________________________________________
Signature of deposit recipient if picked up.
 
   (B)   Hall application.
The Village of Brighton
206 S. Main Street
P. O. Box 458 Brighton, IL 62012 (618) 372-8860
Tamara Jenkins, Clerk          Matthew P. Kasten, Mayor          Ashley
Lievers, Treasurer
Municipal Building HALL RESERVATION CONTRACT
For BRIGHTON based 501-C or BUSINESS
Applicant is liable for any and all damages incurred.
_____ No alcohol in the building
_____ Tables MUST be covered. No nails on the auditorium walls, doors, tables,
or ceiling. No tape on the doors.
_____ Return the room the way you found it-clean with 10 tables set up. (no
chairs)
_____ All trash to be taken out to the dumpster at the rear of the building.
_____ Floors must be swept and mopped, if needed (broom and mop in janitorial
closet in hall, right of men’s restroom)
_____ Everything in the kitchen can be used EXCEPT both Deep Fryers.
_____ Kitchen counters and sinks must be cleaned. No food left behind. All
items used must be washed and put away.
_____ Both Men & Women’s Bathrooms must be cleaned, toilets flushed, counters
clean, & trash taken out.
_____ Cancellation: Notice of cancellation must be received at the City Clerk’s
Office at (618)372-8860 no later than one week in advance of the event. Failure
to do so could impact future reservations.
_____ Obtaining Entry: PLEASE NOTE: If doors are locked, please call the
Officer on Duty at (618)372-8112
ext. 2 if no response call Village Clerk at (217)730-6455.
I acknowledge and understand the above agreement as put forth by the Village of
Brighton.
Signature of Officer: _________________________________________   Date:
________________________
OVER
   (C)   Hall reservation contract.
If for any reason you need to cancel your Reservation, please let the Clerk
know one week in advance from event date.
Municipal Building HALL RESERVATION CONTRACT
For BRIGHTON based 501-C or BUSINESS
ORGANIZATION:
________________________________________________________________________________
         (Please print)
ADDRESS:
_______________________________________________________________________________________
      (Street or P O Box)            (City)            (State)
CONTACT PERSON:
______________________________________________________________________________
PHONE: _____________________________________    E-MAIL:
_____________________________________
REQUESTED DATE: ______________________________   Start & End Time:
______________________________
         Saturday & Sunday Excluded
EVENT DESCRIPTION: ________________________________________
   **Non-Profits: Please provide a copy of         **Registered Businesses:
receive one free
   your Non-Profit status to receive the         rental per year. Additional
rentals will be
   reservation for free. **               charged a non-refundable fee of $25.
I agree to all of the terms of this contract and application.
Signature:
________________________________________________________________________________________
Date: ____________________________________
 
OFFICE USE ONLY      
 
Date: __________________________________________ Hall inspection passed.
 
Inspected by:
___________________________________ Damages or uncleaned areas.
 
List issues: _________________________________________
 
OVER
TIF INTERESTED PARTIES REGISTRY
§ 35.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Tax Allocation Redevelopment Act, 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-1 et seq., as
amended from time to time.
   INTERESTED PARTY(IES).
      (1)   Any organization(s) active within the village;
      (2)   Any resident(s) of the village; and
      (3)   Any other entity or person otherwise entitled under the Act to
register in a specific registry who has been registered in such registry and
whose registration has not been otherwise terminated in accordance with this
subchapter.
   REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA. A redevelopment project area that:
      (1)   Is intended to qualify (or has subsequently qualified) as a
REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA under the Act; and
      (2)   Is subject to the “interested parties” registry requirements of the
Act.
   REGISTRATION APPLICATION FORM. The form appended to this chapter or such
revised form as may be approved by the village consistent with the requirements
of the Act.
   REGISTRY or REGISTRIES. Each interested party’s REGISTRY, and all such
REGISTRIES, collectively, established by the village pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-
74.4-4-2 for the redevelopment project area.
   VILLAGE. Village of Brighton, Jersey County and Macoupin County, Illinois.
(Prior Code, § 1-12-1) (Ord. 738, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 35.021 ESTABLISHMENT OF REGISTRY.
   The village shall establish a separate interested parties registry for each
redevelopment project area being considered by the village or hereafter
established. The village shall establish a new registry whenever it has
identified an area for study and possible designation as a redevelopment
project area. In any event, the process of establishing the new registry must
be completed prior to the deadline for sending any of the notices required by §
35.030 or any other notices required by the Act with respect to the proposed
redevelopment project area.
(Prior Code, § 1-12-2) (Ord. 738, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 35.022 MAINTENANCE OF REGISTRY.
   The Village Clerk or his or her designee shall maintain the registries. The
registry shall include the name, address, and telephone number of each
registered resident; and for registered organizations, the name and phone
number of a designated contact person.
(Prior Code, § 1-12-3) (Ord. 738, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 35.023 REGISTRATION BY RESIDENTS.
   An individual seeking to register as an interested party with respect to a
redevelopment project area must complete and submit a registration application
form to the Village Clerk. Such individual must also submit a copy of a current
driver’s license, lease, utility bill, financial statement, or such other
evidence as may be acceptable to the Clerk to establish the individual’s
current residency in the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-12-4) (Ord. 738, passed 8-5-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.024 REGISTRATION BY ORGANIZATIONS.
   An organization seeking to register as an interested party with respect to a
redevelopment project area must complete and submit a registration application
form to the Village Clerk. Such organization must also submit a copy of a one-
page statement describing the organization’s current operations in the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-12-5) (Ord. 738, passed 8-5-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.025 DETERMINATION OF ELIGIBILITY.
   All individuals and organizations whose registration application form and
supporting documentation complies with this subchapter shall be registered in
the applicable registry within ten business days of the Village Clerk’s receipt
of all such documents. If the Village Clerk determines that an applicant’s
registration application form and/or supporting documentation is incomplete or
does not comply with this subchapter, the Clerk shall give written notice to
the applicant specifying the defect(s). The applicant shall be entitled to
correct any defects and resubmit a new registration application form and
supporting documentation.
(Prior Code, § 1-12-6) (Ord. 738, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 35.026 NOTICES AND AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION.
   Upon registration, interested parties shall be entitled to receive all
notices required under the Act, including how to obtain information concerning
the applicable redevelopment project area. The village reserves the right to
charge recipients for the cost of copies and postage/delivery charges for
requested documents.
(Prior Code, § 1-12-7) (Ord. 738, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 35.027 RENEWAL AND TERMINATION.
   (A)   An interested party’s registration shall remain effective for a period
of three years. At any time after such three-year period, the Village Clerk
shall provide written notice by regular mail to the interested party stating
that such registration shall terminate unless the interested party renews such
registration within 30 days of the Clerk’s mailing of written notice.
   (B)   (1)   To renew such registration, the interested party shall, within
such 30-day period, complete and submit the same registration application form
and supporting documentation then required of initial registrants in order to
permit the Clerk to confirm such person’s residency or such organization’s
operations in the village.
      (2)   The registration of all individuals and organizations whose
registration application form and supporting documentation is submitted in a
timely manner and complies with this subchapter shall be renewed for an
additional, consecutive three-year period.
   (C)   If the Village Clerk determines that a registrant’s renewal
registration application form and/or supporting documentation is incomplete or
does not comply with this subchapter, the Clerk shall give written notice to
the registrant at the address specified in the renewal registration application
form submitted, specifying the defect(s).
   (D)   (1)   The registrant shall be entitled to correct any defects and
resubmit a new registration application form and supporting documentation
within 30 days of receipt of the Clerk’s notice.
      (2)   If all defects are not corrected within 30 days of the interested
party’s receipt of the Village Clerk’s notice, the interested party’s
registration shall be terminated.
      (3)   Any interested party whose registration is terminated shall be
entitled to register again as if a first time applicant.
(Prior Code, § 1-12-8) (Ord. 738, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 35.028 AMENDMENT TO REGISTRATION.
   (A)   An interested party may amend its registration by giving written
notice to the Village Clerk by certified mail for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   A change in address for notice purposes;
      (2)   In the case of organizations, a change in the name of the contact
person; and
      (3)   A termination of registration.
   (B)   Upon receipt of such notice, the Clerk shall revise the applicable
registry accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 1-12-9) (Ord. 738, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 35.029 REGISTRIES AVAILABLE FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   Each registry shall be available for public inspection during the village’s
normal business hours.
(Prior Code, § 1-12-10) (Ord. 738, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 35.030 NOTICES TO BE SENT TO INTERESTED PARTIES.
   Interested parties shall be sent the following notices as well as any other
notices required under the Act with respect to the applicable redevelopment
project area:
   (A)   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-5(a), notice of the availability of a
proposed redevelopment plan and eligibility report, including how to obtain
this information. Such notice shall be sent by mail within a reasonable period
of time after the adoption of the ordinance fixing a time and place for the
public hearing for the proposed redevelopment plan;
   (B)   (1)   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-5(a), notice of changes to a
proposed redevelopment plan that does not:
         (a)   Add additional parcels of property to the proposed redevelopment
project area;
         (b)   Substantially affect the general land uses proposed in the
redevelopment plan;
         (c)   Substantially change the nature of or extend the life of the
redevelopment project; or
         (d)   Increase the number of low or very low income households to be
displaced from the redevelopment project area, provided that, measured from the
time of creation of the redevelopment project area, the total displacement of
households will exceed ten.
      (2)   Such notice shall be sent by mail not later than ten days following
the village’s adoption by ordinance or such changes.
   (C)   (1)   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-5(c), notice of amendments to a
previously approved redevelopment plan that does not:
         (a)   Add additional parcels of property to the redevelopment project
area;
         (b)   Substantially affect the general land uses in the redevelopment
plan;
         (c)   Substantially change the nature of the redevelopment project;
         (d)   Increase the total estimated redevelopment project costs set out
in the redevelopment plan by more than 5% after adjustment for inflation from
the date the plan was adopted;
         (e)   Add additional redevelopment project costs to the itemized list
of redevelopment project costs set out in the redevelopment plan; or
         (f)   Increase the number of low or very low income households to be
displaced from the redevelopment project area, provided that, measured from the
time of creation of the redevelopment project area, the total displacement of
households will exceed ten.
      (2)   Such notice shall be sent by mail not later than ten days following
the village’s adoption by ordinance of any such amendment.
   (D)   (1)   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-5(d) for redevelopment plans or
projects that would result in the displacement of residents from ten or more
inhabited residential units or that contain 75 or more inhabited residential
units, notice of the availability of the annual report described by 65 ILCS 5/
11-74.4- 5(d)(9), including how to obtain the annual report.
      (2)   Such notice shall be sent by mail within a reasonable period of
time after completion of the certified audit report; and
   (E)   Pursuant to 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-6(e), notice of the public meeting
required under the Act for a proposed redevelopment project area that will
result in the displacement of ten or more inhabited residential units or which
will contain 75 or more inhabited residential units. Such notice shall be sent
by certified mail not less than 15 days before the date of such public meeting
and shall include the information required under 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-6(e).
(Prior Code, § 1-12-11) (Ord. 738, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 35.031 NONINTERFERENCE.
   This subchapter shall not be used to prohibit or otherwise interfere with
the ability of eligible organizations and individuals to register for receipt
of information to which they are entitled under the Act.
(Prior Code, § 1-12-12) (Ord. 738, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 35.032 AMENDMENT.
   This subchapter may be amended by the village subject to and consistent with
the requirements of the Act.
(Prior Code, § 1-12-13) (Ord. 738, passed 8-5-2013)
LOCAL TAXATION; TAXPAYERS’ RIGHTS
§ 35.045 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the “Locally Imposed
and Administered Tax Rights and Responsibility Ordinance.”
(Prior Code, § 1-10-1) (Ord. 585, passed 2-5-2001)
§ 35.046 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the village’s procedures in
connection with all of the village’s locally imposed and administered taxes.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-2) (Ord. 585, passed 2-5-2001)
§ 35.047 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Local Government Taxpayers’ Bill of Rights Act, being 50 ILCS 45.
   CORPORATE AUTHORITIES. The Mayor and Board of Trustees.
   HEARING OFFICER. An administrative individual appointed by the Mayor of the
Board of Trustees with the advice and consent of the corporate authorities to
conduct hearings and to issue final determinations regarding the collection of
all locally imposed and administered taxes.
   LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The Village Clerk is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees, or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR to act in the LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR’S stead. The
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
subchapter to give full effect to this subchapter. The exercise of such
authority by the LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR shall not be inconsistent with this
subchapter and the Act.
   LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX or TAX. Each tax imposed by the village
that is collected or administered by the village, not an agency or department
of the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under
the Property Tax Code, being 35 ILCS 200, or fees collected by the village
other than infrastructure maintenance fees.
   NOTICE. Each audit notice, collection notice, or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village’s locally imposed and
administered taxes.
   TAX ORDINANCE. Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes any
locally imposed and administered tax.
   TAXPAYER. Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered
tax and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax
is placed, and with respect to consumer taxes, includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Brighton, Illinois.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-3) (Ord. 585, passed 2-5-2001)
§ 35.048 NOTICES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given,
the notice is to be in writing mailed not less than seven calendar days prior
to the day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit, or other scheduled act of
the local tax administrator.
   (B)   The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as follows:
      (1)   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons’ last known address; or
      (2)   Personal service or delivery.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-4) (Ord. 585, passed 2-5-2001)
§ 35.049 LATE PAYMENT.
   Any notice, payment, remittance, or other filing required to be made to the
village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered LATE unless it is:
   (A)   Physically received by the village on or before the due date; or
   (B)   Received in an envelope or other container displaying a valid,
readable U.S. postmark dated on or before the due date, properly addressed to
the village, with adequate postage prepaid.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-5) (Ord. 585, passed 2-5-2001)
§ 35.050 APPLICATION OF PAYMENT.
   Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order:
   (A)   First, to the tax due for the applicable period;
   (B)   Second, to the interest due for the applicable period; and
   (C)   Third, to the penalty for the applicable period.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-6) (Ord. 585, passed 2-5-2001)
§ 35.051 CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   Written protest. The village shall not refund or credit any taxes
voluntarily paid without written protest at the time of payment in the event
that a locally imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer
shall not be deemed to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked
knowledge of the facts upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment
or if the taxpayer paid the taxes under duress.
   (B)   Statute of limitation.
      (1)   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
four or fewer years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in
error was made.
      (2)   The village shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed
and administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the village.
   (C)   Claim procedure. The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of
locally imposed and administered taxes, interest, or penalties paid in error
shall be as follows.
      (1)   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         (a)   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         (b)   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         (c)   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
canceled check or receipt for the payment;
         (d)   The taxpayer’s recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         (e)   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest, and penalties overpaid,
and, as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however,
that there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer
owes any monies to the village.
      (2)   Within ten days of the receipt by the local tax administrator of
any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         (a)   Grant the claim; or
         (b)   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement
as to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      (3)   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of 5% per annum, based on a year of 365
days and the number of days elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the
date of mailing of a refund check or the grant of a credit.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-7) (Ord. 585, passed 2-5-2001)
§ 35.052 AUDIT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Notice requirements. Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any
locally administered tax shall comply with the notice requirements of this
subchapter. Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The tax;
      (2)   The time period of the audit; and
      (3)   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   (B)   Time and date of audit. Any audit shall be conducted during normal
business hours, and if the date and time selected by the local tax
administrator is not agreeable to the taxpayer, another date and time may be
required by the taxpayer within 30 days after the originally designated audit
and during normal business hours.
   (C)   Extension of time.
      (1)   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven days nor more than
30 days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer and the local
tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time.
      (2)   In the event the taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the
date in question, the taxpayer may request another date within the 30 days,
approved in writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax
administrator.
   (D)   Books and records.
      (1)   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the
taxpayer’s business or activities, including original source documents and
books of entry denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given
rise to any tax liability, exemption, or deduction. All books shall be kept in
the English language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by
the village.
      (2)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make
available its books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer
fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the time provided,
the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and assessment based
on the tax administrator’s determination of the best estimate of the taxpayer’s
tax liability.
   (E)   Overpayment. If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a
locally imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice
of the amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within 30 days of
the village’s determination of the amount of overpayment.
   (F)   Payment to incorrect entity. In the event a tax payment was submitted
to the incorrect local governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall
notify the local governmental entity imposing such tax.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-8) (Ord. 585, passed 2-5-2001)
§ 35.053 APPEAL.
   (A)   Notice to taxpayer. The local tax administrator shall send written
notice to a taxpayer upon the local tax administrator’s issuance of a
protestable notice of tax due, a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim
reduction regarding any tax. The notice shall include the following
information:
      (1)   The reason for the assessment;
      (2)   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      (3)   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      (4)   The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund,
and collection process.
   (B)   Filing of protest. A taxpayer who receives written notice from the
local tax administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file
with the local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing,
setting forth the basis of the taxpayer’s request for a hearing. The written
protest and petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator
within 45 days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   (C)   Time and place for hearing. If a timely written notice and petition
for hearing is filed, the local tax administrator shall fix the time and place
for hearing and shall give written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be
scheduled for a date within 14 days of receipt of the written protest and
petition for hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to
all parties.
   (D)   Failure to file protest. If a written protest and petition for hearing
is not filed within the 45-day period, the tax determination, audit, or
assessment shall become a final bill due and owing without further notice.
   (E)   Extension of time. Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the
taxpayer and the full payment of the contested tax liability along with
interest accrued as of the due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may
reopen or extend the time for filing a written protest and petition for
hearing. In no event shall the time for filing a written protest and petition
for hearing be reopened or extended for more than 30 days after the expiration
of the 45-day period.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-9) (Ord. 585, passed 2-5-2001)
§ 35.054 HEARING.
   (A)   Conduct of hearing. Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a
timely written protest and petition for hearing under §
35.053, the local tax administrator shall conduct a hearing regarding any
appeal. The taxpayer may request that a hearing officer conduct the hearing
rather than the local tax administrator.
   (B)   Continuance. No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a
continuance is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack
of preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed 14 days.
   (C)   Testimony and evidence. At the hearing, the local tax administrator/
hearing officer shall preside and shall hear testimony and accept any evidence
relevant to the tax determination, audit, or assessment. The strict rules of
evidence applicable to judicial proceedings shall not apply.
   (D)   Written determination. At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax
administrator/hearing officer shall make a written determination on the basis
of the evidence presented at the hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall
be provided with a copy of the written decision.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-10) (Ord. 585, passed 2-5-2001)
§ 35.055 INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Generally. In the event a determination has been made that a tax is
due and owing, through audit, assessment, or other bill sent, the tax must be
paid within the time frame otherwise indicated.
   (B)   Interest. The village hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be 5%
per annum, based on a year of 365 days and the number of days elapsed.
   (C)   Late filing and payment penalties.
      (1)   If a tax return is not filed within the time and manner provided by
the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing penalty of 5% of the amount of tax
required to be shown as due on a return shall be imposed; and a late payment
penalty of 5% of the tax due shall be imposed.
      (2)   If no return is filled within the time or manner provided by the
controlling tax ordinance and prior to the village issuing a notice of tax
delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure to file penalty shall be
assessed equal to 12% of the total tax due for the applicable reporting period
for which the return was required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty
shall not apply if a failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-11) (Ord. 585, passed 2-5-2001)
§ 35.056 ABATEMENT.
   The local tax administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any
late filing penalty, late payment penalty, or failure to file penalty if the
local tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or
failure to make a filing.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-12) (Ord. 585, passed 2-5-2001)
§ 35.057 INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS.
   (A)   The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer
for the payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is 30 days delinquent, the taxpayer
shall have 14 calendar days to cure any delinquency.
   (B)   If the taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the 14-day
period, or fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment
contract with the local administrator, the installment contract shall be
canceled without further notice to the taxpayer.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-13) (Ord. 585, passed 2-5-2001)
§ 35.058 STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Notice. The village, through the local tax administrator, shall review
all tax returns in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any
amounts due and owing. The taxpayer shall have 45 days after receiving notice
of the reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax
still due and owing.
   (B)   Time limit. No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more
than four years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   (C)   Extension. If any tax return is not filed or if, during any four-year
period for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by
the village, the tax paid was less than 75% of the tax due, the statute of
limitations shall be six years maximum after the end of the calendar year in
which the return for the applicable period was due or end of the calendar year
in which the return for the applicable period was filed.
   (D)   Fraudulent return. No statute of limitations shall apply if a
fraudulent return was filed by the taxpayer.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-14) (Ord. 585, passed 2-5-2001)
§ 35.059 VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   (1)   For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a
taxpayer has not received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or
assessment from the local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an
application with the local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the
tax due.
      (2)   A taxpayer filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to
pay the amount of tax due, along with interest of 1% per month, for all periods
prior to the filing of the application, but not more than four years before the
date of filing the application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure
application may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for
any period before the date the application was filed.
   (B)   (1)   However, if the taxpayer incorrectly determined and underpaid
the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is liable for the underpaid tax along with
applicable interest on the underpaid tax, unless the underpayment was the
result of fraud on the part of the taxpayer, in which case the application
shall be deemed invalid and void.
      (2)   The payment of tax and interest must be made by not later than 90
days after the filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date
agreed to by the local tax administrator. However, any additional amounts owed
as a result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within 90 days after a final determination and the
exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed to
by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-15) (Ord. 585, passed 2-5-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.060 PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES.
   Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements, and may be published in pamphlet form. The
posting of a tax ordinance on the internet shall satisfy the publication
requirements. Copies of all tax ordinances shall be made available to the
public upon request at the Village Clerk’s office.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-16) (Ord. 585, passed 2-5-2001)
§ 35.061 LIEN FOR UNPAID TAXES.
   (A)   The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review
procedure regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes.
Upon a determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the
lien shall remain in full force and effect.
   (B)   If the lien is determined to be improper, the local tax administrator
shall:
      (1)   Timely remove the lien at the village’s expense;
      (2)   Correct the taxpayer’s credit record; and
      (3)   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-17) (Ord. 585, passed 2-5-2001)
§ 35.062 APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement
all of the village tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in
conflict with or inconsistent with this subchapter, this subchapter shall be
controlling.
(Prior Code, § 1-10-18) (Ord. 585, passed 2-5-2001)
SPECIFIC TAXES
§ 35.075 FIRE PROTECTION TAX.
   A tax is hereby imposed for the purpose of fire protection in the village at
the rate of 0.075% of the value as equalized or assessed by the State
Department of Revenue for all taxable property therein, in all succeeding
years, all in accordance with the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/11-7-1.
(Prior Code, § 1-7A-1) (Ord. 335, passed 7-6-1970)
§ 35.076 POLICE PROTECTION TAX.
   A tax is hereby imposed for the purpose of police protection in the village
at the rate of 0.075% of the value as equalized or assessed by the State
Department of Revenue for all taxable property therein, in all succeeding
years, all in accordance with the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/11-1-3.
(Prior Code, § 1-7B-1) (Ord. 336, passed 7-6-1970)
§ 35.077 SIMPLIFIED TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX.
   (A)   State law applicable. This section is adopted pursuant to the
provisions of the State Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax Act, 35
ILCS 636/5-1 et seq. (the Act).
(Prior Code, § 1-7D-1)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      AMOUNT PAID. The amount charged to the taxpayer’s service address in this
municipality regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
      DEPARTMENT. The State Department of Revenue.
      GROSS CHARGE. The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in this municipality and for all services and
equipment provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money
whether paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and
property of every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction
on account of the cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials
used, labor or service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is
extended, the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. GROSS
CHARGES for private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel
termination point within a municipality that has imposed a tax under this
section (or whatever is appropriate) and charges for the portion of the
interoffice channels provided within that municipality. Charges for that
portion of the interoffice channel connecting two or more channel termination
points, one or more of which is located within the jurisdictional boundary of
such municipality, shall be determined by the retailer by multiplying an amount
equal to the total charge for the interoffice channel by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the number of channel termination points that are located
within the jurisdictional boundary of the municipality and the denominator of
which is the total number of channel termination points connected by the
interoffice channel. However, GROSS CHARGE shall not include any of the
following:
         (a)   Any amounts added to a purchaser’s bill because of a charge made
pursuant to:
            1.   The tax imposed by this section;
            2.   The tax imposed by the Telecommunications Excise Tax Act,
being 35 ILCS 630;
            3.   The tax imposed by § 4251 of the Internal Revenue Code, being
26 U.S.C. § 4251;
            4.   911 charges; or
            5.   Charges added to customers’ bill pursuant to the provisions of
§§ 9-221 or 9-222 of the Public Utilities Act, being 220 ILCS 5/9-221, 220 ILCS
5/9-222, and 220 ILCS 5/9-222.1, as amended, or any similar charges added to
customers’ bills by retailers who are not subject to rate regulation by the
State Commerce Commission for the purpose of recovering any of the tax
liabilities or other amounts specified in those provisions of the Public
Utilities Act.
         (b)   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of
such municipality;
         (c)   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage
of data or information or subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment, or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time sharing agreement;
         (d)   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
         (e)   Charges to business enterprises certified under § 9-222.1 of the
Public Utilities Act, being 220 ILCS 5/9-221, 220 ILCS 5/9-222, and 220 ILCS 5/
9-222.1, to the extent of such exemption and during the period of time
specified by the Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity;
         (f)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed
under this section has already been paid to a retailer, and only to the extent
that the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries
or between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering
such service;
         (g)   Bad debts ( BAD DEBT means any portion of a debt that is related
to a sale at retail for which GROSS CHARGES are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
         (h)   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin operated
telecommunications devices;
         (i)   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under the
Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee Act, being 35 ILCS 635; and
         (j)   1.   Charge for nontaxable services or telecommunications if:
               a.   Those charges are aggregated with other charges for
telecommunications that are taxable;
               b.   Those charges are not separately stated on the customer
bill or invoice; and
               c.   The retailer can reasonably identify the nontaxable charges
on the retailer’s books and records kept in the regular course of business.
            2.   If the nontaxable charges cannot reasonably be identified, the
GROSS CHARGE from the sale of both taxable and nontaxable services or
telecommunications billed on a combined basis shall be attributed to the
taxable services or telecommunications. The burden of proving nontaxable
charges shall be on the retailer of the telecommunications.
      INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS. All telecommunications that either
originate or terminate outside this state.
      INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS. All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within this state.
      PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability
company, or a receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by
order of any court, the federal and state governments, including state
universities created by statute, or any city, town, county, or other political
subdivision of this state.
      PURCHASE AT RETAIL. The acquisition, consumption, or use of
telecommunications through a sale at retail.
      RETAILER. Includes every person engaged in the business of making sales
at retail as defined in this section.
         (a)   The Department may, in its discretion, upon application,
authorize the collection of the tax hereby imposed by any retailer not
maintaining a place of business within this state, who, to the satisfaction of
the Department, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment of
the tax. Such RETAILER shall be issued, without charge, a permit to collect
such tax.
         (b)   When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such RETAILER to
collect the tax upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in this
state in the same manner and subject to the same requirements as a RETAILER
maintaining a place of business within this state. The permit may be revoked by
the Department at its discretion.
      RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE. Includes any
retailer having or maintaining within this state, directly or by a subsidiary,
an office, distribution facilities, transmission facilities, sales office,
warehouse, or other place of business, or any agent or other representative
operating within this state under the authority of the retailer or its
subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or agent or other
representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or whether such
retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
      SALE AT RETAIL. The transmitting, supplying, or furnishing of
telecommunications and all services and equipment provided in connection
therewith for a consideration to persons other than the federal and state
governments, and state universities created by statute and other than between a
parent corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption and not for resale.
      SERVICE ADDRESS. The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems, and maritime
systems, SERVICE ADDRESS means the customer’s place of primary use as defined
in the Mobile Telecommunications Sourcing Conformity Act, being 35 ILCS 638.
For air-to- ground systems and the like, SERVICE ADDRESS shall mean the
location of a taxpayer’s primary use of the telecommunications equipment as
defined by telephone number, authorization code, or location in the state where
bills are sent.
      TAXPAYER. A person who individually or through his or her agents,
employees, or permittees engages in the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in a municipality and who incurs a tax liability
as authorized by this section.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS. In addition to the meaning ordinarily and popularly
ascribed to it, includes, without limitation, messages or information
transmitted through the use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
private line services, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter,
computer exchange services, cellular mobile telecommunications service,
specialized mobile radio, stationary two-way radio, paging service, or any
other form of mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. As used in this section, PRIVATE LINE means a
dedicated nontraffic sensitive service for a single customer, that entitles the
customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group of
channels, from one or more specified locations to one or more other specified
locations. The definition of TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include value added
services in which computer processing applications are used to act on the form,
content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes other than
transmission. TELECOMMUNICATIONS shall not include purchases of
telecommunications by a telecommunication service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end-to-end communications.
Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of
intercompany facilities, and all TELECOMMUNICATIONS resold in the subsequent
provision of, used as a component of, or integrated into, end-to-end
telecommunications service shall be nontaxable as sales for resale. Prepaid
telephone calling arrangements shall not be considered TELECOMMUNICATIONS
subject to the tax imposed under the Act. For the purposes of this definition,
PREPAID TELEPHONE CALLING ARRANGEMENTS means that term as defined in § 2-27 of
the Retailer’s Occupation Tax Act, 35 ILCS 120/2-27.
(Prior Code, § 1-7D-2)
   (C)   Tax imposed. A tax is hereby imposed upon any and all of the following
acts or privileges effective for all gross charges billed by telecommunications
retailers on and after July 1, 2012:
      (1)   The act or privilege of originating in the village or receiving in
the village intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of 6% of the
gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a retailer.
To prevent actual multimunicipal taxation of the act or privilege that is
subject to taxation under this division (C)(1), any taxpayer, upon proof that
the taxpayer has paid a tax in another municipality on that event, shall be
allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this
division (C) to the extent of the amount of the tax properly due and paid in
the municipality that was not previously allowed as a credit against any other
municipal tax;
      (2)   The act or privilege of originating in the village or receiving in
the village interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of 6% of the
gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a retailer.
To present actual multistate or multimunicipal taxation of the act or privilege
that is subject to taxation under this division (C)(2), any taxpayer, upon
proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another state or municipality in this
state on such event, shall be allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant
to or authorized by this division (C) to the extent of the amount of such tax
properly due and paid in such other state or such tax properly due and paid in
a municipality in this state which was not previously allowed as a credit
against any other state or local tax in this state; and
      (3)   The tax imposed by this division (C) is not imposed on such act or
privilege to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the constitution
and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the
municipality.
(Prior Code, § 1-7D-3)
   (D)   Collection of tax by retailers.
      (1)   The tax authorized by this section shall be collected from the
taxpayer by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and shall
be remitted by such retailer to the Department. Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this section and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect
the tax from the taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in
the manner prescribed by the Department. The tax authorized by this section
shall constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid, and, if
unpaid, is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for
such sale at retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the
taxpayer, then the taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the
Department in the manner provided by the Department.
      (2)   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this section shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications.
(Prior Code, § 1-7D-4)
   (E)   Returns to Department. On or before August 31, 2012, and on or before
the last day of every month thereafter, the tax imposed under this section on
telecommunications retailers shall be returned with appropriate forms and
information as required by the Department pursuant to the State Simplified
Municipal Telecommunications Tax Act and any accompanying rules and regulations
created by the Department to implement this Act.
(Prior Code, § 1-7D-5)
   (F)   Resellers.
      (1)   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to
be a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
Department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the Department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this section on any of such purposes and shall furnish such additional
information as the Department may reasonably require.
      (2)   Upon approval of the application, the Department shall assign a
resale number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant.
The Department may cancel any number which is obtained through
misrepresentation, or which is used to send or receive such telecommunications
tax free when such actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer
applies because of the person’s having discontinued the making of resales.
      (3)   Except as provided hereinabove in this division (F), the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications in this state shall
not be made tax free on the ground of being a sale for resale unless the person
has an active resale number from the Department and furnishes that number to
the retailer in connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to
such person is nontaxable because of being a sale for resale.
(Prior Code, § 1-7D-6)
(Ord. 720, passed 5-5-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.078 CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Tax imposed; rate.
      (1)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, being 410 ILCS 130, at retail in the
village at the rate of 3% of the gross receipts from these sales made in the
course of that business.
      (2)   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
65 ILCS 5/8-11-23.
   (B)   Collection of tax by retailers. The tax imposed by this section shall
be remitted by such retailer to the State Department of Revenue (Department).
Any tax required to be collected pursuant to or as authorized by this section
and any such tax collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the
Department shall constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers
may reimburse themselves for their seller’s tax liability hereunder by
separately stating that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated
in combination, in a single amount, with any state tax that sellers are
required to collect.
(Ord. 2019-11-B, passed 9-26-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 35.079 MUNICIPAL GROCERY RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX AND MUNICIPAL GROCERY
SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX.
   (A)   Municipal Grocery Retailers' Occupation Tax Imposed. A tax is hereby
imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling groceries at retail
in this municipality at the rate of one percent (1%) of the gross receipts from
such sales made in the course of such business while this chapter is in effect.
The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and subject to the provisions
of Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24).
   (B)   Municipal Grocery Service Occupation Tax. A tax is hereby imposed upon
all persons engaged in this municipality in the business of making sales of
service, who, as an incident to making those sales of service, transfer
groceries as an incident to a sale of service. The rate of this tax shall be
the same rate identified in Division (A), above. The imposition of this tax is
in accordance with and subject to the provisions of Section 8-11-24 of the
Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24).
   (C)   Illinois Department of Revenue to Administer Both Taxes. The taxes
hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an incident
thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department of Revenue of the
State of Illinois. The Illinois Department of Revenue shall have full power to
administer and enforce the provisions of this section.
   (D)   Clerk to file Ordinance with Illinois Department of Revenue. As
required under Section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-
24), the Clerk is hereby directed to file a certified copy of this chapter with
the Illinois Department of Revenue on or before April 1, 2025.
   (E)   Effective Date. The taxes imposed by this chapter shall take effect on
the later of:
      (1)   January 1, 2026;
      (2)   The first day of July next following the adoption and filing of
this chapter with the Department of Revenue, if filed on or before the
preceding April 1; or
      (3)   The first day of January next following the adoption and filing of
this chapter with the Department of Revenue, if filed on or before the
preceding October 1.
(Ord. 2024-15, 12-2-2024)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   COMBINED WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM
      
51.   CABLE SERVICE
CHAPTER 50: COMBINED WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Combination of water and sewer systems
   
50.02   Water and sewer reports
   
50.03   Regulations regarding water connections
   
50.04   Potable water
Sewer Regulations
   
50.15   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
50.16   Use of public sewers required
   
50.17   Building sewers and connections
   
50.18   Public sewer use restrictions and requirements
   
50.19   Discharge of sewage into storm sewers prohibited
   
50.20   Protection of sewage works from damage
   
50.21   Notice of violation; remedial action
Cross-Connections
   
50.35   Definitions
   
50.36   Authority
   
50.37   General (technical) requirements
   
50.38   Protection against backflow and back-siphonage
   
50.39   Maintenance requirements
   
50.40   Specifications; tables
   
50.41   Notice of violation; remedial action
Rates and Charges
   
50.55   Endorsements on bank accounts
   
50.56   Owner and occupant liable for charges
   
50.57   Water and sewer line extensions
   
50.58   Connection charges
   
50.59   Water deposit; refund conditions
   
50.60   Service rates and charges; billings
   
50.61   Billing and delinquency procedures
   
50.62   Disconnect service for nonpayment; notice; charges; recitals
   
50.63   Multiple hookups
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 COMBINATION OF WATER AND SEWER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Systems combined. The existing waterworks system in its entirety,
together with all additions, improvements, and extensions thereto that may
hereafter be made, and the sanitary sewerage system in its entirety as it is to
be acquired, together with all additions, improvements, and extensions thereto
that may hereafter be made, of the village are hereby declared to be a combined
system, and said combined waterworks and sewerage system shall be maintained
and operated as a single utility. A charge or rate shall be established for the
use of such combined system, which shall be reasonable and commensurate with
the service performed by said combined system, and shall be sufficient to
maintain, operate, and provide an adequate Depreciation Fund and pay the
principal and interest on any revenue bonds which may be issued, which by their
terms are made payable from the revenues of such combined system.
   (B)   Properties described. All property, real, personal, and mixed,
comprising the now-existing waterworks system and sanitary sewerage system, as
in the preamble to Ord. 274 on file in the office of the Village Clerk more
fully describes, is hereby found, determined, and declared to constitute the
properties of the combined waterworks and sewerage system of the village.
   (C)   Operation as combined utility. From and after the effective date of
this section, said existing waterworks system and said sanitary sewerage system
shall be owned and operated by the village as a combined utility, and all
improvements and extensions to said waterworks or sewerage system, either or
both, shall be considered as improvements and extensions to said combined
utility; and all the properties, assets, obligations, and liabilities, of all
kinds, of said waterworks system and of said sanitary sewerage system existing,
outstanding, and accruing or to accrue, shall be held, used, confessed, and
acknowledged as the properties, assets, obligations, and liabilities of said
combined utility.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-1) (Ord. 274, passed 6-18-1962)
§ 50.02 WATER AND SEWER REPORTS.
   (A)   Filing on timely basis.
      (1)   The person in charge of the municipal sewer system shall prepare
and sign all reports required by law on a timely basis and have said reports
ready for filing at the proper time.
      (2)   The person in charge of the municipal water system shall prepare
and sign all reports required by law on a timely basis and have said reports
ready for filing at the proper time.
   (B)   Signature of Mayor or Board member required.
      (1)   All sewer and water reports shall be presented to the Mayor on a
regular basis to be countersigned by the Mayor.
      (2)   In the absence of the Mayor through illness, vacation, or some
other reason that the Mayor is absent from the village at the time the report
is required to be signed, then a member of the Board of Trustees, so designated
as an authorized agent of the Board, shall sign said reports in place of the
Mayor.
      (3)   No report shall be submitted to the State Environmental Protection
Agency without first being countersigned by the Mayor or by its authorized
representative, as established by the Mayor and the Board of Trustees.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-2) (Ord. 466, passed 11-4-1985)
§ 50.03 REGULATIONS REGARDING WATER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly, maliciously,
wilfully, or recklessly break, damage, destroy, tamper with, apply any tools
to, or interfere with the operation of any water line equipment, water meter,
its appurtenances and attachments or structures of the village water system.
      (2)   Any person doing so without authority from the Public Works Manager
shall be guilty of an offense.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect water service to the
customer’s or owner’s premises without authority from the Public Works Manager.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-13) (Ord. 729, passed 10-1-2012) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 POTABLE WATER.
   (A)   Usage. Except for such use or methods in existence before the
effective date hereof, the use or attempt to use as a potable water supply
ground water from within the corporate limits of the village by the
installation or drilling of wells or by any other method is hereby prohibited,
including at points of withdrawal by the village.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-1)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
limited liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company,
trust, estate, political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents, or assigns.
      POTABLE WATER. Any water used for human or domestic consumption
including, but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming,
washing dishes, or preparing foods.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-3)
(Ord. 632, passed 8-2-2004) Penalty, see §
50.99
SEWER REGULATIONS
§ 50.15 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   Inspection, sampling, and testing authorized.
      (1)   The Public Works Manager and other duly authorized employees of the
village, and representatives of state and federal EPA agencies bearing proper
credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   The Public Works Manager, or his or her representatives, shall have
no authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical,
oil, refining, ceramic, paper, or other industries, beyond that point having a
direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewers or waterways
or facilities for waste treatment.
   (B)   Observe safety rules; liability for damage or injury. While performing
the necessary work on private properties referred to in division (A) above, the
Public Works Manager or duly authorized employees of the village, the State
Environmental Protection Agency, and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
company, and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
village employees, and the village shall indemnify the company against loss or
damage to its property by the village employees and against damage asserted
against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation,
except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to
maintain safe conditions as required in §
50.17(E).
   (C)   Right of entry. The Public Works Manager and other duly authorized
employees of the village bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all private properties through which the village holds a
duly negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if
any, on said easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-1) (Ord. 452, passed 7-11-1984)
§ 50.16 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Garbage deposits prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to
place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or
private property within the village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of
the village, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable
waste.
   (B)   Discharge sewage to natural outlets. It shall be unlawful to discharge
to any natural outlet within the village, or in any area under the jurisdiction
of the village, any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable
treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this
subchapter.
   (C)   Privies and septic tanks. Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be
unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank,
cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   Connection to public sewer mandatory. The owner of all houses,
buildings, or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or
other purposes situated within the village and abutting on any street, alley,
or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in the future be located a
public sanitary or combined sewer of the village is hereby required, at his or
her expense, to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, within 30 days after the date of official notice to
do so; provided, that said public sewer is within 100 feet of the property
line.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-2) (Ord. 452, passed 7-11-1984) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.17 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Public sewer connection or repair; permit required. No unauthorized
persons shall uncover, make any connections with or openings into, use, alter,
disturb, install, or repair the public sewer, or appurtenances thereof, without
first obtaining a written permit from the village.
   (B)   Discharges to comply with federal standards. All disposal by any
person into the sewer system is unlawful except those discharges in compliance
with federal standards promulgated pursuant to the federal act and more
stringent state and local standards.
   (C)   Classes of building sewer permits; fees.
      (1)   Classes. There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   Application; supplementary documents. In either case, the owner or
his or her agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the
village. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of
the Public Works Manager.
      (3)   Provide information. The industry, as a condition of such permit
authorization, must provide information describing its wastewater constituents,
characteristics, quantity of flow, and type of activity.
   (D)   Proof of system capacity. A building sewer permit will only be issued
and a sewer connection shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated that the
downstream sewerage facilities, including sewers, pump stations, and wastewater
treatment facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately and
efficiently handle the additional anticipated waste load.
   (E)   Construction borne by owner; liability. All costs and expenses
incident to the installation and connection of the building sewer shall be
borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the village from any loss or
damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the
building sewer and the maintenance of said sewer.
   (F)   Separate connection for each building; exception. A separate and
independent building sewer shall be provided for every building, and a separate
permit and inspection fee charged for each; except that where one building
stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is
available or can be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining
alley, court, yard, or driveway, the building sewer from the front building may
be extended to the rear building, provided a suitable cleanout is installed at
the junction of the two sewers, and the whole considered as one building sewer.
   (G)   Old building sewers. Old building sewers may be used in connection
with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test by the
Public Works Manager, to meet all requirements of this subchapter.
   (H)   Conformance with building and plumbing codes.
      (1)   Construction. The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction
of a building sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the
pipe, jointing, testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the
requirements of the building and plumbing codes and other applicable rules and
regulations of the village and the requirements of the State Environmental
Protection Agency. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification
thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications
of the American Society for Testing and Materials, Water Pollution Control
Federal Manual of Practice No. 9, and standard specifications for water and
sewer main construction in the state shall apply.
      (2)   Connection. The connection of the building sewer into the public
sewer shall conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing codes, or
other applicable rules and regulations of the village, or the procedures set
forth in appropriate specifications of the American Society for Testing and
Materials, Water Pollution Control Federal Manual of Practice No. 9, and
standard specifications for water and sewer main construction in the state. All
such connections shall be made gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the Public Works
Manager before installation.
   (I)   Building drains. Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be
brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all
buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the
public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by
a means which is approved in accordance with division (B) above, and discharged
to the building sewer.
   (J)   Drainage of roof runoff and ground water to public sewer prohibited.
No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation
drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (K)   Inspection before connection to public sewer. The applicant for a
residential or industrial sewer permit shall notify the Public Works Manager
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Public Works
Manager or his or her representative.
   (L)   Excavations.
      (1)   Barricades and lights required. All excavations for building sewer
installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to
protect the public from hazard.
      (2)   Bond. Persons making excavations for sewer installation on public
property shall post a $15,000 bond prior to making such excavations.
      (3)   Restoration of streets and sidewalks. Streets, sidewalks, parkways,
and other public property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored
in a manner satisfactory to the village.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-4) (Ord. 452, passed 7-11-1984) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.18 PUBLIC SEWER USE RESTRICTIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Prohibited discharges.
      (1)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any storm
water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage,
uncontaminated cooling water, or water from any private well or private water
system, or unpolluted industrial process waters, to any sanitary sewer.
      (2)   (a)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be
discharged to such sewers as are specifically designed as combined sewers or
storm sewers, or to a natural outlet approved by the Public Works Manager
         (b)   Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters may not be
discharged into the sanitary sewer system.
      (3)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
         (a)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
         (b)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids,
liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with
other wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create
any hazard in the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
         (c)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than five and one-half or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works; and
         (d)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size
capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference
with the proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to,
ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
      (4)   No industrial user may discharge sewage into any public sewer until
the village has adopted an industrial cost recovery system which:
         (a)   Meets the requirements of § 204(b)(1)(B) of the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act amendments of 1972 and applicable federal regulations;
and
         (b)   Has been approved by the agency in accordance with the
conditions of any grant made to the village by the United States Environmental
Protection Agency or by the state for the construction of any part of the sewer
system or sewage treatment works of the village.
      (5)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely, in the
opinion of the Public Works Manager, that such wastes can harm either the
sewers, sewage treatment process, or equipment; have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or
constitute a nuisance. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of
these wastes, the Public Works Manager will give consideration to such factors
as the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the
sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and maximum limits established by
regulatory agencies. The substances prohibited are:
         (a)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F
(65°C);
         (b)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances
which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F
(0°C and 65°C);
         (c)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The
installation and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of
three-fourths horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Public Works Manager;
         (d)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling
wastes, or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not;
         (e)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Public Works Manager for such materials;
         (f)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste- or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Public Works Manager as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal, or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters;
         (g)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Public Works Manager in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
         (h)   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of nine and one-half;
         (i)   Any mercury or any of its components in excess of five ten-
thousandths mg/l as Hg at any time except as permitted by the Public Works
Manager in compliance with applicable state and federal regulations;
         (j)   Any cyanide in excess of 25-thousandths mg/l at any time except
as permitted by the Public Works Manager in compliance with applicable state
and federal regulations;
         (k)   Materials which exert or cause:
            1.   Unusual concentrations of inert, suspended solids (such as,
but not limited to, fuller’s earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
            2.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions);
            3.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements,
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
            4.   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes
constituting “slugs” as defined herein.
         (l)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
   (B)   Authority of Public Works Manager regarding injurious discharges.
      (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in division (A)(5) above, and/or which are in
violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in Chapter 1, EPA Rules
and Regulations subchapter D, Water Programs part 128 pretreatment standards,
Federal Register Volume 38, No. 215, Thursday, November 8, 1973, and any
amendments thereto, and which, in the judgment of the Public Works Manager,
have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or
receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a
public nuisance, the Public Works Manager may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and
treating the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the
provisions of division (G) below.
      (2)   If the Public Works Manager permits the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plans and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the Public Works
Manager and subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances,
and laws.
   (C)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors.
      (1)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Public Works Manager, they are necessary for the proper handling
of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable
wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors
shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Public Works Manager and shall
be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
      (2)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
They shall be of substantial construction, watertight, and equipped with easily
removable covers which when bolted in place shall be gastight and watertight.
Where installed, all grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be maintained by
the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient operation at all
times.
   (D)   Maintenance of facilities. Where preliminary treatment or flow-
equalizing facilities are provided, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (E)   Control manhole required.
      (1)   Installation. Each industry shall be required to install a control
manhole and, when required by the Public Works Manager, the owner of any
property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install
a suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes.
      (2)   Location. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessible and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Public Works Manager.
      (3)   Expense borne by owner. The manhole shall be installed by the owner
at his or her expense and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe
and accessible at all times.
   (F)   Measurements, tests, and analyses.
      (1)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this subchapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the village or regulatory agencies
having jurisdiction over the discharge.
      (2)   The number, type, and frequency of laboratory analyses to be
performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the village, but not less than
once per year, the industry must supply a complete analysis of the constituents
of the wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the federal, state,
and local standards are being met. The owner shall report the results of
measurements and laboratory analyses to the village at such times and in such
manner as prescribed by the village. The owner shall bear the expense of all
measurements, analyses, and reporting required by the village. At such times as
deemed necessary, the village reserves the right to take measurements and
samples for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
      (3)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater published by the American Public Health
Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon
suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special
manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the
nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily
accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works
and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and property. (The
particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all
outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab bag sample or samples
should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses
are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls whereas pHs are determined
from periodic grab samples.)
   (G)   Special agreements. No statement contained in this section shall be
construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the
village and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual
strength or character may be accepted by the village for treatment, subject to
payment therefor, by the industrial concern, provided such payments are in
accordance with federal and state guidelines for user charge systems.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-5) (Ord. 452, passed 7-11-1984) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.19 DISCHARGE OF SEWAGE INTO STORM SEWERS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be discharged
any sanitary sewerage or industrial waste into any part of the storm sewer
system in the village.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-6) (Ord. 308, passed 4-19-1967) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.20 PROTECTION OF SEWAGE WORKS FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall knowingly, maliciously, willfully, or
recklessly break, damage, destroy, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is a part of the sewage works.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-7) (Ord. 452, passed 7-11-1984) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.21 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; REMEDIAL ACTION.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this subchapter,
except §
50.21 hereof, shall be served by the village with written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof.
   (B)   The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations. The village may revoke any permit for sewage
disposal as a result of any violation of any provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-8) (Ord. 452, passed 7-11-1984) Penalty, see §
50.99
CROSS-CONNECTIONS
§ 50.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free atmosphere
between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water to a tank,
plumbing fixture, or other device and the flood-level rim of the receptacle.
   APPROVED. Accepted by the Municipal Water and Sewer Department as meeting an
application specification stated or cited in this subchapter, or as suitable
for the proposed use.
   AUXILIARY SUPPLY. Any water source or system other than the potable water
supply that may be available in the building or premises.
   BACK-SIPHONAGE. Backflow resulting from negative pressures in the
distributing pipes of a potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances into
the distributing pipes of a potable supply of water from any source or sources
other than its intended source. Back-siphonage is one type of BACKFLOW.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTER. A device or means to prevent backflow.
   CHECK VALVE. A self-closing device which is designed to permit the flow of
fluids in one direction and to close if there is a reversal of flow.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection between a potable water supply and
any unapproved source or system through which backflow can occur. Furthermore,
it is any potable water supply outlet which is submerged or can be submerged in
wastewater and/or any other source of contamination. See definitions of
BACKFLOW and BACK-SIPHONAGE.
   DRAIN. Any pipe that carries wastewater or waterborne wastes in a building
drainage system.
   FIXTURE, PLUMBING. Installed receptacles, devices, or appliances supplied
with water or that receive or discharge liquids or liquid-borne wastes.
   FLOOD-LEVEL RIM. The edge of the receptacle from which water overflows.
   HAZARD, HEALTH.
      (1)   Any conditions, devices, or practices in the water supply system
and its operation which create, or, in the judgment of the Public Works
Manager, may create, a danger to the health and well-being of the water
consumer.
      (2)   An example of a HEALTH HAZARD is a structural defect in the water
supply system, whether of location, design, or construction, that regularly or
occasionally may prevent satisfactory treatment of the water supply or cause it
to be polluted from extraneous sources.
   HAZARD, PLUMBING. Any arrangement of plumbing including piping and fixtures
whereby a cross-connection is created.
   HYDROPNEUMATIC TANK. A pressure vessel in which air pressure acts upon the
surface of the water contained within the vessel, pressurizing the water
distribution piping connected to the vessel.
   MANAGER. The Public Works Manager of the village.
   OUTLET. The open end of the water supply pipe through which the water is
discharged into the plumbing fixture.
   PLUMBING SYSTEM. Includes the water supply and distribution pipes, plumbing
fixtures, and traps; soil, waste, and vent pipes; building drains and building
sewers, including their respective connections, devices, and appurtenances
within the property lines of the premises; and water-treating or water-using
equipment.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological, or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as
to constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTER. An assembly of differential
valves and check valves, including an automatically opened spillage port to the
atmosphere designed to prevent backflow.
   SURGE TANK. The receiving, nonpressure vessel forming part of the air gap
separation between a potable and an auxiliary supply.
   VACUUM. Any pressure less than that exerted by the atmosphere.
   VACUUM BREAKER, NONPRESSURE TYPE. A vacuum breaker designed so as not to be
subjected to static line pressure.
   VACUUM BREAKER, PRESSURE TYPE. A vacuum breaker designed to operate under
conditions of static line pressure.
   WATER AND SEWER DEPARTMENT. The Village Water and Sewer Department.
   WATER, NONPOTABLE. Water that is not safe for human consumption or that is
of questionable potability.
   WATER, POTABLE. Water free from contaminants in amounts sufficient to cause
disease or harmful physiological effects. Its bacteriological and chemical
quality shall conform to the requirements of the federal and state drinking
water regulations and to any regulations of the public health authority having
local jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-1) (Ord. 428, passed 7-1-1982)
§ 50.36 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Responsibility of Manager.
      (1)   The Public Works Manager, or his or her designated agent, shall
inspect the plumbing in every building or premises in the village as frequently
as, in his or her judgment, may be necessary to ensure that such plumbing has
been installed in such a manner as to prevent the possibility of pollution of
the water supply of the village by the plumbing.
      (2)   The said Manager shall notify or cause to be notified in writing
the owner or authorized agent of the owner of any such building or premises, to
correct, within a reasonable time set by the said Manager, any plumbing
installed or existing contrary to or in violation of this chapter, and which,
in his or her judgment, may therefore permit the pollution of the village water
supply, or otherwise adversely affect the public health.
   (B)   Inspection; right of entry.
      (1)   The Public Works Manager, or his or her designated agent, shall
have the right of entry into any building, during reasonable hours, for the
purpose of making inspection of the plumbing systems installed in such building
or premises; provided, that with respect to the inspection of any single-family
dwelling, consent to such inspection shall first be obtained from a person of
suitable age and discretion therein or in control thereof.
      (2)   Consistent refusal to allow inspection of a specific dwelling may
be cause for requiring installation of suitable backflow protection or
discontinuation of potable water service.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-2) (Ord. 428, passed 7-1-1982)
§ 50.37 GENERAL (TECHNICAL) REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General. A potable water supply system shall be designed, installed,
and maintained in such manner as to prevent contamination from nonpotable
liquids, solids, or gases from being introduced into the potable water supply
through cross-connections or any other piping connections to the system.
   (B)   Cross-connections prohibited. Cross-connections between potable water
systems and other systems or equipment containing water or other substances of
unknown or questionable quality are prohibited except when and where, as
approved by the Municipal Water and Sewer Department, suitable protective
devices such as the reduced pressure zone backflow preventer or equal are
installed, tested, and maintained to ensure proper operation on a continuing
basis.
   (C)   Interconnections. Interconnection between two or more public water
supplies shall be permitted only with the approval of the state authority
having jurisdiction.
   (D)   Auxiliary supply. When an auxiliary supply of water is used in
addition to the potable water supply, exposed auxiliary supply and potable
water supply piping shall be identified by distinguishing colors or tags and so
maintained that each pipe may be traced readily in its entirety.
   (E)   Individual water supplies. Cross-connections between an individual
water supply and a potable public supply shall not be made unless specifically
approved by the Municipal Water and Sewer Department.
   (F)   Connections to boilers. Potable water connections to boilers shall be
made through an air gap or provided with an approved backflow preventer.
   (G)   Prohibited connections to fixtures and equipment.
      (1)   Connection to the potable water supply system is prohibited unless
protected against backflow in accordance with §
50.38, or as set out herein.
      (2)   Examples of fixtures and equipment from which the potable water
supply system must be protected include:
         (a)   Bidets;
         (b)   Operating, dissection, embalming, and mortuary tables or similar
equipment. In such installation, the hose used for water supply shall terminate
at least 12 inches away from every point of the table or attachments;
         (c)   Pumps for nonpotable water, chemicals, or other substances.
Priming connections may be made only through an air gap; and
         (d)   Building drainage, sewer, or vent systems.
   (H)   Refrigerating unit condensers and cooling jackets.
      (1)   Except where potable water provided for a refrigerator condenser or
cooling jacket is entirely outside the piping or tank containing the toxic
refrigerant, the inlet connection shall be provided with an approved check
valve.
      (2)   Also adjacent to and at the outlet side of the check valve, an
approved pressure relief valve set to relieve at five psi above the maximum
water pressure at the point of installation shall be provided if the
refrigeration units contain more than 20 pounds of refrigerants.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-3) (Ord. 428, passed 7-1-1982) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.38 PROTECTION AGAINST BACKFLOW AND BACK-SIPHONAGE.
   (A)   Water outlets. A potable water system shall be protected against
backflow and back-siphonage by providing and maintaining at each outlet:
      (1)   An air gap, as specified in division (B) below, between the potable
water outlet and the flood-level rim of the fixture it supplies or between the
outlet and any other source of contamination; or
      (2)   An approved device or means to prevent backflow.
   (B)   Minimum required air gap.
      (1)   Measuring method. The minimum required air gap shall be measured
vertically from the lowest end of a potable water outlet to the flood rim or
line of the fixture or receptacle into which it discharges.
      (2)   Size. The minimum required air gap shall be twice the effective
opening of a potable water outlet unless the outlet is a distance less than
three times the effective opening away from a wall or similar vertical surface,
in which cases, the minimum required air gap shall be three times the effective
opening of the outlet. In no case shall the minimum required air gap be less
than as specified hereinafter in §
50.40(A).
   (C)   Installation of devices.
      (1)   Nonpressure type vacuum breakers.
         (a)   Atmospheric vacuum breakers shall be installed with the critical
level at least six inches above the flood-level rim of the fixture they serve
and on the discharge side of the last control valve to the fixture. No shutoff
valve or faucet shall be installed beyond the vacuum breaker.
         (b)   For closed equipment or vessels such as pressure sterilizers,
the top of the vessel shall be treated as the flood-level rim, but a check
valve shall be installed on the discharge side of the vacuum breaker.
      (2)   Reduced pressure principle backflow preventer. A reduced pressure
principle type backflow preventer may be installed subject to full static
pressure.
      (3)   Devices of all types. Backflow and back-siphonage preventing
devices shall be accessibly located, preferably in the same room with the
fixture they serve. Installation in utility or service spaces, provided they
are readily accessible, is also permitted.
   (D)   Tanks and vats; below rim supply.
      (1)   Where a potable water outlet terminates below the rim of a tank or
vat and the tank or vat has an diameter of overflow not less than that given in
the table set out in §
50.40(B), the overflow pipe shall be provided with an air gap as close to the
tank as possible.
      (2)   (a)   The potable water outlet to the tank or vat shall terminate a
distance not less than one and one-half times the height to which water can
rise in the tank above the top of the overflow.
         (b)   This level shall be established at the maximum flow rate of the
supply to the tank or vat and with all outlets except the air gap overflow
outlet closed.
         (c)   The distance from the outlet to the high water level shall be
measured from the critical point of the potable water supply out.
   (E)   Protective devices required. Approved devices to protect against
backflow and back-siphonage shall be installed at all fixtures and equipment
where backflow and/or back-siphonage may occur and, where a minimum air gap
cannot be provided, between the water outlet to the fixture or equipment and
its flood-level rim.
      (1)   Connections not subject to backpressure. Where a water connection
is not subject to backpressure, a vacuum breaker shall be installed on the
discharge side of the last valve on the line serving the fixture or equipment.
      (2)   Connections subject to backpressure. Where a potable water
connection is made to a line, fixture, tank, vat, pump, or other equipment with
a hazard of backflow or back-siphonage where the water connection is subject to
backpressure, and an air gap cannot be installed, the Manager will require
adequate protection, which may include the use of an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow preventer.
   (F)   Low pressure cutoff required on booster pumps. When a booster pump is
used on a water pressure booster system and the possibility exists that a
positive pressure of less than 20 psi may occur on the suction side of the
pump, there shall be installed a low pressure cutoff on the booster pump to
prevent the creation of a vacuum or negative pressure on the suction side of
the pump, thus cutting off water to other outlets.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-4) (Ord. 428, passed 7-1-1982) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.39 MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General requirements. It shall be the responsibility of building and
premises owners to maintain all backflow preventers and vacuum breakers within
the building or on the premises in good working order and to make no piping or
other arrangements for the purpose of bypassing backflow devices.
   (B)   Backflow preventers.
      (1)   (a)   Periodic testing and inspection schedules shall be
established by the Manager for all backflow preventers and the interval between
such testing and inspections and overhauls of each device shall be established
in accordance with the age and condition of the device.
         (b)   Inspection intervals shall not exceed one year, and overhaul
intervals shall not exceed five years.
      (2)   (a)   These devices shall be inspected frequently after the initial
installation to assure that they have been installed properly and that debris
resulting from the installation has not interfered with the functioning of the
device.
         (b)   The testing procedures shall be in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions when approved by the Manager.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-5) (Ord. 428, passed 7-1-1982) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.40 SPECIFICATIONS; TABLES.
   (A)   Table specifying minimum air gaps for generally used plumbing
fixtures.
        Minimum Air Gap
Fixture When Not Affected by Near Wall  When Affected by Near Wall (Inches)**
        (Inches)*
                         Minimum Air Gap
Fixture                  When Not Affected by    When Affected by Near Wall
                         Near Wall (Inches)*     (Inches)**
Drinking water
fountains, single
orifice 0.437-inch
diameter or multiple     1                       1.5
orifices having total
area of 0.150 square
inch (area of 0.437-inch
diameter)
Effective openings       (See notes to table)*** (See notes to table)****
greater than one inch
Lavatories and other
fixtures with effective
openings not greater     1                       1.5
than one-half inch
diameter
Over-rim bath fillers
and other fixtures with
effective openings not   2                       3
greater than one-inch
diameter
Sinks, laundry trays,
goose-neck bath faucets,
and other fixtures with  1.5                     2.25
effective openings not
greater than three-
fourths inch diameter
Notes to table:
*      Side walls, ribs, or similar obstructions do not affect air gaps when
spaced from inside edge of spout opening a distance greater than three times
the diameter of the effective opening for a single wall, or a distance greater
than four times the diameter of the effective opening for two intersecting
walls.
**      Vertical walls, ribs, or similar obstructions extending from the water
surface to or above the horizontal plane of the spout opening require a
greater air gap when spaced closer to the nearest inside edge of spout opening
than specified in Note 1 above. The effect of three or more such vertical
walls or ribs has not been determined. In such cases, the air gap shall be
measured from the top of the wall.
***      Two times the diameter of effective opening.
****   Three times the diameter of effective opening.
 
   (B)   Table specifying the maximum capacity of the water supply line to the
tank.
Maximum Capacity of Water Supply Line to Diameter of Overflow Pipe (Inches ID)
Tank
Maximum Capacity of Water Supply Line to Diameter of Overflow Pipe (Inches ID)
Tank
0-50 gpm                                 2
50-100 gpm                               2.5
100-200 gpm                              3
200-400 gpm                              4
400-700 gpm                              5
700-1,000 gpm                            6
Over 1,000 gpm                           8
 
(Prior Code, § 8-4-6) (Ord. 428, passed 7-1982) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.41 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; REMEDIAL ACTION.
   (A)   Notify owner. The Manager shall notify the owner, or the authorized
agent of the owner, of the building or premises in which there is found a
violation of this subchapter of such violation.
   (B)   Set time for correction of violation. The Manager shall set a
reasonable time for the owner to have the violation removed or corrected. The
time set shall be contingent upon the degree of hazard involved and include the
time required to obtain and install equipment.
   (C)   Village approval required. The owner shall obtain written approval
from the Village Water and Sewer Department of any proposed corrective action
or protective device before proceeding with such corrective action or
installing and using any protective device.
   (D)   Failure to correct defect. Upon failure of the owner to have the
defect corrected by the end of the specified time, the Manager may, if, in his
or her judgment, an imminent health hazard exists, cause the water service to
the building or premises to be terminated, and/or recommend such additional
fines or penalties to be invoked as herein may be provided.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-7) (Ord. 428, passed 7-1-1982) Penalty, see §
50.99
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.55 ENDORSEMENTS ON BANK ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Checking accounts and checks. The Mayor, the Village Clerk, and the
Village Treasurer shall sign the signature cards on all other checking
accounts, and all checks drawn on said accounts shall require a minimum of two
of the three signatures of the forenamed persons.
   (B)   Certificates of deposit and savings accounts. The Mayor, the Village
Clerk, and the Village Treasurer shall sign all signature cards for
certificates of deposit and savings accounts, and it shall require a minimum of
two signatures of the forenamed three persons in all banking transactions
pertaining to said certificates of deposit or savings accounts.
   (C)   Safe deposit box. Any of the following may enter the safe deposit box
of the Water and Sewer Department:
      (1)   Mayor;
      (2)   Village Clerk; and
      (3)   Village Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-3) (Ord. 446, passed 1-3-1984)
§ 50.56 OWNER AND OCCUPANT LIABLE FOR CHARGES.
   (A)   The owner of the premises and the occupant thereof and the user of
either the water or sewerage service, or both water and sewerage services,
shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for the service on said premises,
and the service is furnished to the premises only upon the condition that the
owner of the premises, occupant, and user of the service are jointly and
severally liable therefor to the village. No water or sewer service shall be
furnished to a residence until all delinquent charges are paid in full.
   (B)   The owner, occupant, and/or user of services shall all be required to
sign any application for water and/or sewer service to the subject premises.
The village shall only be required to advise those parties signing the
application as to when the monthly billing is delinquent and when service is
terminated. The village shall not be required to make any investigation as to
the ownership, occupancy, or the identification of the user of water and/or
sewer service at a property in the village water and/or sewer service area.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-4) (Ord. 671, passed 9-8-2008)
§ 50.57 WATER AND SEWER LINE EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   Water lines.
      (1)   Extension of all future water lines in the village shall be
installed at the expense of the developer developing any subdivision within or
without the corporate limits of the village.
      (2)   All such water lines shall be dedicated to the village together
with the easements in which said water lines are installed in order that said
lines and easements may be maintained by the village.
      (3)   All costs of securing easements, planning, platting, and installing
said water lines shall be borne by the developer developing any subdivision as
mentioned in division (A)(1) above.
      (4)   The village shall install all water meters and charge a tap-on fee
therefor.
   (B)   Sewer lines.
      (1)   Developer expense. All sewer lines installed in any subdivision
within or without the corporate limits of the village shall be installed at the
expense of the developer of the subdivision.
      (2)   Property of village. All sewer lines installed by a developer in
any subdivision within or without the corporate limits of the village which are
connected to the municipal sewer system shall become the property of the
village together with any easements in which said sewer lines may be situated
in order that the village may maintain said lines.
      (3)   Inspections. The village shall inspect all connections to the
municipal sewer system, and a tap-on fee and inspection fee shall be charged
for each connection.
      (4)   Permit required. Any contractor/homeowner connecting to the sewer
service of the village shall be required to obtain a permit, which shall be
issued for tracking purposes. The charge for said permit shall be $25. Any
person failing to comply with the terms of this division (B)(4) shall be
subject to the fine stated in §
50.58(B)(1).
      (5)   Permit forms. The permit forms shall be available at the Water and
Sewer Department office of the village, and the Public Works Manager shall be
empowered to approve or disapprove said permit.
   (C)   Fireplugs required. Any developer subdividing a tract of land within
the corporate limits of the village shall provide fireplugs within said
subdivision. The village shall have the right at the time of examining plans
for the water distribution lines to require fireplugs in an adequate number to
provide reasonable fire protection to the residents of the subdivision, the
number of fireplugs to be determined by the Engineer retained from time to time
by the village to represent its interests. The Village Engineer’s decision
shall be final and binding on the developer.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-5) (Ord. 348, passed 5-1-1972; Ord. 659, passed 5-7-2007)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.58 CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   Water connections.
      (1)   Regular residential. The fee to be charged for each individual
firm, corporation, or other entity shall be $1,800 per water connection for a
regular residential-type connection; subject to the provision, however, that in
the event a developer develops a new subdivision and assumes and pays all the
charges for the installation of the improvements such as streets, the water
lines, and other costs in the development of the new subdivision, the water
tap-on fee shall be waived for those houses that are added to the system in the
new subdivision.
      (2)   Commercial operations. The water connection fee for commercial
operations may be determined by the Public Works Manager; said determination to
be based upon the labor and materials used to make said water connection, and a
reasonable percentage of profit. Under no circumstances shall said water
connection fee be less than $2,300.
      (3)   Water service line installation. The village shall install a water
service line from the municipal water main to the property line of the water
user; except that, in no event shall the village install more than 60 feet of
water service line from the main. In the event the property line of the user is
more than 60 feet from the water main, the property owner shall be responsible
for the installation of such additional water line.
   (B)   Sewer connections.
      (1)   Installation charges. The following charges are hereby established
in connection with installation of sewer connections in the village.
         (a)   A $1,000 bond shall be paid for digging in village streets.
         (b)   A $500 bond shall be paid if no village streets are involved,
but damage occurs in village-owned property such as sidewalks and ditches.
         (c)   A $500 charge shall be assessed against any contractor/homeowner
who digs in the village streets, although such installer did not originally
intend to do so. Said $500 assessment shall be paid before the sewer
installation is approved.
         (d)   The bond shall be used to cover the cost of any street repair or
ditch work in the event the installer fails to do so.
         (e)   All bonds must be in the form of a cashier’s check or money
order. No cash or personal checks shall be accepted.
         (f)   All bonds must be paid in full before any work is commenced.
         (g)   there shall be a sewer connection fee of $800.
      (2)   Inspections.
         (a)   An inspection fee of $50 shall be paid before any sewer work is
commenced.
         (b)   All sewer installations shall be inspected by the Public Works
Manager, or his or her authorized designee, before being covered. The Public
Works Manager, or his or her authorized designee, shall be the only village
representatives allowed to sign off on sewer lateral inspections.
         (c)   Any inspection requested for a weekend/holiday shall be made at
the discretion of the Public Works Manager.
         (d)   In the event that an inspection is scheduled for a weekend/
holiday, the inspection fee shall be a minimum of $150, or actual costs
incurred, whichever is greater. All weekend/holiday inspections must be
scheduled by the installer at least 48 hours prior to the day of inspection.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-6) (Ord. 535, passed 3-7-1994; Ord. 2021-07, passed 9-7-
2021)
§ 50.59 WATER DEPOSIT; REFUND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Application for service; deposit required. The Public Works Manager
shall be empowered to collect a water meter deposit in the sum of $120 at the
time any person applies for water service from the village municipal water
system.
   (B)   Refund policy.
      (1)   The Public Works Manager shall be empowered to refund the water
deposit to any person who is current with his or her account with the Village
Water and Sewer Department, upon the occasion of said customer terminating his
or her service with the village because of moving or cancellation of service.
      (2)   The Public Works Manager shall be empowered to refund the water
deposit to any person who was late with only one payment out of 12 consecutive
months of regular water service for good cause. This power shall be
discretionary on the part of the Public Works Manager.
   (C)   Impose increased deposit for numerous delinquencies. The Public Works
Manager shall be empowered to impose an increased water deposit in the event
any person is delinquent in making monthly water service payments numerous
times and in the event the Public Works Manager believes that the water deposit
should be increased. The Public Works Manager may increase the water deposit to
any sum up to a maximum of $100.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-7) (Ord. 458, passed 3-4-1985; Ord. 755, passed 7-7-2014)
§ 50.60 SERVICE RATES AND CHARGES; BILLINGS.
   (A)   Generally. There shall be established the following rates and charges
for the use of the water system of the village, and consumed, each structure
based upon 1,000 gallons, as follows.
      (1)   Water rate structure.
 Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5
                                   Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5
In town minimum                    $13    $14    $15    $16    $17
Out of town minimum                $29    $31    $32.75 $34.50 $36.25
First 5,000 Gallons                $10    $10.50 $11    $11.50 $11.75
Next 5,000 Gallons                 $9.75  $10.25 $10.75 $11.25 $11.50
Next 15,000 Gallons                $9.50  $10    $10.50 $11    $11.25
Next 25,000 Gallons                $9.25  $9.75  $10.25 $10.75 $11
Over                               $9     $9.50  $10    $10.50 $10.75
Robings Manor Nursing Home minimum $13    $14    $15    $16    $17
First 5,000 gallons                $10    $10.50 $11    $11.25 $11.50
Next 5,000 gallons                 $9.75  $10.25 $10.75 $11    $11.25
Next 15,000 gallons                $9.50  $10    $10.50 $10.75 $11
Next 25,000 gallons                $9.25  $9.75  $10.25 $10.50 $10.75
Over                               $9     $9.50  $10    $10.25 $10.50
FWD (per thousand)                 $7.33  $7.61  $7.80  $8.01  $8.19
 
      (2)   Sewer rate structure.
 
                          Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5
Residential sewer minimum $5.90  $6.05  $6.20  $6.35  $6.50
0-11,000 gallons          $6.40  $6.55  $6.70  $6.85  $7
Commercial sewer minimum  $5.90  $6     $6.10  $6.20  $6.25
0-11,000 gallons          $6.40  $6.45  $6.50  $6.55  $6.60
11,000+ gallons           $6.40  $6.40  $6.40  $6.40  $6.40
 
      (3)   Re-evaluation. This division (A) shall be re-evaluated as
necessary, but in any event, not less than annually, in order to make certain
that the rates charged are adequate to meet the costs promulgated by the
state’s American Water System for the cost of water, together with any
necessary water system improvements. Any amount of increase charged to the
village will then be passed on to the village users.
   (B)   Bulk water hauling rates. Water rates for bulk hauling by water truck
haulers shall be set at the rate of $5.70 per 1,000 gallons.
      (1)   A bulk water truck haulers charge shall be applied whether haulers
load at the municipal water building located in the village, or whether loaded
at any other bulk loading points throughout the municipal water system.
      (2)   BULK LOADING POINT shall be defined as any point where a water tank
is filled for transport to any other location whether it may be for resale or
gift. All bulk hauling rates shall be equal, and the same charge of $5.70 per
1,000 gallons shall apply to all water distribution points for the loading of
water trucks throughout the municipal waterworks system.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-9) (Ord. 567, passed 2-9-1998; Ord. 702, passed 9-7-2010;
Ord. 2023-2, passed 2-6-2023)
§ 50.61 BILLING AND DELINQUENCY PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Rendition of monthly statements. All water and sewer statements shall
be rendered monthly; shall be payable on or before the fifteenth of the month;
and a late payment charge equal to 20%, as prescribed by the rules and
regulations of the Water and Sewer Department, shall be added for payment after
the fifteenth of the month.
   (B)   Late payment penalty. For each late payment by a customer for water
and sewer services, there shall be assessed to the customer by the Water and
Sewer Department a penalty equal to 20% of the statement sent to the customer
for water and sewer charges.
   (C)   Customer request for water turn off for leak; reconnection fee. In the
event a customer requests that water be turned off after working hours because
of a leak in the customer’s water system, the Water and Sewer Department shall
make a charge of $35 for said service.
   (D)   Checks issued on insufficient funds. The Water and Sewer Department
shall assess a charge of $35 to each customer for an “insufficient funds” check
given by the customer to the Village Water and Sewer Department.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-10) (Ord. 418, passed 6-1-1981; Ord. 2021-05, passed 10-4-
2021; Ord. 2023-11, passed 10-2-2023)
§ 50.62 DISCONNECT SERVICE FOR NONPAYMENT; NOTICE; CHARGES; RECITALS.
   (A)   Failure to pay bill. All bills for utility services shall be due and
payable upon presentation and if a bill is not paid within 15 days, a penalty
equal to 20% of the amount due on said bill shall be added thereto. This
penalty shall be in addition to the charges heretofore established for the
utility services.
   (B)   Reconnection and non-payment fee. In the event water service to any
water user of the Village is disconnected for non-payment of municipal water
service charged by the Village, a $75 non-payment fee will be assessed. No
reconnection shall be made until all delinquent water and sewer charges are
paid to the Village by the user and/or owner of the property.
   (C)   Disconnection for non-payment.
      (1)   Any customer who fails to pay their utility bills within 25 days of
presentation shall have the utility services disconnected after a written
notice by the Water Clerk has been mailed by first-class mail to the customer.
The foresaid notice shall be mailed to the customer 16 days after billing, or
in the event the sixteenth day falls on a weekend or holiday, the next business
day following the sixteenth day, specifically advising the customer of the
following:
         (a)   Name and address of the customer and amount due for services,
including late penalties.
         (b)   Date of disconnection/termination of services.
      (2)   Payment arrangements can be made prior to the disconnection date
with partial payment of at least 50% of the current balance. If payment in full
is not made by the thirty-ninth day (two weeks from the original disconnection
date), all applicable penalties and fees will be applied to the unpaid balance
and water service shall be disconnected.
   (D)   Hearing.
      (1)   Any customer disputing the contents of their bill shall have the
right to a hearing. The customer may be represented in person, by counsel or
any other person of their choosing, at their expense. If representation is by
another, the customer must advise the Village official in advance of the
hearing. The complaint may be oral or in writing, directed to the Village
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall have the authority
to make a final determination of the customer's complaint, including whether or
not the customer's services will be disconnected/terminated.
      (2)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be considered at
the hearing. Only questions of proper billing will be evaluated. Nonpayment
and/or request of a hearing will not delay or eliminate disconnection on the
date specified in the notice.
      (3)   Upon utility services being disconnected, services shall not be
reconnected or used until all delinquent accounts and bills of service are paid
in full. A non-payment fee of $75, described in paragraph (B)(1), shall be
applied. Reconnection of services shall be 8:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m., Monday
through Friday.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-11) (Ord. 440, passed 6-20-1983; Ord. 721, passed 4-2-2012;
Ord. 755, passed 7-7-2014; Ord. 2023-11, passed 10-2-2023; Ord. 2024-07, passed
8-5-2024) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.63 MULTIPLE HOOKUPS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      MINIMUM FEE. The base charge established by the village from time to time
as the minimum charge that is assessed to each person, firm, or corporation for
being provided water service or sewer service.
      MULTISEWER HOOKUPS. Includes two or more sewer users connected to the
municipal sewer system through one single sewer connection.
      MULTIWATER HOOKUPS TO A SINGLE WATER METER. Includes two or more water
users receiving water through a single water meter.
      SEWER USER. Considered as each separate and distinct household or
business located in the corporate limits of the village.
      WATER USER. Considered as each separate and distinct household or
business located in the village.
   (B)   Village consent required. It shall be illegal for any person to permit
multiple water or sewer hookups through one single connection to the water
system or the sewer system, as the case may be, without the written consent of
the Water and Sewer Department. In the event multiple water hookups or sewer
connections are made without the consent of the Water and Sewer Department, the
village shall have the authority to require the water user or sewer user to
disconnect the hookup which was installed without the consent of the village.
      (3)   In the alternative, the village may still give its consent to
multiple hookups for water or sewer for one connection and charge the
appropriate connection fee for water or sewer, as the case may be, or for both,
at the rate established for the water connection charge and sewer connection
charge.
   (C)   Water and sewer charges.
      (1)   Water users. Any person having two or more water users connected to
a single water meter shall be required to pay a minimum fee for each of the
water users together with a charge of $3.60, or at a rate which is established
from time to time by the Board of Trustees, for each 1,000 gallons of water
used, beginning with the first 1,000 gallons, up to 11,000 gallons, and $2.30
per 1,000 gallons of water used thereafter.
      (2)   Sewer users. Any person having two or more sewer users connected to
the municipal sewer system through a single connection thereto shall be
required to pay a minimum fee for each of the sewer users, together with a
charge of $2.10, or at a rate which is established from time to time by the
Board of Trustees of the village, for the first 1,000 gallons of water metered
for a residence up to 11,000 gallons, there being no further charge thereafter,
of $2.10 per 1,000 gallons of meter water for a business, without limitation.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-12) (Ord. 497, passed 2-6-1989) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person violating §
50.03(A) without authority from the Public Works Manager shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99(A) per offense.
      (2)   Any person violating §
50.03(B) without authority shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99(A) per offense.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-13)
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §
50.04 shall be subject to a fine of up to $100 for each violation.
(Prior Code, § 8-5-2)
   (D)   Any person violating §
50.19 shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99(A) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed for
each and every day during which a violation continues or exists.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-6)
   (E)   Any person violating §
50.20 shall be subject to immediate arrest under the charge of “criminal damage
to property.”
(Prior Code, § 8-3-7)
   (F)   (1)   (a)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the
time limit provided for in §
50.21 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99(A) for each violation. Each day in which any such violation shall
continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
         (b)   1.   Any person who shall tap-on, connect, or otherwise make use
of the sanitary system without first obtaining a sewer permit shall be subject
to a fine for violation of §§
50.15 through
50.21 as provided in §
10.99(A).
            2.   After written notice to disconnect such illegal tap, and upon
failure to disconnect, each day thereafter such violation continues shall
constitute a separate violation of §§
50.15 through
50.21.
      (2)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
50.15 through
50.21 shall become liable to the village by reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 8-3-8)
   (G)   The owner or authorized agent of the owner responsible for the
maintenance of the plumbing systems in the building, who knowingly permits a
violation as set out in §§
50.35 through
50.41 to remain uncorrected after the expiration of the time set shall, upon
conviction thereof by the Circuit Court of Macoupin County or Jersey County,
Illinois, be required to pay a fine as provided in §
10.99(A) for each violation. Each day of failure to comply with the
requirements of §§
50.35 through
50.41, after the specified time, shall constitute a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 8-4-7)
   (H)   Any person known as a water user or a water and sewer user and/or
property owner of the village found guilty of violating any terms of §
50.62(B) shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99(A) in the event §
50.62(B) is required to be enforced in any court of the state.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-11)
   (I)   Any person convicted of violating any provision of §
50.63 or any amendments or additions thereto is guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99(A) for such violation, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed
for each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 8-1-12)
(Ord. 308, passed 4-19-1967; Ord. 428, passed 7-1-1982; Ord. 452, passed 7-11-
1984; Ord. 467, passed 1-6-1986; Ord. 497, passed 2-6-1989; Ord. 632, passed 8-
2-2004; Ord. 729, passed 10-1-2012)
CHAPTER 51: CABLE SERVICE
Section
Cable Service Provider Fees
   
51.01   Fee established
   
51.02   Quarterly payment
   
51.03   Computation of fee
CABLE SERVICE PROVIDER FEES
§ 51.01 FEE ESTABLISHED.
   The grantee shall pay an annual service provider fee to the village in an
amount equal to 5% of annual gross revenues derived from the provision of cable
or video service to households located within the village. The 12-month period
for the computation of the service provider fee shall be a calendar year.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 6-4-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.02 QUARTERLY PAYMENT.
   The service provider fee payment shall be due quarterly and payable within
45 days after the close of the preceding calendar quarter. Each payment shall
be accompanied by a brief report prepared by a representative of the grantee
showing the basis for the computation. If mailed, the fee shall be considered
paid on the date it is postmarked.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 6-4-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.03 COMPUTATION OF FEE.
   (A)   For purposes of the calculation of the service provider fee, GROSS
REVENUES shall mean the consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property, and in-kind contributions received by the
grantee for the operation of its cable system to provide cable or video service
within the village, including the following:
      (1)   Recurring charges for cable service or video service;
      (2)   Event-based charges for cable service or video service, including,
but not limited to, pay-per-view and video-on-demand charges;
      (3)   Rental or set-top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment;
      (4)   Service charges related to the provision of cable service or video
service, including, but not limited to, activation, installation, and repair
charges;
      (5)   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including, but not limited to, service order and service
termination charges;
      (6)   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient fund check charges, and
other charges assessed to recover the cost of collecting delinquent payments;
      (7)   A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the cable system from
advertising or for promotion or exhibition of any products or services; and
      (8)   A pro rata portion of compensation derived by the cable system from
the promotion or exhibition of any products or services sold by “home shopping”
channels or similar services carried by the cable system.
   (B)   For purposes of the calculation of the service provider fee, GROSS
REVENUES shall not include:
      (1)   Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad debt;
      (2)   The service provider fee or any tax, fee, or assessment of general
applicability;
      (3)   Any revenues received from services not classified as cable service
or video service, including, without limitation, revenue received from
telecommunication services, voice over internet protocol (VOIP) services,
information services, the provision of directory or internet advertising, or
any other revenues attributable by the holder to non-cable service or non-video
service in accordance with the holder’s books and records kept in the regular
course of business and any applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards, or
orders;
      (4)   Security deposits collected from subscribers; or
      (5)   Any amounts paid by subscribers to “home shopping” or similar
vendors for merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part
of the cable service or video service.
(Ord. 2018-06, passed 6-4-2018)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   State Vehicle Code adopted by reference
   
70.02   Careless driving
   
70.03   Tampering with or defacing street signs
   
70.04   Abandonment of vehicles prohibited
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 STATE VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions, and
sections of the State Vehicle Code, as amended, are hereby adopted by the
village. Any and all violations thereof shall be considered violations of this
title, and each such violation shall subject the violator thereof to penalty
provisions under this title if proceeded hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 CARELESS DRIVING.
   (A)   Prohibited acts. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a motor
vehicle within the village in a CARELESS MANNER, which is defined as follows:
      (1)   Causing tires to break traction, thus emitting a squealing noise;
      (2)   Causing the rear of a vehicle to slide on the pavement in a side-
to-side motion;
      (3)   Accelerating a vehicle into tailgating position behind another
vehicle; and
      (4)   Accelerating a vehicle in a manner which causes the front of the
vehicle to bounce, thus reducing the driver’s control of the vehicle.
   (B)   Exception. This section shall not apply to a vehicle maneuver
necessary to prevent or avoid a collision with another vehicle or pedestrian.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-2) (Ord. 506, passed 6-4-1990) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 TAMPERING WITH OR DEFACING STREET SIGNS.
   No person shall in any manner deface, mutilate, destroy, tamper with, or
remove any street sign or post to which said sign is attached within the
corporate limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-3) (Ord. 209, passed 5-5-1942) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   The abandonment of a vehicle or any part thereof on any highway
in this village is unlawful and subject to penalties as set forth under §
70.99.
      (2)   The term ABANDONMENT shall include any motor vehicle of any kind,
whether on public or private property, with no current valid state
registration, a motor vehicle left unattended on a highway or public property
for a period in excess of 24 hours, a motor vehicle not removed from its
involvement in a collision, an unattended motor vehicle located on a highway or
public property which has sustained acts of vandalism, and a motor vehicle,
wherever located, from which, for a period of at least seven days, the engine,
wheels, or other parts have been removed, or on which the engine, wheels, or
other parts have been altered, damaged, or otherwise so treated that the
vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor power.
      (3)   This shall not include registered historic vehicles or a motor
vehicle on the premises of a place of business engaged in ordinary service or
repair operations for a reasonable period of time, if such business premises is
properly zoned.
   (B)   (1)   The abandonment of a vehicle or any part thereof on private or
public property, other than a highway, in view of the general public, anywhere
in this village is unlawful except on property of the owner or bailee of such
abandoned vehicle.
      (2)   However, a vehicle or any part thereof so abandoned on private
property, without valid state registration, shall be considered abandoned and
authorized for removal, by the village, after waiting a period of 30 days or
more, or may be removed immediately if determined to be a hazardous dilapidated
motor vehicle under 65 ILCS 5/11-40-3.1.
(Ord. 2023-9, passed 4-3-2023) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §
70.02 shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99(A); provided, however, that the fine may be satisfied without court
appearance, by payment to the Circuit Clerk of the county in which said traffic
citation is issued.
(Prior Code, § 6-1-2)
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §
70.03 shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99(A).
(Prior Code, § 6-1-3)
   (D)   A violation of §
70.04 is subject to penalties as set forth under §
10.99 of this code.
(Ord. 209, passed 5-5-1942; Ord. 506, passed 6-4-1990; Ord. 2023-9, passed 4-3-
2023)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Prohibited parking areas
   
71.02   Obstructing traffic
   
71.03   Parking in alleys
   
71.04   Load limits
   
71.05   Snow emergency parking restrictions
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 PROHIBITED PARKING AREAS.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the directions
of a police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk;
   (B)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (C)   Within an intersection;
   (D)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (E)   On a crosswalk;
   (F)   Within 20 feet of any intersection or crosswalk or within 30 feet of a
traffic sign on the approaching side;
   (G)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign, or
traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
   (H)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
   (I)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station on the
side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station;
   (J)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (K)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street (double parking);
   (L)   At any place where the standing of a vehicle will reduce the usable
width of the roadway for moving traffic to less than 18 feet; or
   (M)   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-1) (Ord. 471, passed 4-7-1986; Ord. 480, passed 11-3-1986)
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street, other than in an alley, in
such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than 18 feet
of the width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-2) (Ord. 480, passed 11-3-1986) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall stop,
stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such position as to block the
driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-3) (Ord. 480, passed 11-3-1986) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 LOAD LIMITS.
   No motor vehicle having a gross weight of eight tons or more shall be
permitted to park on the public streets or alleys of the village in any area
zoned residential.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-4) (Ord. 480, passed 11-3-1986) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 SNOW EMERGENCY PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Declaration of emergency. An emergency is automatically declared to
exist within the village whenever there is an accumulation of snow and ice of
two inches or more, at which time, a parking prohibition shall automatically
become effective throughout the village in accordance with the provisions of
this section.
   (B)   Administration. The Police Department is hereby authorized to
administer this section in accordance with the terms herein.
   (C)   Parking on snow routes prohibited. During the time of a snow
emergency, no person shall leave parked or standing any motor vehicle, device
towable by a motor vehicle, or any other property on streets or areas
designated as snow routes, as established in Ch. 73, Sched. III.
   (D)   Designated hours. In the event of a snow emergency, parking shall be
prohibited on snow routes within the village from the hours of 2:00 a.m. to 5:
00 a.m. This parking prohibition shall be removed between the hours of 5:00
a.m. and 2:00 a.m. of the following day on those streets or sections of streets
known and defined as snow routes or snow areas, as established in Ch. 73,
Sched. III.
   (E)   Prima facie evidence of violation. A vehicle that is parked and/or
unattended in a snow route or snow area as set forth in Ch. 73, Sched. III,
when there is an accumulation of snow and ice of two inches or more, shall be
prima facie evidence of violation of this section by the person in whose name
said vehicle is registered.
   (F)   Police authority. Members of the Police Department are hereby
authorized to ticket any vehicle parked and/or unattended in violation of this
section and, if the Director of the Public Works deems it necessary to
effectuate snow removal operations, have the vehicle removed and relocated.
   (G)   Snow on rights-of-way. Excepting the clearing of snow from sidewalks
or entries located upon a public right-of-way, no person shall pile or cause to
be piled any snow on streets, alleys, sidewalks, or any other village-owned
property, except at the direction of the Director of Public Works. Further, no
person shall pile or cause to be piled any snow so as to obstruct the vision at
any intersection of any street or alley within the village.
   (H)   Exception; authorized emergency vehicles. When the parking prohibition
of this section becomes effective upon the occurrence of certain weather
conditions, it shall take precedence over provisions of law normally in effect;
except that it shall not take precedence over provisions of law relating to
traffic accidents, emergency travel of authorized emergency vehicles, or
emergency vehicles, or emergency traffic direction by a police officer.
   (I)   Vehicle removal. If it becomes necessary for the police to have a
vehicle removed and relocated, the violator shall not be deemed to have
complied with this section and shall remain liable for the fine provided, plus
all costs resulting from the removal, relocation, and storage of said vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-5) (Ord. 511, passed 1- -1991) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Unless otherwise provided, any person violating any provision of this
chapter shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99(A) for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 6-2-6) (Ord. 480, passed 11-3-1986)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Non-Highway Vehicles
   
72.01   Policy
   
72.02   Definitions
   
72.03   Requirements
   
72.04   Prohibited locations
   
72.05   Permits
   
72.06   Possibility of amendment, suspension, or end of non-highway vehicle
program
   
72.07   Violations
 
   
72.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Non-highway vehicle application
   
Appendix B:   Non-highway vehicle inspection
NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES
§ 72.01 POLICY.
   (A)   The village, in passing the ordinance from which this chapter is
derived, is not advocating or endorsing the use of non-highway vehicles on
village streets. Other means of travel may be safer. All persons who operate
non-highway vehicles within the village do so at their own risk and peril.
   (B)   In passing the ordinance from which this chapter is derived, the
village does not accept any level of liability for accidents, collisions,
injuries, or death, or destruction of property.
   (C)   In passing the ordinance from which this chapter is derived, the
village is merely regulating the use of non-highway vehicles on village
streets, according to the laws of the state, in an attempt to increase safety
on village streets.
   (D)   Non-highway vehicles, specifically defined and qualified herein, shall
be allowed on village streets under the conditions as hereinafter stated.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 72.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY ROADS. Any county road within the boundaries of the village limits.
   FARM VEHICLES. This chapter does not apply to non-highway vehicles engaged
in farming operations.
   NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLE. Any motorized off-highway device, designed to travel
primarily off-highway, 64 inches or less in width, having a manufacturer’s dry
weight of 2,000 pounds or less, traveling on four or more non-highway tires,
designed with a non-straddle seat and a steering wheel for steering control,
excepting equipment such as lawnmowers, three-wheelers, four-wheelers, go-
karts, lawn mowers, and off-highway motorcycles.
   SEAT BELTS. A set of belts or harnesses meeting the specifications
established by the State Department of Transportation and installed in such
manner as to prevent or materially reduce the movement of the person using the
belts or harness in the event of a collision or the upset of the vehicle.
   STATE ROADS. Illinois Route 267-111.
   VILLAGE STREETS. Any of the streets or roadways under the jurisdiction of
the village and within the corporate village limits. VILLAGE STREETS does not
include any street which is under the jurisdiction of a unit of government
other than the village.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 72.03 REQUIREMENTS.
   All persons operating a non-highway vehicle on the village streets must
comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Must possess a current, valid state driver’s license;
   (B)   Must possess proof of current liability insurance, a certificate of
which shall be kept in/on the non-highway vehicle whenever on village streets;
   (C)   Must obtain a permit from the village and have the non-highway vehicle
certified with the village by inspection by a designated representative;
   (D)   Must display a village decal on both sides of the non-highway vehicle;
   (E)   All non-highway vehicles must be equipped with the following:
      (1)   Horn;
      (2)   Brakes and brake light;
      (3)   Front and rear turn signals;
      (4)   A steering wheel apparatus;
      (5)   Tires;
      (6)   Rearview mirror;
      (7)   Seat belts for each passenger;
      (8)   Red reflector warning device on the front and rear;
      (9)   Yellow flashing light visible for at least 100 feet from the rear
of the vehicle;
      (10)   Approved “slow moving vehicle” emblem on the rear of the vehicle;
      (11)   Headlight that emits a white light visible from a distance of 500
feet to the front which must illuminate when in operation;
      (12)   Tail lamp that emits a red light visible from at least 100 feet
from the rear which must be illuminated when in operation; and
      (13)   Any additional requirements which may be added to 625 ILCS 5/11-
1426.1 of the State Vehicle Code by amendment.
   (F)   The operator of a non-highway vehicle shall, at all times:
      (1)   Obey all traffic laws of the state;
      (2)   Be 18 years of age or older;
      (3)   Operate his or her non-highway vehicle only on the village streets
where permitted;
      (4)   May not operate said vehicle on streets under the jurisdiction of
Brighton Township, Piasa Township, Macoupin County, Jersey County, or the
state, except to cross said streets, in which case, the operator must make a
direct crossing in which the crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90
degrees to the direction of the street, road, or highway at a location where no
obstruction prevents a quick and safe crossing; the non-highway vehicle is
brought to a complete stop before attempting to cross; the operator of the non-
highway vehicle yields to the right-of-way of all pedestrian and vehicular
traffic which constitutes a hazard; and that, when crossing a divided highway,
the crossing is made only at an intersection of the highway with another public
street, road, or highway; and
      (5)   Operate said vehicle in compliance with the posted speed limit, and
regardless, may not exceed 30 mph.
   (G)   A person who drives or who is in actual physical control of a non-
highway vehicle on a roadway while under the influence is subject to §§ 11-500
through 11-502 of the State Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/11-500 to 11-502);
   (H)   All non-highway vehicles may transport only as many individuals as is
the lesser of the number of seats or as its manufacturer designates. No
individual may ride on any other portion of the vehicle;
   (I)   Children must be restrained in the non-highway vehicle in the same
manner required as if they were in an automobile. Car seats and seat belt laws
and regulations shall be followed when children are in the vehicles;
   (J)   The non-highway vehicle’s headlights and taillights shall be
illuminated whenever being operated on village street;
   (K)   Non-highway vehicles may only be operated on village streets from the
hours of 6:00 a.m. until 9:00 p.m;
   (L)   No person shall drive or be in control of a non-highway vehicle on
village streets when an analysis of the person’s blood, urine, breath, or other
bodily substance would disclose an alcohol concentration of more than 0.00
grams of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood or grams of alcohol per 210
liters of breath; and
   (M)   A person who drives or who is in actual physical control of a non-
highway vehicle on a roadway is subject to the laws of the state and village
ordinances.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 1-4-2021) Penalty, see §
72.99
Statutory reference:
   Slow moving vehicle signs, see 625 ILCS 5/12-709
§ 72.04 PROHIBITED LOCATIONS.
   Operation of a non-highway vehicle is prohibited in the following locations:
   (A)   Any state roads within the village corporate limits, with the
exception of crossing at an approved location;
   (B)   Any street, highway, or roadway that has a posted speed limit of more
than 30 mph;
   (C)   Sidewalks;
   (D)   Walking, running, or bike paths;
   (E)   Any unpaved area of the village parks, with the exception of approved
parking at sanctioned events; and
   (F)   Any private real property within the village without the written
authorization of the owner.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 1-4-2021) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a qualified non-highway vehicle without first
obtaining a permit from the Chief of Police or his or her designee. A copy of
said permit shall be kept in/on the non-highway vehicle whenever used on
village streets. Only an individual with a valid permit shall be allowed to
operate a non-highway vehicle on the streets of the village. Said individual
shall only be allowed to operate a non-highway vehicle that has been inspected
and approved for travel on village streets and features a village decal on both
sides of the non-highway vehicle. Only one permit per non-highway vehicle is
required.
   (B)   Permits shall be granted for a period of one year from the date
designated on the permit. The renewal date is annually July 1, regardless of
when the permit was granted.
   (C)   The cost of the permit is $25.
   (D)   Liability insurance coverage in the amount of not less than $50,000
per person, or $100,000 per occurrence and property damage in the amount of
$50,000 shall be verified to be in effect by the Village Police Department when
obtaining and/or renewing a permit.
   (E)   Every application for a permit shall be made on a form supplied by the
village and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and date of birth of the applicant;
      (2)   The serial number, make, model, and description of the non-highway
vehicle;
      (3)   All applicants shall release the village by executing a signed
waiver of liability releasing the village and agreeing to defend, indemnify,
and hold the village harmless from any and all future claims resulting from the
operation of the applicant’s non-highway vehicle on village streets;
      (4)   A photocopy of applicable liability insurance coverage card
specifically for the non-highway vehicle to be operated pursuant to the permit;
and
      (5)   Such other information as the village may require.
   (F)   No permit shall be granted unless the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The vehicle must be inspected by the designated representative to
ensure that the vehicle is safe to be operated on village streets and is in
compliance with this chapter and with the State Motor Vehicle Code.
      (2)   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance in compliance with
the coverages stated above.
      (3)   A physically handicapped applicant must submit a certificate signed
by a physician, certifying that the applicant is able to safely operate a
qualified non-highway vehicle on village streets.
   (G)   The village may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder upon a
finding that the holder thereof has violated any provision of this chapter or
at any time there is evidence that the holder cannot safely operate a qualified
non-highway vehicle on the designated roadways.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 1-4-2021; Ord. 2023-5, passed 2-6-2023) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 POSSIBILITY OF AMENDMENT, SUSPENSION, OR END OF NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLE
PROGRAM.
   (A)   Individuals are advised that the village is permitting the use of non-
highway vehicles on village streets in limited circumstances and pursuant to
current state law.
   (B)   Individuals should view the use of non-highway vehicles on village
streets as a program which could be suspended, modified, or terminated at any
time and effective immediately upon a majority vote of the Village Board of
Trustees, repealing this chapter, upon a court ruling, or in the event of a
change in the laws of the state or the United States of America.
   (C)   Individuals should consider these factors when making the decision to
purchase non-highway vehicles or make potentially expensive upgrades to such
vehicles.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 72.07 VIOLATIONS.
   Operating a non-highway vehicle on village streets is a privilege and not a
right. Any person who has a permit to operate a non-highway vehicle on village
streets and is found to have violated this chapter may have his or her permit
suspended or revoked by an officer of the Village Police Department. Decisions
of said police officer shall only be reversed or modified by a majority vote of
the Board of Trustees of the village.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person found to be operating a non-highway vehicle upon the
village streets without a permit and/or decal as set out in §§
72.01 through
72.07 shall be subject to a $25 penalty for the first offense; $50 for the
second offense; and $100 for the third offense.
   (C)   Anyone found to operate a non-highway vehicle on the village streets,
operate said vehicle within the village in an area where said vehicles are not
allowed, or to operate a non-highway vehicle that has not been approved by the
village for travel on village streets shall be subject to a $75 fine for the
first violation, a $150 fine for a second violation within a 365-day period,
and a $500 fine for a third violation within a 365-day period. The village
police shall have the authority to bring a complaint against an individual
violating this chapter to recover the aforementioned fines and to seek an
injunction against further violations of this chapter. To the extent that any
violation of this chapter also constitutes a violation of the criminal and/or
vehicle statutes of the state, then such violator shall also be subject to
criminal prosecution.
   (D)   Any person in possession of or consuming alcoholic beverages on or in
a non-highway vehicle on village streets, in addition to other penalties which
may be available under the laws of the state or other provisions of this
chapter, shall be subjected to revocation of his or her permit to operate a
non-highway vehicle on village streets.
   (E)   Any person receiving a citation under this chapter shall pay any
monetary fine provided for in this section at the police station or the Village
Clerk’s office within 14 days from the date of the citation. If any monetary
penalty is not paid within said 14-day period, the Police Department is
authorized to file a complaint alleging a violation of this chapter and issue a
notice to appear requiring the offender to appear in the appropriate
jurisdiction (Jersey County and/or Macoupin County Circuit Court) to answer to
the charge(s).
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 1-4-2021)
APPENDIX A: NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLE APPLICATION
 
Applicant Information
 
Full name:
_____________________________________________________________________   DOB:
____________________
       Last            First            M.I.
Address:
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________
      Street Address                                 Apartment/Unit #
      ___________________________________________________________________________________________________
      City                     State                  Zip Code
Phone: ____________________________________________      Email:
_________________________________________
Driver’s License: ___________________________________      Year/Make/Model:
_______________________________
Serial Number: _____________________________________
 
Insurance information
 
Company: _________________________________________      Phone:
_________________________________________
From: _____________________ To: ___________________      Liability Limits
50,000 or More? YES / NO
 
Inspection
 
Inspection Date: ____________________               Inspection Time:
______________________
Signature of Inspector:
_________________________________________________   Date:
_________________________
 
Inspection Details Addressed If Any
 
1.
__________________________________________________________________________________________________
2.
__________________________________________________________________________________________________
 
Disclaimer And Signature
 
I certify that my answers are true and complete to the best of my knowledge.
I have been given a copy of the requirements and I have signed the Release of
Liability.
Signature:
_____________________________________________________________________   Date:
_________________________
APPENDIX B: NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLE INSPECTION
Y/N Description Y/N Items to Ask
Y/N Description                        Y/N Items to Ask
VALID DRIVER’S LICENSE               Will you obey all traffic laws of the
                                       State of Illinois?
SEAT BELT OR HARNESS                   Are you over 18?
CURRENT PROOF OF INSURANCES            Operate only on Village Streets?
HORN                                   Will you obey the Village Speed Limits?
                                       Each Driver while under the influence is
BRAKES AND BRAKE LIGHT                 subject to Section 11-500 through 11-502
                                       of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
FRONT AND REAR TURN SIGNALS            May only transport passengers per number
                                       of seats available.
                                       All children must be restrained in the
STEERING WHEEL APPARATUS               same manner required for automobile use.
                                       All car seats and seat belt laws must be
                                       followed.
                                       Headlights and taillights shall be
TIRES                                  illuminated whenever operated on Village
                                       Streets.
REARVIEW MIRROR                        Non-highway may only be operated from 6:
                                       00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m.
                                       No person shall drive when analysis of
PASSENGER SEAT BELTS                   blood, urine, breath or other would
                                       disclose alcohol over 0.00
RED REFLECTOR WARNING DEVICE ON FRONT  I have obtained a copy of Village
AND REAR                               Ordinance 2021-01
YELLOW FLASHING LIGHT ON THE REAR      I have signed a Release of Liability
SLOW MOVING VEHICLE EMBLEM ON THE REAR I will display current tag on front &
                                       rear of non-highway vehicle
HEADLIGHTS                             All issued tags expire on June 30th each
                                       year
TAIL LAMP THAT EMITS RED LIGHT          
                                       
APPROVED/DENIED                        ISSUED TAG NUMBER-
INSPECTOR SIGNATURE:                   DRIVER SIGNATURE:
 
DATE:                                  DATE:
 
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC AND PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Stop and yield intersections
      
II.   No parking and restricted parking
      
III.   Snow routes
      
IV.   School crossing signals
      
V.   Load limits
      
VI.   Directionality
SCHEDULE I. STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Stop intersections. A full and complete stop by a person operating a
motor vehicle shall be made at the following intersections within the village.
Traffic Proceeding on Direction Proceeding Intersection with Ord. #
Traffic Proceeding on Direction Proceeding Intersection with             Ord. #
Anna Street           North                Center Street                 490
Avalon Drive          South                Brown Street                  490
Belvedere Place       East                 Maple Street                  490
Betsey Ann Park                            Park entrance and South Main  490
                                           Street
Boker Street          East                 North Main Street             490
Brown Road                                 Lakewood Drive                490
Brown Road            East or west         Seminary Road                 516
Brown Road            West                 South Main Street             490
Center Street         East                 Main Street                   490
Center Street         East or west         Maple Street                  490
Center Street         West                 North Market Street           490
Center Street         East                 Ransom Street                 490
Clark Street          North                Palmer Street                 490
Cindy Street          East                 Mobile Street                 691
Cindy Street          West                 Margaret Street               691
Cove Drive            North or south       Lakewood Drive                691
Cross Street                               Market Street                 490
Cross Street          North or south       Brown Street                  490
Cross Street          North or south       Center Street                 490
East Vine Street      West                 Market Street                 490
Edwin Street          East                 Mobile Street                 691
Edwin Street          West                 Margaret Street               691
Elm Street            South                South Street                  490
George Street         East                 Mobile Street                 691
George Street         East and west        Margaret Street               691
High Street           West                 Maple Street                  490
Hughes Street         North                South Street                  597
Islander Drive        North or south       Lakewood Drive                691
Jefferson Street      East or west         Cross Street                  490
Jefferson Street      West                 Market Street                 490
Jersey Street         North                Center Street                 490
Jersey Street         South                U.S. Route 67                 490
Lakewood Drive                             Brown Street                  490
Main Street           North                Palmer Street                 490
Main Street           North or south       Center Street                 490
Margaret Street       North                Virginia Street               490
Margaret Street       South                Palmer Street                 490
Marion Street         North                South Street                  490
Market Street                              Cross Street                  490
Market Street         East                 Maple Street                  490
Market Street         East or west         Jersey Street                 490
Moore Street          West                 North Main Street             490
Mulberry Street       West                 Market Street                 490
Myrtle Street         West                 Maple Street                  490
North Maple Street    South                U.S. Route 67                 490
North Market Street   South                Center Street and Main Street 490
North Street          East                 North Main Street             490
North Street          West                 Maple Street                  490
Oak Street            West                 Market Street                 490
Oak Street            West                 North Main Street             490
Olive Street          North or south       North Street                  490
Olive Street          South                Center Street                 490
Palmer Street         East or west         Margaret Street (three-way    490
                                           stop)
Palmer Street         West                 U.S. Route 67                 490
Park Drive            West                 South Main Street             490
Plum Street           East or west         South Main Street             490
Randall Street        East                 South Main Street             490
Ransom Street         North                North Street                  490
Ransom Street         South                Center Street                 490
Rogers Court          South                East Village Limits Road      490
Schneider Park        East                 U.S. Route 67                 490
School Street         South                Brown Street                  490
Seminary Road         North                Brown Street                  490
                                           Alley running from west side
South Main Street                          of Marion Street to east side 490
                                           of South Main Street
South Main Street     Northeast            South Street                  597
South Main Street     South                South Street                  490
South Park Drive      North                Park Drive                    490
South Street          East                 South Main Street             490
South Street          Southwest            South Main Street             597
State Street          East                 South Main Street             490
Tiffany Lane          North                South Main Street             490
Victor Street         North                South Street                  490
Village Limits Road   East or west         North Main Street (U.S. Route 490
                                           67)
Vine Street           East or west         North Main Street             490
Vine Street           West                 Maple Street                  490
Virginia Street       East or west         Margaret Street (three-way    490
                                           stop)
Virginia Street       West                 U.S. Route 67                 490
Walnut Street         East                 South Main Street             490
 
   (B)   Yield intersections. When approaching an intersection bearing a
“yield” sign, a person operating a motor vehicle in the village shall grant the
privilege of the immediate use of the intersecting roadway to traffic within
the intersection and to vehicles approaching from the right or left, but when
the roadway is clear, may proceed into the intersection; said streets to have
“yield” signs are as follows.
Traffic Proceeding on Direction Proceeding Intersection with Ord. #
Traffic Proceeding on Direction Proceeding Intersection with Ord. #
Clark Street          South                Moore Street      490
Cove Drive            South                Islander Drive    490
Crestwood Street      East                 Avalon Drive      490
East Street           East                 Cross Street      490
East Street           West                 Main Street       490
Elm Street            North                Walnut Street     490
Grandview             South                Crestwood Street  490
Green Street          North                Vine Street       490
Green Street          South                Oak Street        490
Market Street         West                 Anna Street       490
Mobile Street         North                Virginia Street   490
Mulberry Street       East                 Burlington Street 490
Oak Street            East                 Burlington Street 490
Olive Street          North                Vine Street       490
Plum Street           East                 Cross Street      490
Stevens Street        South                Crestwood Street  490
Victor Drive          South                Charles Street    490
 
   (C)   Signs posted. The Chief of Police or any other person designated by
the Mayor and Board of Trustees shall post or cause to be posted suitable signs
for the above required stop and yield intersections.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-1) (Ord. 516, passed - -; Ord. 490, passed 1-4-1988; Ord.
597, passed 4-1-2002; Ord. 691, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE II. NO PARKING AND RESTRICTED PARKING.
   (A)   No parking areas. There shall be no parking in the following areas:
      (1)   Belvedere Place on the inner circle, as follows:
         (a)   From the right side of the driveway of Lot 29 to the left side
of the driveway of Lot 31;
         (b)   From the right side of the driveway of Lot 33 to the end of the
property line of Lot 33; and
         (c)   At the corner of Lot 4 for approximately 30 feet on each side of
the corner.
      (2)   Brown Street, either side, from South Main Street on the west end
to Seminary Road on the east end;
      (3)   East Center Street, south side, from Main Street to 110 East Center
Street, but not including 100 East Center Street;
      (4)   High Street, except that temporary parking with the driver in car
shall be permitted on the north side of said street to deliver and pick up
children at school;
      (5)   Maple Street, south corporate limits northerly to the Village
Limits Road;
      (6)   Market Street, either side, from Center Street to Myrtle Street
between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 4:00 a.m. on every day of the week, Sunday
through Saturday;
      (7)   On either side of Myrtle Street from U.S. Highway 111 to its
intersection with Market Street, with said restrictions continuing for 100 feet
from Myrtle Street northbound on Market Street;
      (8)   North Main Street, east side, within 20 feet of the intersection of
North Main Street and Moore Street;
      (9)   North Street and North Main Street, from the intersection, south
for 20 feet on the west side of North Main Street; and
      (10)   West Center Street, either side, between North Main Street and
Highway U.S. 67-111.
   (B)   Handicapped parking. No person, other than a qualified disabled
person, shall park in any parking space in the village posted as a handicapped
parking area; said areas to be designated by rule and regulation of the Board
of Trustees and noted in the minutes when said areas are approved by the
Village Board.
   (C)   Angle parking. When parking on the following streets or parts of
streets, all vehicles shall be parked at an angle with the right front wheel
toward the sidewalk:
      (1)   Main Street, east side, between Center Street and 209 North Main
Street;
      (2)   Main Street, west side, between Center Street and North Street; and
      (3)   North Main Street, east and west sides, for 175 feet north of the
intersection of Vine Street and North Main Street.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-2) (Ord. 455, passed 11-5-1984; Ord. 480, passed 11-3-1986;
Ord. 481, passed 2-2-1987; Ord. 562, passed 7-7-1997; Ord. 616, passed 11-3-
2003; Ord. 773, passed 6-1-2015; Ord. 2020-07, passed 5-4-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE III. SNOW ROUTES.
   The following streets and areas are hereby declared to be snow routes.
   (A)   Business district.
 
Street            Side Area                                              Ord. #
                       From its intersection with Center Street
Market Street     Both proceeding south to the south edge of 122 S.      511
                       Market
North Main Street Both From its intersection with Center Street north to 511
                       its intersection with Oak Street
Parking lots      West North Main Street, identified as 102 North Main   511
                       Street and 112 North Main Street
Ransom Street     Both                                                   511
 
   (B)   Residential areas.
 
Street        Side Area                                   Ord. #
Avalon Street West                                        511
Cross Street  Both Between Center Street and Brown Street 511
 
(Prior Code, § 6-3-3) (Ord. 511, passed - -)
SCHEDULE IV. SCHOOL CROSSING SIGNALS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this schedule, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SCHOOL CROSSING SIGNAL. A permanently mounted electrically operated
signal device equipped with two-way, two-color (red and yellow) signal heads,
together with a standard sign reading “School Crossing,” by which, at
predetermined times and when actuated by the push button, traffic is directed
to stop so as to permit schoolchildren to cross the street or highway safely.
   (B)   Stop required. Whenever the red lens of a school crossing signal is
illuminated by rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line
when marked or, if none, then before entering the intersection, and pedestrians
within or entering the crosswalk at either edge of the roadway shall have the
right-of-way over vehicles so stopped. Drivers of vehicles having so yielded
the right-of-way to pedestrians entering or within the nearest crosswalk at an
intersection may proceed but shall also yield the right-of-way to pedestrians
within any other crosswalk at the intersection. If, in the event a school
crossing signal is erected and maintained at a place other than an
intersection, the provisions of this section also shall be applicable, except
as to provisions which, by their nature, can have no application.
   (C)   Crossing location designated. School crossing signals shall be erected
at the following locations; provided, that if such locations are under the
jurisdiction of the State Department of Public Works and Buildings, the
erection of such signals shall be subject to the approval of said Department:
on the right-of-way of the state highway known as Illinois State Route 111, in
the village, which said location is at the intersection of High Street in the
village with said state route and which exact location shall be designated by
the Division of Highways of the state.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-4) (Ord. 247, passed 12-27-1958) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE V. LOAD LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or permit to be driven any
truck trailer, tractor, or other motor vehicle with a gross weight of more than
eight tons on any street in the village, with the exception of the following:
   (A)   Such load limit shall not apply to West Center Street, beginning at
its intersection with State Route 111 and traveling in a westerly direction on
West Center Street, to the corporate limits of the village; and
   (B)   Such load limit shall not apply to East City Limits Road, beginning at
its intersection with State Route 111 and traveling in an easterly direction on
East City Limits Road, to the corporate limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 6-3-5) (Ord. 771, passed 5-4-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE VI. DIRECTIONALITY.
   High Street is now designated as a two-way street with traffic being allowed
to travel in an easterly or westerly direction on said street.
(Ord. 805, passed 9-6-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   JUNK STORAGE
      
93.   FAIR HOUSING
      
94.   ANIMAL CONTROL
CHAPTER 90: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
90.01   Fireworks
   
90.02   Fire hydrant maintenance schedule
   
90.03   Dumpsters
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Storage, discharge, and exhibitions controlled.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to store any fireworks in the village,
excepting as may be necessary for the giving of a licensed public exhibition of
pyrotechnics as is provided for in this section.
      (2)   The discharge, firing, use, or possession of all firecrackers,
rockets, torpedoes, Roman candles, or other fireworks or substances designed
and intended for pyrotechnic display and of all pistols, canes, cannons, or
other appliances using blank cartridges or caps containing chlorate or potash
mixture, is hereby prohibited. Provided, that the Mayor may order the public
display of fireworks by properly qualified individuals under the direct
supervision of experts in the handling of fireworks. Provided also, that such
display shall be of such a character and so located as, in the opinion of the
Mayor and Board of Trustees, shall not be hazardous to surrounding property, or
endanger any persons.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-1)
   (B)   Sale prohibited. The sale of any fireworks or pyrotechnics at retail
is prohibited within the limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 4-2-2)
(Ord. 154, passed 4-2-1940) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 FIRE HYDRANT MAINTENANCE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Purpose. The memorandum from which this section is derived is made by
the village and the Brighton Betsey Ann Fire Protection District (the district)
to memorialize the understandings between the village and the district
regarding the maintenance and operation of the fire hydrants which are part of
the water distribution and supply system operated by the village in parts of
the district. The purpose of this section is to assure that the fire hydrants
will be operational at all times and can be operated safely by firefighters to
provide a sufficient water supply for fire suppression in the areas in which
they are located.
   (B)   Agreements.
      (1)   A regularly scheduled maintenance program will be put into effect
for all fire hydrants on the village’s water supply distribution system to
assure that the hydrants are operational and in good working order.
      (2)   Older hydrants with leaded in caps will be identified on the map of
the village’s hydrants to be supplied to the district and these hydrants will
also be marked in a mutually agreed manner to identify them to firefighters so
that appropriate precautions can be taken in their use.
      (3)   The village and the district agree that hydrants will be tested on
a routine and joint basis by village personnel and Fire Department personnel
and that this testing will be coordinated by the appropriate personnel of the
village and the district so that joint participation will occur by both village
and district personnel in carrying out the testing of the hydrants. Testing
will occur at least once each year between March 1 and July 1, with the time of
testing to be determined by the village.
      (4)   The village will provide the district with a map showing the fire
hydrants on the distribution system, and this map will be updated as new
hydrants are added or old hydrants removed or relocated.
Editorial note:
   This section is derived from Memo 604, published on 10-7-2002.
§ 90.03 DUMPSTERS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CONSTRUCTION DUMPSTER. A large container provided by waste haulers for
wastes resulting from cleanup projects, and construction projects, and utilized
for the removal of paper, cartons, boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, tree
branches, yard trimmings, wood furniture and bedding, and noncombustible trash,
including, but not limited to, metals, tin cans, metal furniture, dirt, small
quantities of rock and pieces of concrete, glass, crockery, and other mineral
wastes.
      DUMPSTER. A covered container provided by waste haulers for wastes
resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking, and consumption of food, and
wastes resulting from the handling, storage, and sale of produce. No DUMPSTER/
CONTAINER used for such purpose shall be larger than two cubic yards.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-1)
   (B)   Collection requirements. 
      (1)   Collections shall be made once each week for a dumpster that is two
cubic yards, or less.
      (2)   Collections for a construction dumpster shall be made at least once
every 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-2)
   (C)   Prohibited acts and conditions.
      (1)   Tampering with dumpsters/containers or contents. It shall be
unlawful for any person to molest, remove, handle, or otherwise disturb the
containers, or contents; provided, that this division (C)(1) does not apply to
the owner, occupant, lessee, or tenant of the residence or dwelling so placing
the container and contents.
      (2)   Windblown deposit. Refuse shall not be placed so that it can be
moved about or scattered by the wind or elements.
      (3)   Combustible conditions. No person shall place in any container or
dumpster any material which may be likely to take fire or cause a fire.
      (4)   Unlawful disposal. No person shall dump any garbage, refuse, ashes,
or other waste product of any description as may be considered a hazardous
material. All hazardous materials shall be disposed of in a lawful and
environmentally safe procedure.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-3)
(Ord. 811, passed 10-3-2016) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
90.01 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as
provided in §
10.99(A).
(Prior Code, § 4-2-3)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating the provisions of §
90.03 shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99(A) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each and every day during or on which a violation occurs.
(Prior Code, § 4-6-4)
(Ord. 154, passed 4-2-1940; Ord. 811, passed 10-3-2016)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Garbage deposits; burning restricted
   
91.03   Stagnant pools
   
91.04   Dangerous premises
   
91.05   Acts endangering health
   
91.06   Maintaining nuisance
   
91.07   Weeds; abatement
   
91.08   Fences obstructing streets or alleys
   
91.09   Illegally parked vehicle; prima facie proof
   
91.10   Littering
   
91.11   Junk on property
   
91.12   Stopping drains and gutters
   
91.13   Noise
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. Residue from fires used for cooking and for heating buildings.
   GARBAGE. Wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking, and
consumption of food; wastes from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   REFUSE. Combustible trash, including, but not limited to, paper, cartons,
boxes, barrels, wood, excelsior, tree branches, yard trimmings, wood furniture,
bedding; noncombustible trash, including, but not limited to, metals, tin cans,
metal furniture, dirt, small quantities of rock and pieces of concrete, glass,
crockery, other mineral waste; street rubbish, including, but not limited to,
street sweepings, dirt, leaves, catch basin dirt, contents of litter
receptacles; but REFUSE does not mean earth and wastes from building
operations, nor shall it include solid wastes resulting from industrial
processes and manufacturing operations such as food processing wastes, boiler
house cinders, lumber, scraps, and shavings.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-1)
§ 91.02 GARBAGE DEPOSITS; BURNING RESTRICTED.
   (A)   Placement in streets. No person shall deposit or place any garbage or
refuse of any kind whatever in any street, alley, or public way unless the said
garbage or refuse shall be placed in covered containers.
   (B)   Burning of refuse and garbage. Refuse shall be burned only after 6:00
a.m. and before 7:00 p.m. or sundown. No garbage of any kind shall be burned
within the limits of the village.
   (C)   Windblown garbage. No such garbage or refuse shall be so placed that
it can be blown or scattered by the wind.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-2) (Ord. 471, passed 4-7-1986) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 STAGNANT POOLS.
   Any stagnant pools of water in the village are hereby declared to be a
nuisance, and it shall be unlawful for any person to permit any such nuisance
to remain or exist on any property under his or her control.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-3) (Ord. 471, passed 4-7-1986) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 DANGEROUS PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any building, structure, or place to remain
in such a condition as to be dangerous to the public health in any way. Any
such structure, building, or place is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-4) (Ord. 471, passed 4-7-1986) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 ACTS ENDANGERING HEALTH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit or do any act which endangers
the public health or results in annoyance or discomfort to the public, which
said acts shall include the harboring of wild or dangerous animals, as defined
by state and/or federal statute, including snakes.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-5) (Ord. 623, passed 5-24-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 MAINTAINING NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or maintain the existence of
any nuisance on any property under his or her control. The Chief of Police and
all Village Board members are each hereby authorized to abate any such nuisance
existing in the village, whether such nuisance is specifically recognized by
ordinance or not.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-6) (Ord. 471, passed 4-7-1986) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 WEEDS; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Allowing weed growth prohibited. Whoever shall permit or allow any
Canada thistle, bull thistle, burdock, yellow dock, jimsonweed, poison ivy,
ragweed, or any other noxious or pestiferous weeds or grasses to grow on any
premises under control or occupied by him or her shall be deemed guilty of
maintaining a nuisance.
   (B)   Duty to cut. It is hereby made the duty of all persons owning any
lands within the village to cut and destroy all such weeds and grasses before
the same shall mature their seeds, or after growing to a height over ten
inches, whichever occurs first, and to keep such noxious and pestiferous weeds
and grasses, at all times, cut and destroyed, so that the same may not
constitute a fire hazard, a cover for offensive matter, or create an unsightly
condition.
   (C)   Order of abatement.
      (1)   Upon a finding by the Mayor or the chairperson of the public works
committee of the village that such a nuisance exists on any property in the
village, an order for abatement of weeds and grasses shall be prepared and
served upon the record owner and/or occupant(s) of any property found to be in
violation of this section.
      (2)   Said order for abatement shall grant such record owner and/or
occupant(s) a term of five days in which to cut said weeds and grasses and to
restore the property into a safe, clean, and orderly condition.
      (3)   A copy of the order of abatement is attached to the ordinance
codified herein and by this reference made a part hereof. The order of
abatement shall be sent by the Village Clerk with a copy to be directed to the
Village Police Department for its information.
   (D)   Failure to comply with the order of abatement.
      (1)   In the event the record owner and/or occupant(s) of any property
found to be in violation fails to comply with the terms of the order of
abatement, the village shall proceed to abate and cut the weeds and grasses and
shall require the record owner and/or occupant(s) to pay all the expenses
incidental thereto, which shall include, but are not necessarily limited to,
the cost of mowing weeds and grasses, cleaning up the property, legal fees, and
recording fees.
      (2)   In the event of the failure of such record owner and/or occupant(s)
to pay such charges, the village is hereby authorized to record a lien against
the subject premises in the Recorder’s office of the county in which said
property nuisance has been maintained.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-7) (Ord. 471, passed 4-7-1986; Ord. 679, passed 7-6-2009)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 FENCES OBSTRUCTING STREETS OR ALLEYS.
   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance for any person to obstruct any street
or alley in the village by any fence, gate, barrier, or other obstruction.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-8) (Ord. 471, passed 4-7-1986) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES; PRIMA FACIE PROOF.
   The fact that an automobile which is illegally parked is registered in the
name of a person shall be considered prima facie proof that such person was in
control of the automobile at the time of such parking.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-9) (Ord. 471, passed 4-7-1986)
Cross-reference:
   Parking regulations, see
Ch. 71
§ 91.10 LITTERING.
   No person in the village shall throw away, discard, or deposit upon the
streets or any public place beer cans or bottles, soda cans or bottles, paper
or plastic food, beverage, gum or cigarette wrappings, bags, cartons, and
containers or other trash or garbage.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-10) (Ord. 410, passed 12-3-1979) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11 JUNK ON PROPERTY.
   No person shall throw, place, or deposit any dirt, ashes, trash, cans,
bottles, inoperable lawn mowers, tractors, boats, appliances, machinery junk,
or other objects whatsoever on any premises located in the village.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-11) (Ord. 623, passed 5-24-2004) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.12 STOPPING DRAINS AND GUTTERS.
   No person in the village shall deposit earth, fill, or otherwise interfere
with the natural flow of surface drainage from any street or deposit any
obstruction in any gutter, sewer, or any other natural or artificial drain.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-12) (Ord. 410, passed 12-3-1979) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.13 NOISE.
   (A)   No person shall allow or cause to be used or operated any machine or
device for producing and/or reproduction of sound which can be heard 75 feet
from its source.
   (B)   No person shall make, cause, permit or allow to be made noise which
substantially interferes with the peace, quiet, comfort and repose of persons
of ordinary sensibilities occupying, owning or controlling nearby properties,
particularly between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
(Ord. 2024-12, passed 11-4-2024)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99(A) of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each and every day during or on which a violation occurs.
(Prior Code, § 4-1-13)
   (B)   Any person found to be in violation of §
91.11 shall be subject to a fine as provided in §
10.99(A).
(Prior Code, § 4-1-11)
(Ord. 471, passed 4-7-1986; Ord. 623, passed 5-24-2004)
CHAPTER 92: JUNK STORAGE
Section
   
92.01   Junk storage prohibited
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Storing of junk declared a nuisance
   
92.04   Notice to violators
   
92.05   Complaints by citizens
   
92.06   Subsequent investigation of compliance
   
92.07   Procedure upon noncompliance
   
92.08   Prosecution by village
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 JUNK STORAGE PROHIBITED.
   Owners and occupants of real property located within the village are
prohibited from allowing abandoned vehicles, junk, trash, and refuse to remain
on property owned or occupied by them.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-1) (Ord. 810, passed 10-3-2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Includes any motor vehicle of any kind, whether on public
or private property, with no current valid state registration, a motor vehicle
left unattended on a highway or public property for a period in excess of 24
hours, a motor vehicle not removed from its involvement in a collision, an
unattended motor vehicle located on a highway or public property which has
sustained acts of vandalism, a motor vehicle, wherever located, from which, for
a period of at least seven days, the engine, wheels, or other parts have been
removed, or on which the engine, wheels, or other parts have been altered,
damaged, or otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven
under its own motor power. This shall not include registered historic vehicles
or a motor vehicle on the premises of a place of business engaged in ordinary
service or repair operations for a reasonable period of time, if such business
premises is properly zoned.
   JUNK, TRASH, and REFUSE. Includes any and all garbage, liquids, slops,
animal or vehicle matter, filth, dirt, or rubbish, or waste matter, or
substances of any kind, whether reusable or not, which is likely to become
rotten, foul, or nauseous and offensive to the public health, safety, or to the
aesthetics of the neighborhood, which is not within a closed building, and is
specifically intended to include, but not be limited to, wrecked, disabled,
and/or abandoned automobiles, motorcycles, trucks, tractors, machinery, and/or
motor vehicles of any kind, any parts thereof, old refrigerators, stoves,
washers, dryers, computers, and/or electronic devices, and/or other appliances.
This definition shall not apply to a licensed junkyard which is in full
compliance with all ordinances of the village.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-2) (Ord. 810, passed 10-3-2016)
§ 92.03 STORING OF JUNK DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   The storing of an abandoned vehicle, junk, trash, and refuse on private
property within the village, where such storage is not otherwise authorized
under this code or the village zoning ordinance, and in any manner not
permitted by such zoning ordinance, is declared a nuisance and is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-3) (Ord. 810, passed 10-3-2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 NOTICE TO VIOLATORS.
   (A)   Any police officer or the code enforcement inspector of the village,
upon observing any violation of this chapter, shall issue a notice directed to
the owner of record of the property on which said nuisance occurs, as shown in
the records of the County Recorder of Deeds, or to the occupant of said
property, or to both. Such notice shall describe the violation and shall
establish a reasonable time limit for the abatement thereof by the owner or
occupant after service of such notice.
   (B)   That officer or inspector shall make a return upon a copy of such
notice, showing the time of service, the person upon whom it was served, or the
manner in which it was served.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-4) (Ord. 810, passed 10-3-2016)
§ 92.05 COMPLAINTS BY CITIZENS.
   Any citizen of the village who observes a violation of this chapter may file
an affidavit setting forth in detail the violation, its location, and the name
of the owner and occupant of the property on which such nuisance is alleged,
and may file such affidavit with the police or code enforcement inspector of
the village, who shall make an investigation of such charge. If the police or
inspector determines such nuisance exists, the inspector shall issue a notice
to the owner or occupant of the property as provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-5) (Ord. 810, passed 10-3-2016)
§ 92.06 SUBSEQUENT INVESTIGATION OF COMPLIANCE.
   Immediately upon the termination of the time allowed in any such notice for
the abatement of such nuisance, the police officer or the inspector of the
village who served such notice, or any other police officer or inspector, shall
investigate to determine whether or not such nuisance has been abated.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-6) (Ord. 810, passed 10-3-2016)
§ 92.07 PROCEDURE UPON NONCOMPLIANCE.
   In the event the owner or occupant of the property where such nuisance
exists has failed within the prescribed time to abate such nuisance, then the
police officer or the inspector of the village who served such notice, or other
authorized village employee or official, shall file a complaint charging
violation of this code with the Circuit Court charging a violation of this
code. The village may seek either or both injunctive and penal relief demanding
that the owner of the property or the occupant thereof, or both, be fined as
stated in this code; and, that they be ordered by the court to abate such
nuisance as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-7) (Ord. 810, passed 10-3-2016)
§ 92.08 PROSECUTION BY VILLAGE.
   The village shall prosecute all complaints or violations of this code. It
shall not be a defense to this violation that the owner or the occupant
contractually assigned the obligation to abate such nuisances to the other or
another party. As owner and/or occupants of the property, they are jointly and
mutually obligated to comply with this code and to abate nuisances. The village
may seek relief from either or both the owner or occupant of the property.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-8) (Ord. 810, passed 10-3-2016)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any property owner and/or any occupant of property who allows such storage
on the property owned or occupied by him/her shall be guilty of violating this
code. Any person, firm, or corporation violating the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99(A) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each and every day during or on which a violation occurs.
(Prior Code, § 4-3-9) (Ord. 810, passed 10-3-2016)
CHAPTER 93: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
93.01   Declaration of policy
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Prohibited acts
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   In furthering the policy of the state as expressed in its Constitution
and other laws; in order that the safety and general welfare, peace, and health
of all the inhabitants of the village may be ensured, it is hereby declared the
policy of the village to assure equal opportunity to all residents, regardless
of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or physical
disability to live in decent, sanitary, healthful, standard living quarters.
   (B)   It is the policy of the village that no owner, lessee, sublessee,
assignee, managing agent, or other person, firm, or corporation having the
right to sell, rent, lease, or otherwise control any housing accommodation and/
or real property within the village, or any agent of these, shall refuse to
sell, rent, lease, or otherwise deny to or withhold from any person or group of
persons such housing accommodations and/or real property because of the race,
color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of such
person or persons or discriminate against any person or persons because of
race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability
in the conditions, terms, privileges of the sale, rental, or lease of any
housing accommodation and/or real property or in the furnishing of facilities
and/or services in connection therewith.
   (C)   Relocation shall be carried out in a manner that will promote maximum
choice within the community’s total housing supply; lessen racial, ethnic, and
economic concentrations; and facilitate desegregation and racially inclusive
patterns of occupancy and use of public and private facilities.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-1) (Ord. 610, passed 3-3-2003) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DECENT, SANITARY, HEALTHFUL STANDARD LIVING QUARTERS. Housing which is in a
sound, clean, and weathertight condition in conformance with applicable local,
state, and national codes.
   DISCRIMINATE or DISCRIMINATION. Any difference expressed in any way toward a
person or persons in the terms of the sale, exchange, lease, rental, or
financing for housing accommodation and/or real property in regard to such
sale, exchange, rental, lease, or finance because of the race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of such person.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Any person, institution, or business entity of any
kind which loans money to persons and receives as security for said loans a
secured interest of any kind in the real property of the borrower.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION. Includes any building, structure, or portion thereof
which is used or occupied, maintained, arranged, or designed to be used or
occupied as a home, residence, or sleeping place of one or more human beings,
or any real estate so used, designed, or intended for such use.
   OWNER. Any person/persons who hold legal or equitable title to, or owns any
beneficial interest in, any real property or who hold legal or equitable title
to shares of, or hold any beneficial interest in any real estate cooperative
which owns any real property and/or housing accommodations.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER. Any person, partnership, association, corporation, and/
or agent thereof, who for a fee or other valuable consideration offers, sells,
purchases, exchanges, or rents, or negotiates for the sale, purchase, exchange,
or rental of, a housing accommodation and/or real property of another, or
collects rent for the use of housing accommodation and/or real property of
another.
   REAL PROPERTY. Any real estate, vacant land, building, structure, or housing
accommodations within the corporate limits of the village.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-2) (Ord. 610, passed 3-3-2003)
§ 93.03 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sublessee,
real estate broker, or salesperson, financial institution, or employee of the
financial institution, advertiser, or agent of any or all of the foregoing, to
discriminate against any person or persons because of their race, color,
religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability with regard to
the sale, exchange, or rental, or any dealing concerning any housing
accommodation and/or real property.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing, it shall also be unlawful for any real
estate broker or employee thereof, owner or other persons, or financial
institution dealing with housing or real property in the village:
      (1)   To discriminate against any person in the availability of or the
price, terms, conditions, or privileges of any kind relating to the sale,
rental, lease, or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in
the village or in the furnishing of any facilities or services in connection
therewith;
      (2)   To publish or circulate, or cause to be published or circulated,
any notice, statement, or advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to use any
form of application, for the purchase, lease, rental, or financing of real
property, or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective
purchase, rental, or lease of such real estate, which expresses, directly or
indirectly, any discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of any person;
      (3)   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing
loans, accepting mortgages or otherwise obtaining or making available funds for
the purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair, or maintenance
of any housing accommodation and/or real property;
      (4)   To solicit for sale, lease, or listing for the sale or lease, of
any housing accommodation and/or real property on the grounds of loss of value
because of the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed, or disability;
      (5)   To distribute, or cause to be distributed, written material or
statements designed to induce any owner or any housing accommodation and/or
real property to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or
prospective change in the race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed, or disability of persons in the neighborhood;
      (6)   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale or
the anticipated listing for sale or the sale of any housing accommodation and/
or real property for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale
or listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any
particular race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or
disability in the area will or may result in the lowering of property values in
the block, neighborhood, or area in which the property is located; or
      (7)   For any owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent, or
otherwise deal with such owner’s housing accommodations and/or real property
with any limitation on its sale based on race, color, religion, national origin
or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of the proposed buyer or tenant.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-3) (Ord. 610, passed 3-3-2003) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $1,500. Each
day a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation. This section
shall in no way abrogate or impair the right of the village to specifically
enforce, by any legal means, any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1-11-4) (Ord. 610, passed 3-3-2003)
CHAPTER 94: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
   
94.01   Purpose
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Administrator
   
94.04   Enforcement
   
94.05   Animals running at large
   
94.06   Impoundment and redemption
   
94.07   Redemption by person other than owner
   
94.08   Right of entry; inspections; refusal to deliver dog or other animal
   
94.09   Harboring stray animals restricted
   
94.10   Diseased or injured animals
   
94.11   Enforcement officers not responsible for accident or disease to any dog
or cat
   
94.12   Animal considered a nuisance
   
94.13   Interference with animal control personnel
   
94.14   Inoculation of dogs and cats
   
94.15   Inoculation and identification tags
   
94.16   Confinement of animal that has bitten someone
   
94.17   Duties of owners of rabid or biting animals
   
94.18   Reimbursement to animal bite victims
   
94.19   Dangerous animals
   
94.20   Determination of vicious dog; defenses
   
94.21   Vicious dogs; control, impoundment
   
94.22   Dangerous dogs; nuisance; exceptions
   
94.23   Dangerous dogs; appeal
   
94.24   Humane care of animals
   
94.25   Abandonment of animal unlawful
   
94.26   Acts of cruelty to animals prohibited
   
94.27   Diseased and injured animals
   
94.28   Keeping animals other than domesticated pets
   
94.29   No feral cat colonies allowed
   
94.30   Female dogs and cats in heat
   
94.31   Injury to property
   
94.32   Limitation on number of dogs and cats kept; nuisance
 
   
94.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Life of pet tag registration
   
Appendix B:   Application for permit to own fowl and/or rabbits
§ 94.01 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of the animal control programs are as follows.
   (A)   To protect the public health and safety:
      (1)   From rabies in accordance with the Animal Control Act, being 510
ILCS 5;
      (2)   From dangerous and vicious dogs;
      (3)   By educating the public about state and local ordinances;
      (4)   By controlling and impounding animals under is jurisdiction; and
      (5)   By enforcing local and state statutes.
   (B)   To promote the welfare of animals:
      (1)   By adhering to the State Humane Care for Animals Act, being 510
ILCS 70;
      (2)   By educational programs about responsible pet ownership; and
      (3)   By the humane care and maintenance of impounded animals.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-1) (Ord. 688, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Animal Control Act, 510 ILCS 5/1 through 5/27, as amended.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Chief of Police of the village, or his or her duly
designated agent, police officers, or animal control officer.
   ANIMAL. Any animal, both domestic and wild, other than humans, which may be
affected by rabies.
   ANIMAL CONTROL FACILITY. May be used interchangeably and mean any facility
approved by the administrator for the purpose of enforcing the Animal Control
Act and Humane Control of Animals Act and used as a shelter for seized, stray,
homeless, abandoned, or unwanted dogs or other animals.
   ANIMAL CONTROL WARDEN. Persons appointed by the administrator to perform
duties assigned by the administrator as set forth in this chapter.
   AT LARGE. Any dog or cat shall be deemed to be AT LARGE when it is off the
premises of its owner’s real property and not restrained by a competent person.
   BREEDABLE FEMALES. Any dog or cat that is six months or older and is not
spayed.
   CAT. All domestic members of the family Felis catus domesticus.
   COMPETENT PERSON. A human being over the age of 15 years that is capable of
controlling and governing the dog or cat in question, and to whose commands the
dog or cat is obedient.
   CONFINED. The restriction of an animal at all times by the owner, or his or
her agent, to an escapeproof building or other enclosure away from other
animals and the public.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any individual dog when unmuzzled, unleashed, or unattended
by its owner or custodian that behaves in a manner that any reasonable person
would believe poses a serious and imminent threat or serious physical injury or
death to a person or a companion animal.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Agriculture of the state.
   DEPUTY ADMINISTRATOR. Member of the Village Police Department and member of
other law enforcement agencies appointed by the Chief of Police.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Department of Agriculture of the state or his
or her duly appointed representative.
   DOG. All domestic members of the family Canis familiaris.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation.
   ENCLOSURE. A fence or structure of at least six feet in height, forming or
causing an enclosure suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and
suitable to confine a vicious dog in connection with other means which may be
taken by the owner or keeper, such as tethering of a vicious dog within the
ENCLOSURE.
      (1)   Such ENCLOSURE shall be securely enclosed and locked and designed
with secure sides, top, and bottom and shall be designed to prevent the animal
from escaping from the ENCLOSURE.
      (2)   Such ENCLOSURE must be approved by the administrator.
   FERAL CAT. A cat that:
      (1)   Is born in the wild or is the offspring of an owned or feral cat
and is not socialized; or
      (2)   Is a formerly owned cat that has been abandoned and is no longer
socialized.
   HAS BEEN BITTEN. Has been seized with the teeth or jaws so that the person
or animal seized has been nipped, gripped, wounded, or pierced. The phrase
further includes contact of saliva with any break or abrasion of the skin.
   HUMANELY DISPATCHED. The painless administration of a lethal dose of an
agent which shall cause the painless death of an animal as prescribed in the
Journal of the American Veterinary Medical Association, January 15, 1993. Said
methods shall not destroy brain tissue necessary for laboratory examination for
rabies. Animals shall be handled prior to administration of the agent in such a
manner as to avoid undue apprehension by the animal.
   IMPOUNDED. Taken into custody of the public animal control facility in the
village, town, or county where the animal is found.
   INOCULATIONS AGAINST RABIES. The injection of an antirabies vaccine approved
by the Department.
   INTACT ANIMAL. An animal that has not been spayed or neutered.
   KITTENS. All domestic members of the family Felis catus domesticus, male or
female, under the age of four months.
   LEASH. A cord, rope, strap, or chain which shall be securely fastened to the
collar or harness of a dog or other animal and shall be of sufficient strength
to keep such dog or other animal under control.
   LICENSED VETERINARIAN. A veterinarian licensed by the state in which he or
she engages in the practice of veterinary medicine.
   MULTIPLE PET OWNER. Any person who harbors more than three dogs or cats, or
any combination thereof, over four months of age on their property or in their
dwelling unit.
   OWNER. A person having a right of property in an animal, or who keeps or
harbors an animal, or who has it in his or her care, or acts as its custodian,
or who knowingly permits a domestic animal to remain on or about any premises
occupied by him or her.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, society,
association, or other legal entity, any public or private institution, the
state, municipal corporation, or political subdivision of the state, or any
other business unit.
   PHYSICAL INJURY. The impairment of physical condition.
   PUPPY. All members of the family Canis familiaris, whether male or female,
under four months of age.
   REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE. A printed form prescribed by the Department for
the purpose of recording pertinent information as required by the Department
under this chapter.
   RESTRAINT. An owned animal, off the premises of its owner’s real property,
is under RESTRAINT within the meaning of this chapter:
      (1)   If it is controlled by a line or leash not more than six feet in
length when said line or leash is held by a competent person;
      (2)   If it is controlled by a leash of 50 feet or less during a training
session conducted by a competent person;
      (3)   When it is within a vehicle being driven, parked, or stopped;
      (4)   When it is confined in a cage or other animal carrier; and/or
      (5)   While it is utilized in the sport of hunting.
   RURAL. The unincorporated area around the village which has not been
subdivided for residential purposes.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL INJURY. A physical injury that creates a substantial risk
of death or that causes death, serious or protracted disfigurement, protracted
impairment of health, impairment of the function of any bodily organ, or
plastic surgery.
   SHELTER. A structure which has four sides, a roof, floor, and bedding.
      (1)   The SHELTER shall be of sufficient size to permit an animal to
stand up and turn around inside when fully grown and allow retention of body
heat.
      (2)   The SHELTER shall be placed to provide shade from the sun and
protection from the weather.
   STERILIZED. The surgical spay of a female animal or castration of a male
animal, so as to render such animal incapable of reproducing.
   STRAY. An animal which is “straying” as defined in this section.
   STRAYING. A dog or other animal not on the premises of the owner or not
confined or under control by leash or other recognized control methods.
   TAG. A serially numbered medallion approved by the Department to be issued,
at a fee set by the Village Board, as evidence of inoculation against rabies.
   VICIOUS DOG. A dog that bites a person, attacks a person, or causes physical
injury, serious physical injury, or death to a person or a companion animal or
any individual dog that has been found to be a “dangerous dog” upon two
separate occasions.
   WILD ANIMAL. A wolf, coyote, or the offspring of a mating between a wolf or
coyote and a dog (hybrid names: coydog or wolf hybrid). There is no recognized
vaccine approved for use on WILD ANIMALS; therefore, WILD ANIMALS shall not be
vaccinated against rabies and will be impounded for no rabies vaccination.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-2) (Ord. 688, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 94.03 ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Chief of Police shall serve as administrator and may appoint members of
the Village Police Department, other employees of the village, or members of
other law enforcement agencies as assistant administrators and animal control
officer(s).
(Prior Code, § 5-5-3) (Ord. 688, passed 3-1-2020)
§ 94.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   It is the duty of the administrator to enforce the provisions of this
chapter. The administrator, his or her assistants, and animal control officer
(s) are, in accordance with this chapter and for the purpose of enforcing it,
clothed with power of the police officers of the village and, within such
village, are peace officers in the enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter, including issuance and service of citations and orders, and as such
peace officers, have the power to make arrests on view or on warrants for
violation of this chapter, and to execute and serve all notices, warrants, and
processes issued by the Court.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-4) (Ord. 688, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 94.05 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   Every owner of an animal shall contain such animal to the confines of
the owner’s real property unless the animal is under restraint and shall not
permit such animal to be at large. Any animal found running at large in the
village may be apprehended and impounded in any existing or available public
pound.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above shall not apply to:
      (1)   Dogs being used in hunting field trials;
      (2)   Dog shows while on public lands set aside for those purposes;
      (3)   Bloodhounds or other dogs used for tracking in conjunction with
police activities; and
      (4)   Dogs of the canine corps of the police force, the state police, any
federal law enforcement agency, or the armed forces while being used to conduct
official business or being used for official purposes.
   (C)   An animal found running at large in violation of the provisions of
this section a second or subsequent time must be spayed or neutered within
seven days at the owner’s expense after being reclaimed unless already spayed
or neutered. Failure to comply shall result in impoundment of the animal.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-5) (Ord. 688, passed 3-1-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.06 IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION.
   (A)   When any animal is apprehended and impounded by the administrator or
any of his or her representatives, the administrator shall make reasonable
efforts to locate and contact the owner.
   (B)   All animals which have been impounded in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter shall be humanely dispatched or disposed of as stray
animals in accordance with the laws that exist, or may hereafter exist, when
not redeemed by the owner within a period of not less than five days from the
date of impoundment, except on Sundays and holidays. In the event the owner of
the impounded animal desires to make redemption thereof, he or she may do so by
complying with the rules and regulations of this chapter, and paying all the
fines and costs of the pound where such animal is impounded.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-6) (Ord. 688, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 94.07 REDEMPTION BY PERSON OTHER THAN OWNER.
   (A)   Upon expiration of seven days from the date of impoundment, except
Sundays and holidays, an unclaimed animal which has been deemed suitable for
adoption by the animal control officer or administrator may be adopted by any
person other than the owner. The person adopting shall be required to pay to
the Village Clerk the adoption fee and sterilization deposit. Every animal
redeemed must have attached to its collar, or proof must be provided within 72
hours, the rabies registration tag of the animal.
   (B)   (1)   No animal shall be adopted from the animal control facility
unless sterilized at the cost of the new owner. Any animal adopted from the
animal control facility shall be sterilized pursuant to an adoption agreement.
      (2)   Any owner who fails to sterilize his or her animal pursuant to the
terms of the agreement shall be in violation of the terms of this chapter.
Ownership of any adopted animal not sterilized shall revert to the animal
control facility, and the animal is subject to immediate impoundment by the
animal control officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-7) (Ord. 688, passed 3-1-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.08 RIGHT OF ENTRY; INSPECTIONS; REFUSAL TO DELIVER DOG OR OTHER ANIMAL.
   The administrator, or his or her authorized representative, or any officer
of the law, may enter upon private premises to apprehend a straying dog or
other animal, a dangerous dog or other animal, or a dog or other animal thought
to be infected with rabies. If, after request by the administrator or his or
her authorized representative, the owner of such dog or other animal shall
refuse to deliver the dog or other animal to the officer, the owner shall be in
violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-8) (Ord. 688, passed 3-1-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.09 HARBORING STRAY ANIMALS RESTRICTED.
   No person shall harbor, keep, care for, feed, or allow to remain on his or
her property any stray domestic animal without notifying the administrator, his
or her representatives, or the animal control officer within 48 hours.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-9) (Ord. 688, passed 3-1-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.10 DISEASED OR INJURED ANIMALS.
   Any animal which does not exhibit a valid vaccination or registration tag
and which reveals the symptoms of an injury or disease, clearly not those of
rabies, as determined by the administrator or his or her designated agent, may
be subjected to disposal as provided in §
94.06 at the earliest possible time by the shelter personnel.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-10) (Ord. 688, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 94.11 ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR ACCIDENT OR DISEASE TO ANY DOG
OR CAT.
   The Chief of Police, his or her designated agent, animal control officer, or
any duly authorized agent enforcing the provisions of this chapter shall not be
held responsible for any accident or disease that may happen to any animal.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-11) (Ord. 688, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 94.12 ANIMAL CONSIDERED A NUISANCE.
   (A)   No person owning, possessing, or harboring any animal within the
village shall permit said animal to become a nuisance.
   (B)   An animal, other than a dog trained for law enforcement in the
performance of its duty, shall be considered a nuisance if said animal:
      (1)   Substantially damages property other than the owner’s;
      (2)   Causes unsanitary, dangerous, or unreasonably offensive conditions.
(This division (B)(2) does not apply to animals defined as “livestock”
according to the state statutes);
      (3)   Causes a disturbance by excessive barking, caterwauling, or other
noisemaking. (This division (B)(3) does not apply to animals defined as
“livestock” according to the state statutes;
      (4)   Chases vehicles;
      (5)   Chases, molests, attacks, bites, interferes with, or physically
intimidates any person while on or off the premises of the owner; or
      (6)   Chases, molests, attacks, bites, or interferes with other domestic
animals while off the premises of the owner.
   (C)   The Chief of Police, or his or her designated agent, or the animal
control officer, may, upon reasonable grounds, impound any animal creating a
nuisance by being in violation of divisions (B)(5) or (6) above.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-12) (Ord. 688, passed 3-1-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.13 INTERFERENCE WITH ANIMAL CONTROL PERSONNEL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct, impede, or interfere with
the Chief of Police, any of his or her designated agent(s), or the animal
control officer in the performance of their duties, or to prevent or attempt to
prevent any such officers from capturing or impounding any animal within the
village.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-13) (Ord. 688, passed 3-1-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.14 INOCULATION OF DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   Every owner of a dog or cat four months of age shall cause such dog or
cat to be inoculated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian annually or at
such intervals as hereafter may be promulgated by the village.
   (B)   Every owner of a dog or cat shall comply with the provisions of this
chapter. Each day a person fails to comply constitutes a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-14) (Ord. 688, passed 3-1-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.15 INOCULATION TAGS.
   (A)   The owner of a dog or cat shall, within ten days after such dog or cat
has been inoculated against rabies, procure an inoculation tag to be attached
to a collar or harness to be worn by the animal whenever the animal is not
confined in a secured enclosure.
   (B)   The village shall offer its citizens a non-transferable one-time
animal identification tag for the lifetime of the animal. The cost for the
identification tag shall be $10. The purpose of this voluntary fee is to
register said animal with the village, so that an expedited identification may
be made, if necessary, upon the animal’s separation from its owner. Any animal
found wearing the village identification tag, that has been separated from its
owner, will be held at the Brighton Police Department in order for the owner to
retrieve their animal. Any animal not retrieved within a limited time period,
will be transferred to the appropriate county animal control center. A
replacement tag shall be $5, which is also non-transferable.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-15) (Ord. 688, passed 3-1-2010; Ord. 2024-01, passed 3-4-
2024) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.16 CONFINEMENT OF ANIMAL THAT HAS BITTEN SOMEONE.
   (A)   When the Chief of Police, his or her designated agents, or the animal
control officer receives information that any person has been bitten by a dog
or other animal, the administrator, his or her designated agent, or animal
control officer shall have such dog or other animal confined under the
observation of a public animal control facility or at a licensed veterinarian
for a period of ten days. Such veterinarian shall report the clinical condition
of the dog or other animal immediately, with confirmation in writing to the
administrator within 24 hours after the dog or other animal is presented for
examination, giving the owner’s name, address, the date of confinement, the
breed, description, age, and sex of such dog or other animal, on appropriate
forms. The administrator shall notify the attending physician or responsible
health agency. At the end of the confinement period, the veterinarian shall
submit a written report to the administrator advising him or her of the final
disposition of such dog or other animal on appropriate forms.
   (B)   When evidence is presented that such dog or other animal was
inoculated against rabies within the time prescribed by law, it may be confined
in the house of its owner, or in a manner which will prohibit it from biting
any person for a period of ten days, if the administrator adjudges such
confinement satisfactory. At the end of the confinement period, such dog or
other animal shall be examined by the administrator, or a licensed
veterinarian.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-16) (Ord. 688, passed 3-1-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.17 DUTIES OF OWNERS OF RABID OR BITING ANIMALS.
   (A)   The owners of any dog or other animal which exhibits symptoms of
rabies and any dog or other animal in direct contact with such dog or other
animal, whether or not such dog or other animal has been vaccinated, shall
immediately notify the administrator and shall promptly confine such dog or
other animal, or have it confined, under suitable observation, for a period of
at least ten days, unless officially authorized by the administrator, in
writing, to release it sooner.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person having knowledge that any person has
been bitten by a dog or other animal to refuse to notify the administrator
promptly. It is unlawful for the owner of such dog or other animal to
euthanize, sell, give away, or otherwise dispose of any such dog or other
animal known to have bitten a person, until it is released by the
administrator, or his or her designated agent or animal control officer.
   (C)   It is unlawful for the owner of such dog or other animal to refuse or
fail to comply with the written or printed instructions made by the
administrator, or his or her designated agent or animal control officer. If
such instructions cannot be delivered in person, they shall be mailed to the
owner of such dog or other animal by regular mail, postage prepaid. The
affidavit or testimony of the administrator, or his or her designated agent,
delivering or mailing such instructions is prima facie evidence that the owner
of such dog or other animal was notified of his or her responsibilities.
   (D)   Any expense incurred in the handling of any dog or other animal under
this section shall be borne by the owner.
   (E)   For the purpose of this section, the word IMMEDIATELY means by
telephone, in person, or by other than use of the mail.
   (F)   (1)   Any dog or cat that bites a person may be microchipped before
the animal is released to the owner, or if the animal is already rabies
vaccinated and quarantined at home, the animal may be microchipped after the
ten-day quarantine period is finished.
      (2)   The owner is responsible for the microchip expense. In the event
the owner fails to comply with the provisions hereof, the dog or cat will be
impounded and owner charged for the impoundment fee, any boarding fees, and the
microchip fee.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-17) (Ord. 688, passed 3-1-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.18 REIMBURSEMENT TO ANIMAL BITE VICTIMS.
   The village shall not be obligated to pay to any person from any fund any
amount for the purchase of human rabies antiserum, the purchase of human
vaccine, any costs for the administration of the serum or vaccine or any amount
for medical care which may have been provided to human bite victims.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-18) (Ord. 688, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 94.19 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   Any animal running at large within the village whose capture endangers or
threatens the safety of the administrator, his or her designated agent, or
animal control officer, or endangers the safety of any person within the
village, may be dispatched by the administrator, his or her designated agents,
village police officer, or animal control officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-19) (Ord. 688, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 94.20 DETERMINATION OF VICIOUS DOG; DEFENSES.
   (A)   (1)   In order to have a dog deemed “vicious” as defined in this
chapter, the administrator, his or her designated agent, or animal control
officer must give notice of the infraction that is the basis of the
investigation to the owner. Said officers must:
         (a)   Conduct an investigation; and
         (b)   Make a report finding that the dog is a vicious dog.
      (2)   The administrator may impound said dog upon finding the dog is a
vicious dog. The administrator will determine where the animal shall be
confined during the pendency of the case.
   (B)   A dog may not be declared vicious if the administrator determines the
conduct of the dog was justified because of the following.
      (1)   The threat, injury, or death was sustained by a person who, at the
time, was committing a crime or offense upon the owner or custodian of the dog,
or upon the property of the owner or custodian of the dog.
      (2)   The injured, threatened, or killed person was abusing or assaulting
the dog.
      (3)   No dog shall be declared vicious if it is a professionally trained
dog for law enforcement in the performance of its duties. Vicious dogs shall
not be classified in a manner that is specific as to breed.
   (C)   If a dog is found to be a vicious dog, the administrator may order
said dog euthanized. No owner or keeper of a vicious dog shall sell, harbor,
keep, or give away any vicious dog.
   (D)   An animal impounded under this section will not be returned to the
owner if the animal is found to be vicious. Animal(s) subsequently found to be
vicious will be turned over by the village to an appropriate agent or agency
for humane dispatch.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-20) (Ord. 688, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 94.21 VICIOUS DOGS; CONTROL, IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any dog which has been found to be a vicious dog shall be impounded. If the
owner of the dog has not appealed the impoundment order to the Circuit Court in
the county in which the animal was impounded within seven working days, the dog
may be humanely dispatched. Upon filing a notice of appeal within seven working
days, the order of euthanasia shall be automatically stayed pending the outcome
of the appeal. The owner shall bear the burden of timely notification to the
village’s animal control officer in writing, and all cost of the stay of the
euthanasia order shall be borne by the owner. A dog found to be a vicious dog
will not be released to the owner until ordered by the Court.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-21) (Ord. 688, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 94.22 DANGEROUS DOGS; NUISANCE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   After a thorough investigation, including: sending notifications to
the owner of the alleged infractions within ten business days, and affording
the owner an opportunity to meet with the administrator, his or her designated
agents, or animal control officer prior to the making of a determination;
gathering of any medical or veterinary evidence; interviewing witnesses; and
making a written report, the administrator, his or her designated agent, or the
animal control officer may deem a dog to be “dangerous.” The owner shall be
sent immediate notification of the determination by registered or certified
mail that includes a description of the appeal process. A dog may not be
declared dangerous if the administrator, his or her designated agent, or the
animal control officer determines the conduct of the dog was justified because:
      (1)   The threat was sustained by a person who, at the time, was
committing a crime or offense upon the owner or custodian of the dog;
      (2)   The threatened person was abusing or assaulting the dog;
      (3)   The injured, threatened, or killed companion animal was attacking
or threatening to attack the dog or its offspring; or
      (4)   The dog was responding to pain or injury.
   (B)   If deemed dangerous, the administrator, or his or her designated
agent, or the animal control officer, may order:
      (1)   The dog to be spayed or neutered within seven days at the owner’s
expense and microchipped, if not already; and
      (2)   One or more of the following as deemed appropriate under the
circumstances, and necessary for the protection of the public:
         (a)   Evaluation of the dog by a certified appointed behaviorist, a
board-certified veterinary behaviorist or another recognized expert in the
field, and completion of training or other treatment as deemed appropriate by
the expert. The owner of the dog shall be responsible for all costs associated
with evaluation and training ordered under this division (B)(2)(a); and
         (b)   Direct supervision by an adult 18 years of age or older whenever
the animal is on public premises.
   (C)   The administrator, his or her designated agent, or animal control
officer may order a dangerous dog to be muzzled and leashed whenever it is off
the owner’s real property in a manner that will prevent it from biting any
person or animal, but that shall not injure the dog or interfere with its
vision or respiration.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to maintain a public nuisance by
permitting any dangerous dog or other animal to leave the premises of its owner
when not under control by leash or other recognized control methods.
   (E)   All owners or keepers of dogs found to be dangerous must post in clear
view at all times, and in the most conspicuous or prominent point of entry to
the owner’s premises, a sign indicating “DANGEROUS DOG ON THE PREMISES.” Such
sign shall be at least eight and one-half inches by 11 inches in size and shall
contain, in words and pictures, a clear indication that a dangerous dog is on
the premises.
   (F)   The administrator or animal control officer has the right to impound a
dangerous dog if the owner fails to comply with the requirements of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-22) (Ord. 688, passed 3-1-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.23 DANGEROUS DOGS; APPEAL.
   (A)   The owner of a dog found to be a dangerous dog pursuant to this
chapter may file a complaint in the Circuit Court, within 35 days of receipt of
notification of the determination, for a de novo hearing on the determination.
The proceeding shall be conducted as a civil hearing pursuant to the state’s
rules of evidence and the code of civil procedure, including the discovery
provisions. After hearing evidence from both parties, the Court shall make a
determination as to whether the dog is dangerous. The final order of the
Circuit Court may be appealed pursuant to the civil appeals provision of the
state’s Supreme Court rules.
   (B)   Until the order has been reviewed, and at all times during the appeal
process, the owner shall comply with the requirements set forth by the
administrator, his or her designated agent, or the animal control officer.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-23) (Ord. 688, passed 3-1-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.24 HUMANE CARE OF ANIMALS.
   No owner shall fail to provide his or her animal(s) with:
   (A)   Sufficient nutritious food;
   (B)   Fresh, clean water at all times;
   (C)   A shelter which has four sides, a roof, floor, and bedding. The
shelter shall be of sufficient size to permit such animal to stand up and turn
around inside when fully grown, and allow retention of body heat. The shelter
shall be placed to provide shade from the sun and protection from the weather;
and
   (D)   Regular and sufficient veterinary care to prevent suffering and
maintain health.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-24) (Ord. 688, passed 3-1-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.25 ABANDONMENT OF ANIMAL UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to abandon any animal within the village.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-25) (Ord. 688, passed 3-1-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.26 ACTS OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   Unless justifiable in defense of person or property, no person shall:
   (A)   Kill, wound, or attempt to kill or wound, or poison, any domestic
animal;
   (B)   Put to death any domestic animal except by euthanasia under the
supervision of a licensed veterinarian of the state;
   (C)   Beat, cruelly mistreat, torment, overload, overwork, or otherwise
abuse a domestic animal;
   (D)   Cause, instigate, permit, or attend any dogfight, cockfight,
bullfight, or other combat between animals and humans;
   (E)   Crop an animal’s ears, an animal’s tail, or perform similar surgeries
except by a licensed veterinarian of the state; or
   (F)   Allow any animal to remain unattended in a motor vehicle when the
animal’s life, health, or safety is threatened.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-26) (Ord. 688, passed 3-1-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.27 DISEASED AND INJURED ANIMALS.
   (A)   No diseased or sickly horse, cow, hog, dog, cat, or other animal, nor
any that has been exposed to any disease that is contagious among such animals,
shall be brought into the village unless under veterinary care.
   (B)   Any animal, being in any street, highway, or public place within the
village, appearing in the judgment of the administrator, his or her designated
agent, or animal control officer to be injured or diseased and past recovery
for any useful purpose, and not being attended and properly cared for by the
owner or some proper person to have charge thereof for the owner, and not
having been removed to some private premises or to some place designated by
such officer or animal control officer within an hour after being found or left
in such condition, may be humanely dispatched by such officer, or as he or she
may direct.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-27) (Ord. 688, passed 3-1-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.28 KEEPING ANIMALS OTHER THAN DOMESTICATED PETS.
   (A)   No person shall keep, harbor, or allow to be kept within the village
any lion, tiger, leopard, ocelot, jaguar, cheetah, margay, mountain lion, lynx,
bobcat, jaguarundi, bear, hyena, wolf, wolf hybrid, venomous reptile, or other
creature normally wild and dangerous to human life. It is no defense to a
violation of this chapter that the owner or keeper of the same has attempted to
domesticate it.
   (B)   Any of the foregoing maintained by a zoological park, animal control
facility, federally licensed exhibit, veterinary hospital, or educational
institution shall not be regulated by the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   No person shall keep, harbor, or allow to be kept within the village
any cattle, cows, horses, sheep, swine, goats, or other livestock. There shall
be a $25 permit fee to keep chickens, ducks, or rabbits within the village
limits. This provision shall not apply to those portions of the village that
are zoned agricultural nor shall it apply to livestock brought into the village
for the purpose of being shipped out of the village.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-28)
   (D)   (1)   It shall be unlawful and is hereby declared a nuisance for any
person to keep or allow to be kept any animal of the species of horse, mule,
swine, sheep, goat, cattle, poultry (with the exception of chickens, ducks,
quail, pheasant, pigeons, and rabbits as herein provided), skunks, or poisonous
reptiles within the limits of the village.
         (a)   It shall be unlawful to keep roosters within village limits.
         (b)   Allowable animals shall be deemed “hobby animals.”
         (c)   The number of allowable fowl shall be no less than two, and no
more than six.
         (d)   The number of rabbits shall not exceed ten.
         (e)   Any structures housing hobby animals shall be termed an
“accessory structure.”
         (f)   Applicants shall register with Village Hall obtaining annual
permit and have proof of registration on-site. There shall be a registration
fee of $25 per year.
         (g)   Care for hobby animals shall follow the provisions set forth in
this chapter.
            1.   Hobby animals shall be kept in such a way so as not to cause a
nuisance.
            2.   Hobby animal runs, yards and coops shall be constructed and
maintained to reasonably prevent the collection of standing water; and shall be
cleaned of droppings, uneaten or discarded feed, feathers, and other waste with
such frequency as is necessary to ensure the yard, coop, and pen do not become
nuisances.
               a.   Coops, pens, and yards shall be large enough to provide at
least four square feet per animal.
               b.   The coop must be built to provide ventilation, shade,
protection from precipitation, protection from cold weather and to be secure
from predators, wild birds, and rodents.
               c.   Openings in windows and doors must be covered by wire mesh
or screens to deter predators.
               d.   Access doors must be sized and placed for ease of cleaning.
               e.   The enclosed run must be attached to the coop or must
surround the coop. The sides of the run must be made of fencing or wire mesh
that discourages predators.
               f.   The run must be enclosed on all sides, including the top or
roof plane.
               g.   Odors from pens, manure or related substances shall not be
detectable from property lines. Manure must be stored and disposed of. Manure
may be composted. All manure not composted must be removed from property
regularly.
            3.   Licenses for coops must be obtained and shall meet the rules
of this chapter where applicable.
               a.   Prior to a license being granted to an applicant, the
applicant must show proof of notice to all adjacent landowners except
landowners that are municipalities or utilities.
               b.   Coops over 120 square feet will require a building permit.
               c.   A license shall not be granted unless the applicant has
obtained all necessary building permits and can show proof that a pen, yard,
and coop that comply with this section have been erected.
               d.   The chicken coop and run shall be located in the rear of
the residential structure. The pen, coop, and run are allowed in the rear yard,
but not the side or front yards.
               e.   The coop and run shall be located at least five feet from
the property line and at least 25 feet from any dwelling.
               f.   Coop licenses shall not run with the land.
               g.   Licenses will only be granted to persons who reside on
parcels with single-family dwellings. An applicant who lives in an apartment,
multi-family units, or condominium building is not eligible to receive a hobby
animal license.
               h.   The village may deny a license to any person who:
                  i.   Owes money to the village; or
                  ii.   Has, in the last five years prior to application for a
license under this Section been convicted or plead guilty to any code violation
of animals, nuisance, noise, property maintenance, or zoning.
                  iii.   If the licensee is found to be in violation of this
section or of cruelty to animals, the license will be immediately and
permanently revoked.
                  iv.   Applications shall be submitted to the Village Clerk’s
office.
                  v.   No person shall slaughter any hobby animal within
village limits in view of the public.
                  vi.   No Hobby Animal shall be permitted to run at large. All
animals shall be kept in a designated coop or run. Hobby Animals may be allowed
to exercise in a rear yard with’a six (6) foot or higher fence with
supervision.
                  vii.   No lawfully owned cat or dog shall be deemed
dangerous, vicious or otherwise punished for attacking or killing any Hobby
Animal allowed to run astray whether by accident or design.
                  viii.   Any resident currently owning a designated hobby
animal shall have 90 days from enactment of this section to comply with all the
provisions set forth.
                  ix.   If the licensee is found to be in violation of these
standards three or more times, the license will be immediately and permanently
revoked.
                  x.   Pens, coops and runs riot maintained according to this
Section shall be deemed a public nuisance and the license Will be immediately
and permanently revoked.
                  xi.   Any person found to be in violation of this section
shall be fined not less than $100, nor more than $750 for each offense. Each
day an owner is not compliant with this section shall constitute a separate
offense.
      (2)   This division shall not apply in areas of the village that are
zoned agricultural in nature nor shall this section apply to livestock brought
into the village for the purpose of being shipped out of the village.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-8) (Ord. 688, passed 3-1-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.29 NO FERAL CAT COLONIES ALLOWED.
   No person shall feed, keep, harbor, permit, or start up any feral cat
colonies in the village. Such cats shall be impounded and euthanized.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-29) (Ord. 688, passed 3-1-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.30 FEMALE DOGS AND CATS IN HEAT.
   Every owner of a female dog or cat shall cause such dog or cat to be
confined in a secured enclosure while in heat.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-30) (Ord. 688, passed 3-1-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.31 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   (A)   Unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any person owning or possessing a
dog or cat to permit such dog or cat to go upon any sidewalk, parkway, or
private lands or premises without the permission of the owner of such premises,
and break, bruise, tear up, crush, or injure any lawn, flowerbed, plant, shrub,
tree, or garden in any manner whatsoever, or to defecate thereon.
   (B)   Waste product accumulations. It shall be unlawful for any person to
cause or permit a dog or cat to be on property, public or private, not owned or
possessed by such person, unless such person has in his or her immediate
possession an appropriate device for scooping excrement and an appropriate
depository for the transmission of excrement to a receptacle located upon
property owned or possessed by such person. This section shall not apply to a
person who is visually or physically handicapped.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-31) (Ord. 688, passed 3-1-2010) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.32 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS KEPT; NUISANCE.
   (A)   Nuisance.
      (1)   The keeping of an unlimited number of dogs and cats in the village
for a considerable period of time detracts from and, in many instances, is
detrimental to the healthful and comfortable life for which such areas were
created.
      (2)   The keeping of an unlimited number of dogs and cats is, therefore,
declared to be a public nuisance. The terms DOG and CAT shall be construed as
provided in §
94.02.
   (B)   Limitation; exception.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to keep more than
three dogs or cats within the village, with the exception that a litter of
pups, a litter of kittens, or a portion of a litter may be kept for a period of
time not exceeding five months from birth.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any establishment
wherein dogs or cats are kept for breeding, sale, sporting purposes, or
boarding.
   (C)   Kennels. In the areas where kennels are permitted, no kennel shall be
located closer than 200 feet to the boundary of the nearest adjacent
residential lot. (See Zoning Code, Chapter 155.)
(Prior Code, § 3-2-7)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found guilty of a violation of this chapter in a court of law
shall be subject to the following fines:
   (A)   First offense: not less than $100, nor more than $750;
   (B)   Second offense: not less than $200, nor more than $750;
   (C)   Third offense: not less than $300, nor more than $750;
   (D)   Fourth offense: not less than $500, nor more than $750; and
   (E)   Fifth offense: not less than $750.
(Prior Code, § 5-5-32) (Ord. 688, passed 3-1-2010)
APPENDIX A: LIFE OF PET TAG REGISTRATION
LIFE OF PET TAG REGISTRATION (PLEASE PRINT)
Owner’s Name: ____________________________________   Phone Number:
__________________
Address:
__________________________________________________________________________
• Pet’s name: ____________________________ Age: ___________ Sex: F / M   Spay /
Neuter
Breed: ______________________________ Color/Markings:
____________________________
Tag Issued: ______________________
Owner’s Name: ____________________________________   Phone Number:
__________________
Address:
__________________________________________________________________________
• Pet’s name: ____________________________ Age: ___________ Sex: F / M   Spay /
Neuter
Breed: ______________________________ Color/Markings:
____________________________
Tag Issued: ______________________
Owner’s Name: ____________________________________   Phone Number:
__________________
Address:
__________________________________________________________________________
• Pet’s name: ____________________________ Age: ___________ Sex: F / M   Spay /
Neuter
Breed: ______________________________ Color/Markings:
____________________________
Tag Issued: ______________________
Registering your dog with the Village of Brighton may help us locate your pet
in the event it gets lost. If you move or change your phone number, please
contact the Village Clerk to update. If the owner of the dog is not located, it
will be taken into custody by County Animal Control. Harboring (feed, allow on
property, or keep) stray animals is prohibited per Municipal Code 5-5-
9 ordinance 688. Persons found guilty of violating any animal control
ordinances are subject to fines.
$10.00 per Pet Tag
Owner’s Signature: _________________________________________________________   
Date: _________________
Clerk Signature: ____________________________________________________________
APPENDIX B: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT TO OWN FOWL AND/OR RABBITS
 
Date of Application:        Application Fee: $25.00
Applicant(s) Name: (Please not that the applicant must be the animal owner)
 
Address of Proposed Location of Coop and Run: (Applicant must be resident of
single family dwelling at this address.)
 
Applicant’s Phone Number:Applicant’s Email:
                           
 
Indicate the type of animals that will be owned by applicant: (Note: no less
than 2 and no more than 6 fowl; no more than 10 rabbits).
Chickens      Ducks      Quail      Pheasants      Pigeons      Rabbits
__________________ I have submitted Surrounding Property Owner Acknowledgment
form.
Is the address of the proposed Coop and/or Run part of an HOA.
(Circle one)      NO      YES
If Yes, provide current written approval from HOA.
I attest that I have been provided with a copy of the Village of Brighton
Ordinance and am familiar with the contents therein. I will comply with the
Village Ordinance and any amendments that may be implemented.
I attest that failure to comply with the Village Ordinance may result in fines
and/or revocation of your permit.
_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
Applicant(s) signature                                          Date         
 
OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Permit No. _________________         Fee (cash, heck, credit) ________________
 
Date Received ____________________         Building permit required (Y/N) ______
 
Inspection Date: _______________________      Inspector Signature:_________________________
 
Pass                  Fail                     Incomplete
   
-OVER-
Applicant’s Proof of Notice to All Adjacent Landowners and Abutting/Adjacent
Lot Owners within 100 Feet of My Property
In the space below, provide the name(s) and address(es) of the adjacent
landowners, and abutting/adjacent lot owners, that you provided notice to, in
accordance with the Village of Brighton Ordinance 3-2-8, Animal, Etc. in
Village.
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
By signing my name below, I hereby affirm I have provided notice to the above
named landowners and I understand if any landowner(s) has not been notified, as
required by Village Ordinance, my permit shall be revoked and I will forfeit
return of my registration fee.
______________________________________________      _______________________________________________
Date: _________________________________________      Date:
__________________________________________
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
      
111.   AMUSEMENTS
      
112.   ALCOHOL, TOBACCO, AND OTHER DRUGS
      
113.   PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
Section
Structures/Buildings for Businesses
   
110.01   General building requirement
   
110.02   Building maintenance
   
110.03   Persons subject to license
   
110.04   Application
   
110.05   Investigation
   
110.06   Issuance of building license
   
110.07   Business license fee
   
110.08   Revocation and/or termination of business license
   
110.09   Multiple businesses
   
110.10   Building and premises
   
110.11   Change of location
   
110.12   Generally
 
   
110.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Application for business license/registration
   
Appendix B:   Application to conduct a raffle; license
STRUCTURES/BUILDINGS FOR BUSINESSES
§ 110.01 GENERAL BUILDING REQUIREMENT.
   Businesses shall be conducted in or from permanent buildings or nonpermanent
buildings that will be located in the village for a minimum of 30 consecutive
days.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-1-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 BUILDING MAINTENANCE.
   The duty of every person, firm, or corporation which maintains any building
or establishment for the conduct of any business or occupation to which the
public is invited or is permitted to enter shall be to keep and maintain any
and all such buildings and establishments:
   (A)   In a safe condition;
   (B)   Free from accumulations of refuse, waste, and junk;
   (C)   Free from stored waste paper, cartons, boxes, or other flammable
material;
   (D)   In a clean and sanitary condition, free from flies, rodents, vermin,
and disease-carrying animals, insects, decaying animal and/or plant matter in/
on and around such premises;
   (E)   In good repair, so that persons entering therein will not be injured
by reason of any defects therein;
   (F)   Free from unsanitary, unsafe, or dangerous conditions; and
   (G)   Free from any substance, matter, or thing that would be dangerous or
detrimental to the health and safety of the public.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-1-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE.
   (A)   Every person, firm, or corporation maintaining, operating, or
conducting any business or establishment within the corporate limits of this
municipality, not otherwise specifically licensed under this title, and not
otherwise preempted from municipal licensing requirements by state statutes,
shall be required to have a business license.
   (B)   Whenever a license or permit is required in this title or in any
municipal ordinance for the maintenance, operation, or conduct of any business
or establishment, or for doing business or engaging in any activity or
occupation, any person, firm, or corporation shall be subject to the
requirement if by himself, herself, or itself, or through an agent, employee,
or partner, he, she, or it is held forth as being engaged in patronage therefor
actively or passively; or if he, she, or it performs or attempts to perform any
part of such business, activity, or occupation in this municipality.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation not subject to licensing under this
section, by reason of state statute preemption, shall nevertheless have the
opportunity to voluntarily subscribe for a license and voluntarily pay the
prescribed business license fee in the same fashion as all other businesses.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-1-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 APPLICATION.
   (A)   All applications required by this subchapter shall be made in writing
on a form supplied by the Village Clerk.
   (B)   Said form shall state:
      (1)   The name of the applicant;
      (2)   The type of business or occupation in which the applicant intends
to engage;
      (3)   The location of the building or establishment;
      (4)   The zoning district, if any;
      (5)   The anticipated business hours;
      (6)   The fee to be paid;
      (7)   The signature of the applicant; and
      (8)   Any such additional information as may be needed by the Village
Clerk in the issuance of the license.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 110.05 INVESTIGATION.
   Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit, where an
investigation or inspection is required by ordinance before the issuance of
such permit or license, or where an inspection or investigation shall be deemed
reasonably necessary or appropriate, the Village Clerk, within 48 hours, shall
refer the application to the appropriate officials(s) for the making of such
investigation or inspection. The official(s) to whom the application has been
referred shall make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten days
after receiving such application or a copy thereof.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 110.06 ISSUANCE OF BUSINESS LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   If, after due consideration of the information contained with
the application and related investigative reports, the corporate authorities
shall determine that the matters concerning the application do not meet the
standards set forth by this code, they shall object to the issuance of a
business license. Any objections shall be immediately given by written notice
to the applicant informing them of the objection(s).
      (2)   The matter shall then be referred to the Board of Trustees and the
applicant shall be entitled to a hearing before such Board at the next
scheduled Village Board of Trustee meeting, provided it is within the time
limitations of the Open Meetings Act, being 5 ILCS 120.
   (B)   (1)   All licenses issued pursuant to this subchapter shall bear the
signature of the Mayor and Village Clerk. No license shall be valid until
signed, nor shall any person be deemed to be licensed until the same shall have
been issued to him or her in due form.
      (2)   All licenses which have not been revoked as of the date of
expiration thereof shall be renewed automatically upon application therefor and
the payment of the license fee.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 110.07 BUSINESS LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   All fees and charges for licenses or permits shall be paid in advance
at the time application therefor is made to the Village Clerk in the amount
prescribed. The annual business license or permit shall be granted for a period
of one year, from July 1 of one year to June 30 of the following year, upon
payment of the annual fee, which shall also coincide with the village’s fiscal
year. When an applicant has not engaged in the business or activity until after
the expiration of the current license year, the license fee shall be prorated
by quarters and the fee paid for each quarter or fraction thereof during which
the business or activity has been or will be conducted.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided, all license and permit fees shall become
a part of the Corporate Fund.
   (C)   In no event shall any rebate or refund be made of any license or
permit fee, or part thereof, by reason of death or departure of the licensee or
permittee; nor shall any rebate or refund be made by reason on non-use of the
license or discontinuance of the operation or conduct of the licensed
establishment, business, or activity.
   (D)   The annual fee shall be $50 unless it is provided for otherwise.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-1-2021; Ord. 2023-7, passed 2-6-2023)
§ 110.08 REVOCATION AND/OR TERMINATION OF BUSINESS LICENSE.
   All annual licenses shall be operative and the license year for this
municipality shall commence on July 1 of each year and shall terminate on June
30 of the following year, where no provisions to the contrary are made. The
Village Clerk shall notify all licensees of this municipality of the time of
expiration of the license held by the licensee (if an annual) three weeks prior
to the date of such expiration. Provided, however, that failure to make such
notification or the failure of the licensee to received it shall not excuse the
licensee from the obligation to obtain a new license, or renewal thereof, nor
shall it be a defense in an action based upon operation with a license. Any
license hereunder may be revoked by the Board of Trustees of said village at
any time for any violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 110.09 MULTIPLE BUSINESSES.
   In all cases where a person, firm, or corporation is engaged in more than
one type of business or occupation license under this subchapter in the same
building or establishment, only one license fee shall be charged; provided
however, that where different businesses or occupations are operated in
different buildings or establishments, a separate license shall be issued and a
separate fee paid for each building and establishment.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-1-2021)
§ 110.10 BUILDING AND PREMISES.
   All businesses or occupations shall be conducted from permanent buildings or
nonpermanent buildings, situated for a minimum of 30 days, which are in
compliance with all applicable building codes. No license shall be issued for
any purpose or activity if the premises and building to be used for the purpose
do not fully comply with all applicable ordinances and regulations of this
municipality and the state. No such license or permit shall be issued for the
conduct of any businesses or performance of any act which would involve a
violation of the Zoning Code and/or other applicable regulations of this
municipality.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-1-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.11 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   The location of any licensed business or occupation, or the location of any
permitted act, may be changed, provided that ten days’ notice thereof is given
to the Village Clerk, in the absence of any provision to the contrary; provided
further, however, that all applicable ordinances and regulations of this
municipality shall be complied with.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-1-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.12 GENERALLY.
   No business or establishment, whether licensed or not, shall be so conducted
or operated as to constitute a nuisance in fact, and no building, vehicle, or
structure, yard, lot, premises, or part thereof shall be used, kept,
maintained, or operated in connection with any business or establishment so as
to occasion any nuisance or so as to be dangerous to life or detrimental to
health.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-1-2021) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation found guilty of violating any of the
provisions of §§
110.01 to 110.12 shall be fined not less than $75 nor more than $750, and each
day such violation is permitted to occur or continue shall be considered a
separate offense.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 3-1-2021)
APPENDIX A: APPLICATION FOR BUSINESS LICENSE/REGISTRATION
VILLAGE OF BRIGHTON
APPLICATION FOR BUSINESS LICENSE/REGISTRATION
BUSINESS INFORMATION                       LICENCE # ISSUED:
Business name:                             Email:
Business Address:                          Business Phone:
Business Type: Sales Tax # and Classification:
Years in Business: Hours of Operation:     Insurance Co.:
Zoned: Signage: YES NO County Business License #:            
APPLICANT INFORMATION:                  
Name:                                      Phone:
Address:                                   Citizenship:
Length at above address:       DOB:  SS#:
Marital Status:            Name f Spouse:
Residences for the last 3yrs
if different from above:                    
 
Have you ever been convicted of a felony? YES NO
List last 3 municipalities where applicant has carried on business:
 
 
Have you ever has a license in the Village of Brighton? YES NO When:   
Have you ever had a license revoked? YES NO If ‘yes’, explain:
County Health Department Inspection Must Accompany This Application      
I agree to keep my business in a safe condition by maintaining any and all
buildings, keeping it free from accumulation of refuse, waste, and junk,
stored wastepaper, cartons, boxes, and other flammable material. I agree to
clean and sanitary conditions, free from flies, rodents, vermin, insects,
decaying animal or plant matter. The business shall be kept in good repair so
that persons are not injured by reason of any defects, unsafe or dangerous
conditions, or substance or thing that would be dangerous to the health and
safety of the public.
SIGNATURE OF APPLICANT                        Date:
$50.00 BUSINESS LICENSE FEE-Payable to the Village of Brighton   Date:
 
License shall expire on June 30th.          
Zoning Inspector Signature                    Date:
(New Application Only)
APPENDIX B: APPLICATION TO CONDUCT A RAFFLE; LICENSE
Date: _____________________
Name/Address of Organization:
_________________________________________________________________________
Phone: ______________________________________   Email Address:
______________________________________
Type of Organization:
_________________________________________________________________________________
            (Religious, charitable, labor, fraternal, veterans, etc.)
1.   Is the organization a charitable organization which is a 501(C)(3)
organization as defined by the United States Internal Revenue Service? PLEASE
CIRCLE ONE
   Yes - No fee unless item retail is over $1,000 (Must provide a copy of IRS
determination letter.)
   No - If no, see below
2.   Is the aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise to be awarded
by a licensee in a single raffle less than $1,000.00? PLEASE CIRCLE ONE
   YES-A fixed fee of $25.00
   No - A fixed fee $50.00 per raffle
In making this Application, the above-named organization states as follows:
   1.   That the geographic area in which the raffle is to be conducted is
within the boundaries of the corporate limits of the Village of Brighton.
   2.   The aggregate retail value of all prizes/merchandise
$_______________________________________________
   3.   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded
$_________________________________________________
   4.   The cost of raffle chance
$_____________________________________________________________________
   5.   Beginning date of sale of raffle
chances__________________________________________________________
Ending date of sale of raffle
chances_____________________________________________________________
   6.   Place/Address of
Raffle________________________________________________________________________
   7.   Proceeds of raffle will be used for:
_____________________________________________________________
   8.   Names of persons conducting the raffle:
      • _____________________________________________________
      • _____________________________________________________
      • _____________________________________________________
   9.   Addresses where raffle tickets will be sold:
________________________________________________________
      ____________________________________________________________________________________________
Signature of Applicant:
______________________________________________________   Date:
_____________________
Approved By:
_____________________________________________________________   Date:
_____________________
VILLAGE OF BRIGHTON
APPLICATION FOR RAFFLE LICENSE
SWORN STATEMENT
      The following officers attest to the not-for-profit character of the
applicant organization.
_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
(NAME OF ORGANIZATION)
      Dated this _______________________ day of
__________________________________, ________.
                                       ____________________________________________
                                       PRESIDING OFFICER
                                       ____________________________________________
                                       SECRETARY
STATE OF ILLINOIS                  )
                           )   ss.
COUNTIES OF JERSEY AND MACOUPIN         )
      Signed and sworn to before me this _______________ day of
________________________________, ______.
___________________________________________         ________________________________________________
PRESIDING OFFICER                        SECRETARY
 
                                    ________________________________________________
                                    NOTARY PUBLIC
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
111.01   Mechanical amusement devices
   
111.02   Video gaming machines
   
111.03   Video game terminals
 
   
111.99   Penalty
   Appendix A:   Application for video game license
§ 111.01 MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE or DEVICE.
         (a)   Any machine which, upon the insertion of a coin or slug,
operates or may be operated as a game or contest of skill or amusement of any
description and which contains no automatic payoff device or which provides for
no such payoff by any other means and which, in itself, does not constitute a
gambling device.
         (b)   MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE shall also include any machine or
apparatus which is used or may be used as a game of skill or amusement and in
which the player propels any ball or other device by any force exerted by
himself or herself, or in which the player uses or directs any force generated
by the DEVICE itself. No such DEVICE operated by coins or slugs which gives the
player less than three balls for any one coin or slug shall be licensed or
permitted.
         (c)   MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE shall also include juke boxes,
victrolas, and similar music playing amusement devices.
   (B)   License required; conditions; term. No person, firm, corporation,
partnership, association, or club shall cause to be placed upon premises under
its ownership, management, or control any mechanical amusement device, as
defined in division (A) above, without first having applied for and received a
license, setting forth the number and type of mechanical devices to be
maintained on the premises. The license shall list thereon all of the devices
that are covered thereunder. The fiscal year shall be considered the license
year. A similar license giving the same information shall be required of any
poolroom operator.
   (C)   License fee. The annual fee for such license shall be $50 per year or
part thereof for each coin-operated amusement device set up for operation,
leased, or distributed to a proprietor.
   (D)   Application; posting; license nontransferable.
      (1)   Any person, proprietor, or club desiring to secure a license for a
device or devices, as defined in division (A) above, shall file with the
Village Clerk an application, obtainable from the Clerk, setting forth the name
and address of the applicant, the description of the device or devices,
including the factory serial number or numbers applicable to each device, or
other distinguishing identification, and the denomination of the coin or coins
required for the operation of each device. Said application shall be signed by
the applicant.
      (2)   No license shall be issued until the fees are fully paid.
      (3)   All licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the
establishment of the licensee.
      (4)   Such license shall be nonassignable and nontransferable and shall
apply only to the premises for which the license is issued.
   (E)   Evidence of ownership; tag or decal. The Village Clerk shall issue
either a number tag or a decal serially numbered for each device licensed
hereunder. Any such number tag or decal shall at all times be firmly affixed to
such devices in a conspicuous place, and no tag shall be transferred from one
device to another. Any transfer of ownership or change of location shall be
filed with the Village Clerk.
   (F)   Devices kept in plain view; gambling devices prohibited. All such
devices shall at all times be kept and placed in plain view of any person who
may frequent or be in any place of business where such devices are kept or
used. Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize, permit, or
license any gambling device of any nature whatsoever which is prohibited by the
ordinances of the village or by the laws of the state.
   (G)   Juke boxes; noise; indecent selections. No immoral or indecent
selections shall be played upon juke boxes or victrolas, nor shall juke boxes
or victrolas be placed at any location immediately adjacent to any place where
convalescents shall be lodged or housed. Each such music playing device shall
be installed with a volume control to enable the instrument to be played in
such manner that it will not disturb the peace and quiet or annoy the immediate
neighborhood by reason of loud and unreasonable noise.
   (H)   Inspection. The village, through its officers, agents, and employees,
shall have the right to enter at all times any establishment, place, or
building in which any such device or devices are operated or set up for
operation and to inspect, investigate, and test such devices.
   (I)   Revocation of license. All licenses issued hereunder may be revoked by
the Village Board whenever, in its judgment, the public welfare requires such
revocation. The acceptance of any license under this section shall constitute
an agreement between the parties to such license, even though the license
itself does not state such fact, that the same may be revoked.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-1) (Ord. 304, passed 7-11-1966; Ord. 2022-02, passed 4-4-
2023) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 VIDEO GAMING MACHINES.
   (A)   Application for license; fee. Any person desiring a license to operate
video gaming machines shall file an application with the Village Clerk and pay
to the Village Clerk an annual fee for each alley, machine, or table, as
follows.
 
Video game machine (only gambling) $50 per machine
 
   (B)   Term of license. All such licenses shall expire on June 1 next after
their issuance, and when application is made after January 1 of any year, the
license fee shall be the proportionate part of the annual rate fixed by this
section.
   (C)   Closing hours. Every person who shall have a license under the
provisions of this section to operate bowling alleys, billiard tables, pool
tables, or tables kept for similar purposes shall close his or her place of
business not later than 1:00 a.m. and shall not reopen the same before 6:00
a.m., with the exception of Sunday, when the opening hour shall not be earlier
than 1:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2) (Ord. 185, passed 5-3-1948) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 VIDEO GAME TERMINALS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      LICENSEE. Include all of the establishments defined in this division (A).
      VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL, LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT, LICENSED FRATERNAL
ESTABLISHMENT, LICENSED VETERANS ESTABLISHMENT, and LICENSED TRUCK STOP
ESTABLISHMENT has the meanings set forth in the State Video Gaming Act (230
ILCS 40/1 et seq.).
   (B)   Imposition of annual fee. Commencing upon adoption of the ordinance
from which this section is derived, an annual fee of $50 is hereby imposed upon
each video gaming terminal operated by a licensed establishment, licensed
fraternal establishment, licensed veterans establishment, or licensed truck
stop establishment within the village in accordance with the provisions of the
State Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq. (the “Act”). The fee paid for
each video gaming terminal shall be for the fiscal year May 1 through April 30,
and any fee paid during a fiscal year shall apply until the end of the fiscal
year in which paid. Any continuing operation of a video gaming terminal shall
require the payment of a new annual fee on or before June 30 of each year for
the ensuing fiscal year.
   (C)   Application for permit. Every licensee shall make application to the
Village Clerk’s office for $50 a permit, and shall pay the annual fee for video
gaming permit. The application shall designate the name of the licensee, the
location of the licensed establishment operating the video gaming terminal, the
number of video gaming terminals operated at that location, and shall include a
copy of the license issued by the state for the operation of the video gaming
terminal. No permit shall be issued to any person whose video gaming terminal
is not licensed by the state for the location for which the permit is sought.
   (D)   Limitations upon placement. No video gaming terminal permit shall be
issued to, and no video gaming terminal shall be placed or operated from
within, a location that does not also have issued to it a license for the sale
of alcoholic beverages at retail by the drink for consumption on the premises.
As of the passage of the ordinance from which this section is derived, not more
than six video gaming terminals shall be allowed, nor permits be issued
therefor, under this section for each licensee at any one location. However,
the current number of six video gaming terminals may be automatically adjusted
in accordance with the number established by the state legislature from time to
time.
   (E)   Play by minors prohibited. No person under the age of 21 years shall
be permitted to use or play a video gaming terminal, and any licensee who shall
suffer or permit a person under the age of 21 years to use or play a video
gaming terminal shall be subject to a fine or have his or her licenses issued
under this section suspended or revoked.
   (F)   Inspection of records. Each licensee shall permit the inspection of
the books and records of the license pertaining to and reflecting operation of
each video gaming terminal of the licensee at the request of any law
enforcement officer of the village or the state at all reasonable times.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 5-4-2020) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
111.02 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $200 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-1-2)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating the provisions of §
111.03 by operation of a video gaming terminal without having obtained the
permit and paid the annual fee therefor, or by operating a video gaming
terminal in violation of any provision of §
111.03, shall be guilty of a petty offense, and shall be fined an amount not to
exceed $500 for each such offense, and the license or licenses shall be subject
to suspension or revocation as herein provided. Each day that a video gaming
terminal is operated in violation of §
111.03 shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 185, passed 5-3-1948; Ord. 2020-05, passed 5-4-2020)
APPENDIX A: APPLICATION FOR VIDEO GAME LICENSE
                                                Date: ________________
   The undersigned hereby certifies (certify) to the following facts:
1.   Applicant’s (exact) corporate name:
_________________________________________________
2.   Business Mailing Address:
________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________________
3.   Business Physical Address:
      a.   _______________________________________________________________________
               (exact address by street and number)
      b.   ______________________________________________________________________
                  (telephone number)
4.   Number of Video Game Terminals to be operated:
_____________________________________
5.   Name of Licensed Video Gaming Terminal Operator:
__________________________________
6.   Have you made application for a similar license for premises other than
described in this location? ________________________ If so, give date, location
of premises and disposition of application:
___________________________________________________________________________________________________
7.   Has any license previously issued to you by State, Federal or Local
authorities been revoked?
Yes_____ No _____ If yes, state reasons therefore and date of revocation.
____________________________________________________________________________________________________
8.   Current Valid Liquor License number:
_______________________________________________________________
      **Please submit the following with application:
            a.   A copy of valid Illinois Gaming Board License            
            b.   A copy of valid Illinois Liquor License
            c.   A nonrefundable $50.00 Application Fee
            d.   A nonrefundable $25.00 per Terminal Fee
               *Each Video Gaming Terminal License will expire annually on June
30th.
               *Other Game Items: Pool Table(s) $10.00 Each Annually.
AFFIDAVIT
State of Illinois         )
Counties of Macoupin & Jersey ) SS.
The undersigned swear (or affirm) that the corporation in whose name this
application is being made will not violate any of the ordinances of the Village
of Brighton or the Laws of the State of Illinois or of the United States of
America in the conduct of the place of business described herein and that the
statements contained in this application are true and correct to the best of
our knowledge and belief (any intentional misrepresentations submitted may be
cause for denial of the license).
Dated this ______________ day __________of ____________
__________________________________________Owner
                                             Signature
                                    
_________________________________________Owner
                                                Signature
_________________________________________________________________
               Village Clerk
                                                     (Village Corporate Seal)
 
_______________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Gaming License Application Must Be Completed Each Year
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOL, TOBACCO, AND OTHER DRUGS
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Possession and sale of illegal drugs and drug paraphernalia
   
112.02   Synthetic alternative drugs
Alcohol
   
112.15   Definitions
   
112.16   State law applicable
   
112.17   Application for license
   
112.18   Ineligibility
   
112.19   License classification; number; fees
   
112.20   Term and prorating fee
   
112.21   Transfer of license
   
112.22   Closing hours
   
112.23   Inspection of premises
   
112.24   Sales to certain persons; minors restricted
   
112.25   Consumption on public or private property
   
112.26   View from street
Tobacco and Smokeless Tobacco Products
   
112.40   Purchase or possession by underage persons
   
112.41   Sale of tobacco to minors; location of vending machines
   
112.42   Distribution of smokeless tobacco products to underage persons
   
112.43   Revocation of license
 
   
112.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Application for local liquor license
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 POSSESSION AND SALE OF ILLEGAL DRUGS AND DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CANNABIS. Has the meaning ascribed to it by 720 ILCS 550/3 of the
Cannabis Control Act, as if that definition were incorporated herein.
      CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the meaning ascribed to it in § 102 of the
State Controlled Substances Act, being 720 ILCS 570/120, as if that definition
were incorporated herein.
      DELIVER or DELIVERY. The actual constructive, or attempted transfer, of
possession, with or without consideration, whether or not there is an agency
relationship.
      DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products, and materials of any kind,
other than methamphetamine manufacturing materials as defined in § 10 of the
Methamphetamine Control and Community Protection Act, which are intended to be
used unlawfully in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body
cannabis or a controlled substance in violation of the Cannabis Control Act,
the State Controlled Substances Act, or the Methamphetamine Control and
Community Protection Act, being 720 ILCS 646/10.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-1)
   (B)   Prohibited acts. It shall be unlawful for any person within the
village to sell, offer for sale, deliver, or have in his or her possession any
illegal drugs or drug paraphernalia, which shall include, but is not
necessarily limited to, the following:
      (1)   Kits intended to be used unlawfully in manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, or preparing cannabis or a controlled
substance;
      (2)   Isomerization devices intended to be used unlawfully in increasing
the potency of any species of plant which is cannabis or a controlled
substance;
      (3)   Testing equipment intended to be used unlawfully in a private home
for identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness, or purity of
cannabis or controlled substances;
      (4)   Diluents and adulterants intended to be used unlawfully for cutting
cannabis or a controlled substance by private persons;
      (5)   Objects intended to be used unlawfully in ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing cannabis, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil into the human
body, including, where applicable, the following items:
         (a)   Water pipes;
         (b)   Carburetion tubes and devices;
         (c)   Smoking and carburetion masks;
         (d)   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
         (e)   Carburetor pipes;
         (f)   Electric pipes;
         (g)   Air-driven pipes;
         (h)   Chillums;
         (i)   Bongs; and
         (j)   Ice pipes or chillers.
      (6)   Any item whose purpose, as announced or described by the seller, is
for use in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-2)
(Ord. 725, passed 7-1-2013) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02 SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      SYNTHETIC CANNABINOID. Any laboratory-created compound that functions
similarly to the active ingredient in marijuana, tetrahydrocannabinol (THC),
including, but not limited to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic material,
compound, mixture, preparation, substance, and its analog containing a
cannabinoid receptor agonist, such as:
         (a)   JWH-007 (1-pentyl-2-methyl-3(1-naphthoyl)indole);
         (b)   JWH-015 ((2-methyl-1-propyl-1H-indol-3-yl)-1-
naphthalenylmethanone);
         (c)   JWH-018 (1-pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl)indole);
         (d)   JWH-019 (1-hexyl-3-(naphthalen-1-oyl)indole);
         (e)   JWH-073 (naphthalen-1-yl-(1-butylindol-3-yl)methanone);
         (f)   JWH-081 (4-methoxynaphthalen-1-yl-(1-pentylindol-3-
yl)methanone);
         (g)   JWH-098 (4-methoxynaphthalen-1-yl-(1-pentyl-2-Methylindol-3-
yl)methanone);
         (h)   JWH-122 (1-Pentyl-3-(4-methyl-1-naphthoyl)indole);
         (i)   JWH-164 (7-methoxynaphthalen-1-yl-(1-pentylindol-3-yl)methanone;
         (j)   JWH-200 (1-(2-morpholin-4-ylethyl)indol-3-yl)naphthalen-1-
ylmethuanone);
         (k)   JWH-203 (2-(2-chlorophenyl-1-(1-pentylindol-3-yl)ethanone;
         (l)   JWH-210 (4-ethylnaphthalen-1-yl-(1-pentylindol-3-yl)methanone;
         (m)   JWH-250 (1-pentyl-3-(2-methoxyphenylacetyl)indole);
         (n)   JWH-251 (1-pentyl-3-(2-methylphenylacetyl)indole);
         (o)   JWH-398 (1-pentyl-3-(4-chloro-l-naphthoyl)indole);
         (p)   HU-210 ((6aR,10aR-9-(Hydroxymethyl)-6,6-dimethyl-3-(2-
methyloctan-2-yl)-6a,7,10, 10a-tetrahydrobenzo [c]chromen-1-01);
         (q)   HU-211 ((6aS, 10aS)-9-(Hydroxymethyl)-6, 6-dimethyl-3-(2-
methyloctan-2-yl)-6a, 7, 10, 10a tetrahydrobenzo [c]chromen-1-ol);
         (r)   HU-308 ([1R, 2R, 5R)-2-[2,6-dimethoxy-4-(2-methyloctan-2-
yl)phenyl]-7, 7-dimethyl-4-bicyclo[3.1.1]hept-3-enyl]methanol);
         (s)   HU-331 ((3-hydroxy-2-[(1R, 6R)-3-methyl-6-(1-methlethenyl)-2-
cyclohexen-1-yl] -5-pentyl-2, 5-cyclohexadiene-1,4-dione);
         (t)   CP 55,940 (2-[(1R, 2R, 5R)-5-hydroxy-2-(3-hydroxpropyl)
cyclohexyl]-5- (2-methloctan-2-yl)phenol;
         (u)   CP 47,497 (2-[1R,3S)-3-hydroxycyclophexyl]-5-(2-methyloctan-2-
yl)phenol) and its homologues;
         (v)   WIN 55,212-2((R)-(+)-[2,3-Dihydro-5-methyl-3-(4-
morpholinylmethyl)pyrrolo [1,2,3-de)-1,4-benzoxazin-6-6yl]-1-
nephalenylmethanone);
         (w)   RCS-4 ((4-methoxphenyl)(1-pentyl-1H-indol-3-yl) methanone); or
         (x)   RCS-8 (1-(1-(2-cyclohexylethyl)-1H-indol-3-yl)-2-(2-
methoxyphenyl)ethanone).
      SYNTHETIC STIMULANT. Any compound which is a federally controlled
Schedule I substance, such as cathinone, methcathinone, MDMA, and MDEA,
including, but not limited to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic material,
compound mixture, preparation, or substance which has a stimulate effect on the
central nervous system. Upon banning, any of the following substances or
substances which contain the described characteristics shall be considered a
SYNTHETIC STIMULANT:
         (a)   3-Fluoromethcathinone;
         (b)   4-Fluoromethcathinone (other name: flephedrone);
         (c)   3,4-Methylenedioxymethcathinone (other name: methylone, MDMC);
         (d)   3,4-Methylenedioxypyrovalerone (other name: MDPV);
         (e)   4-Methylmethcathinone (other names: mephedrone, 4-MMC);
         (f)   4-Methoxymethcathinone (other names: methedrone, bk-PMMA, PMMC);
         (g)   4-Ethylmethcathinone (other name: 4-EMC);
         (h)   Ethcathinone;
         (i)   Beta-keto-N-methylbenzodioxyolylpropylamine (other names:
butylone, bk-MBDB);
         (j)   Napthylpyrovalerone (other names: naphyrone, NRG-1);
         (k)   N,N-dimethylcathinone (other name: metamfepramone);
         (l)   Alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name: alpha-PPP);
         (m)   4-methoxy-alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name: MOPPP);
         (n)   3,4-methylenedioxy-alpha-pyrrolidinopropiophenone (other name:
MDPPP);
         (o)   Alpha-pyrrolidinovalerophenone (other name: alpha-PVP);
         (p)   6,7-kihydro-5H-indeno(5,6-d)-1,3-dioxal-6-amine) (other name:
MDAI); and
         (q)   Any compound that is structurally derived from 2-amino-1-phenyl-
1-propanone by modification or substitution in any of the following ways:
            1.   In the phenyl ring to any extent with alkyl, alkoxy,
alkylenedioxy, haloalkyl, or halide substituents, whether or not further
substituted in the phenyl ring by one or more other univalent substituents;
            2.   At the 3-position with an alkyl substituent;
            3.   At the nitrogen atom with alkyl, dialkyl, benzyl, or
methoxybenzyl groups; or
            4.   By inclusion of the nitrogen atom in a cyclic structure.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-1)
   (B)   Unlawful sale of synthetic substances. It shall be unlawful for any
person to sell, offer for sale, or deliver any product containing a synthetic
cannabinoid or synthetic stimulant.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-2)
   (C)   Unlawful possession. It shall be unlawful to any person to knowingly
possess a product containing a synthetic cannabinoid or synthetic stimulant.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-3)
(Ord. 726, passed 7-1-2013) Penalty, see §
112.99
ALCOHOL
§ 112.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person applying for a liquor license, as provided for herein,
including all persons in a partnership, and all persons who are the officers or
stockholders owning more than 5% interest in a corporation.
   BEVERAGE ALCOHOL or  INTOXICATING LIQUOR. Any spirits, wine, beer, ale, or
other liquid containing more than 0.5% of alcohol by volume which is fit for
beverage purposes.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 21 years.
   PACKAGE LIQUOR STORE. Any establishment maintained, advertised, and held out
to the public as a place where beverage alcohol or intoxicating liquor is sold
for the use or consumption at a place other than the establishment.
   RESTAURANT. A public place kept, used, maintained, advertised, and held out
to the public as a place where meals are actually and regularly served, such
place being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room
equipment, and having employed therein a sufficient number of employees to
prepare, cook, and serve suitable food for its guests and in which beverage
alcohol or intoxicating liquor is sold for use or consumption on the premises.
In addition, any business claiming to be a RESTAURANT must document, upon
demand, that 50% or more of its gross receipts is derived from the sale of food
as distinguished from alcoholic liquor.
   RETAIL SALE. The sale for use or consumption and not for resale.
   SOCIAL EVENTS. All events, including homecomings, wedding receptions, and
social parties in which alcoholic liquors are either sold or served for use or
consumption on the premises.
   TAVERN. Any establishment maintained, advertised, and held out to the public
as a place where beverage alcohol or intoxicating liquor is sold for use or
consumption on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-1) (Ord. 723, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 112.16 STATE LAW APPLICABLE.
   In addition to the provisions of this subchapter, all provisions of 235 ILCS
(Liquor Control Act) are applicable to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-2) (Ord. 723, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 112.17 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Applications for such licenses shall be made to the Mayor in writing, signed
by the applicant, if an individual, or by a duly authorized agent thereof, if a
corporation, verified by oath or affidavit, and shall contain the following
information:
   (A)   The name, age, and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a partnership, all partners’ names and addresses; in
the case of a corporation, the date of incorporation, the state in which
incorporated, the principal office of said corporation, the names and addresses
of the officers thereof, and stockholders owning more than 5% interest in the
corporation;
   (B)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth, and, if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
   (C)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license;
   (D)   A statement that the applicant (person, partners, or principal
officers or stockholders of a corporation) has never been convicted of a felony
and is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this subchapter, the laws of this state, or the ordinances of the
village; and
   (E)   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, or by
the federal government, has been revoked, and the reasons therefor.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-3) (Ord. 723, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 112.18 INELIGIBILITY.
   (A)   No retail liquor license shall be issued to:
      (1)   An individual who is not a resident of the village or a partnership
where at least one partner is not a resident of the village. There shall be no
residency requirement for a state corporation, or a foreign corporation
licensed to do business in the state, which is in good standing;
      (2)   An applicant who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she resides;
      (3)   An applicant who is not a citizen of the United States;
      (4)   An applicant who has been convicted of a felony under the laws of
the state. The conviction of a felony by the principal officers or stockholders
of a corporation shall act as a disqualification of an applicant;
      (5)   An applicant whose license issued under this subchapter has been
revoked for cause;
      (6)   An applicant who, at the time of application for renewal of any
license issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application;
      (7)   A partnership, unless all members of the partnership shall be
qualified to obtain a license;
      (8)   A corporation, unless all principal officers (president, vice
president, secretary, and treasurer) will qualify to obtain a license;
      (9)   An applicant whose place is conducted by a manager or agent unless
such manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of all
licensees;
      (10)   An applicant who has been convicted of a violation of any federal
or state law concerning manufacture, possession, or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to passage of the ordinance codified in this subchapter;
      (11)   An applicant who does not own the premises for which a license is
sought or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the
license is to be issued; and
      (12)   Law enforcing public officers, the Mayor, or Trustees of the
village, and no such official shall be interested in any way, either directly
or indirectly, in the manufacture, sale, or distribution of alcoholic liquor.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-4)
   (B)   No license shall be issued by the Mayor of this municipality
permitting the sale, purchase, and/or consumption of alcoholic liquor in or on
the property of Schneider Park and/or Brighton Village Hall, located in the
village, except for the village or a village committee.
(Ord. 723, passed 6-4-2012; Ord. 2022-08, passed 7-5-2022)
§ 112.19 LICENSE CLASSIFICATION; NUMBER; FEES.
   The issuance of a license to sell beverage alcohol or intoxicating liquors
shall be pursuant to the following classifications.
   (A)   License classification.
 
Class A license Taverns
Class B license Package liquor store
Class C license License for serving liquor at social events
Class D license Restaurant
 
   (B)   Limitation on number issued.
      (1)   The village may issue four Class A licenses.
      (2)   The village may issue four Class B licenses.
      (3)   The village may issue Class C licenses with Mayor approval.
      (4)   The village may issue four Class D licenses.
   (C)   Fee schedule.
      (1)   The issuance of licenses to sell beverage alcohol or intoxicating
liquors shall be according to the following fee schedule:
         (a)   Class A licenses (taverns): a yearly fee of $800 and shall be
payable annually in advance;
         (b)   1.   Class B licenses (package liquor stores): a yearly fee of
$400 and shall be payable annually in advance; and
            2.   SUNDAY LICENSE. A license classification that enables Class A,
Class B, and Class D licensees to sell liquor from 12:00 p.m. to 12:00 a.m. on
Sunday. The charge for a Sunday Class B license shall be an additional yearly
fee of $750 payable annually in advance.
         (c)   Class C license: per event, a fee of $25 payable in advance; and
         (d)   Class D licenses (restaurants): a yearly fee of $800 shall be
payable annually in advance.
      (2)   All licenses of each class authorized to be issued by the village
shall be automatically revoked upon failure to make any payment when due.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-5) (Ord. 723, passed 6-4-2012; Ord. 2021-08, passed 1-4-
2021)
§ 112.20 TERM AND PRORATING FEE.
   (A)   The 12-month period shall be from July 1 of the issuing year to June
30 of the following year.
   (B)   The fee to be paid shall be reduced in proportion to the full calendar
months of the license year which has expired prior to the issuance of the
license, but no license shall be issued for a fee less than one-fourth of the
annual cost.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-6) (Ord. 798, passed 6-6-2016; Ord. 2023-06, passed 2-6-
2023)
§ 112.21 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   A license shall be purely a personal privilege and shall be
issued for not more than one year, unless sooner revoked, as in this subchapter
provided and shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to
attachment, garnishment, or execution, nor shall it be alienable or
transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or
hypothecated.
      (2)   Such license shall not descend by the laws of testate or intestate
devolution, but it shall cease upon the death of the licensee; provided, that
the executors or administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee and the
trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in
part of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of the sale of alcoholic
liquor under order of the appropriate court and may exercise the privileges of
the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of such decedent
or such insolvency or bankruptcy until the expiration of such license, but not
longer than six months after the death, bankruptcy, or insolvency of such
licensee.
      (3)   A refund shall be made of that portion of the license fees paid for
any period on which the licensee shall be prevented from operation under such
license in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Any licensee may renew his or her license at the expiration thereof,
provided he or she is then qualified to receive a license and the premises for
which such renewal license is sought are suitable for such purpose; and
provided further, that the renewal privilege herein provided for shall not be
construed as a vested right which shall, in any case, prevent the Village
Trustees from decreasing the number of licenses to be issued within its
jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-7) (Ord. 723, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 112.22 CLOSING HOURS.
   (A)   Hours designated. It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale any
beverage alcohol or intoxicating liquor in the village between the hours of 1:
00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. of every weekday and at any time of the day on the first
day of the week commonly called Sunday, with the exception of the hour between
12:00 a.m. and 1:00 a.m., and during the time of extension as provided
hereinafter; and also with the exception that Sunday Class B licensees, who
have paid the appropriate fee, are licensed to sell package liquor from 12:00
p.m. to 12:00 a.m. on Sunday.
   (B)   Application for extension. Any establishment selling or offering for
sale any beverage alcohol or intoxicating liquor may make application in
writing to the Mayor for a one-hour extension; that is, to extend the closing
hour from 1:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.; provided, that said written application has
been made to the Mayor at least 48 hours prior to the proposed time of the
extension of the closing hour.
   (C)   Christmas Eve and New Year’s Eve.
      (1)   In addition to the foregoing, application may also be made for a
permit for Class A and Class B licensees to be open from the hour of 1:00 p.m.
and thereafter whenever Christmas Eve and New Year’s Eve is on a Sunday.
      (2)   Said application for a permit to open on Christmas Eve and/or New
Year’s Eve on a Sunday shall be made to the Mayor at least 48 hours in advance
of Christmas Eve and/or New Year’s Eve day.
   (D)   Authority to grant extension or permit. The Mayor may grant or deny
any application for an extension or permit, as set forth herein, without cause.
   (E)   Vacating premises. Other than the owner or manager, all persons shall
vacate the premises in which alcoholic beverages and intoxicating liquors are
sold and offered for sale within 20 minutes from the closing hour.
   (F)   Package liquor stores. In case of package liquor stores, no alcoholic
beverages or intoxicating liquors shall be sold after the closing hours as
established in division (A) above, but the store may remain open beyond closing
hours to sell merchandise other than alcoholic beverages and intoxicating
liquors.
   (G)   Class C licensee. It shall be unlawful for any Class C licensee to
sell or serve any beverage alcohol or intoxicating liquor in the village
between the hours as shown in division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-8) (Ord. 723, passed 6-4-2012; Ord. 736, passed 7-1-2013)
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.23 INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to enter at any time or to authorize any law
enforcing officer to enter upon any premises licensed hereunder, to determine
whether any of the provisions of this subchapter have been or are being
violated.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-9) (Ord. 723, passed 6-4-2012)
§ 112.24 SALES TO CERTAIN PERSONS; MINORS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   Sales to certain persons. No licensee under any liquor license issued
by the village shall sell, give away, or deliver or allow the same to be done
upon the licensed premises, any beverage alcohol or intoxicating liquor to any
minor, to any intoxicated person, or to any person known by him or her to be
under legal disability or in need of mental treatment.
   (B)   Minors restricted.
      (1)   Frequenting by minors. No minor shall patronize, frequent, or
loiter in any establishment deriving its principal business from the sale of
beverage alcohol or intoxicating liquor for consumption on the premises.
      (2)   Allowing minors in adjoining rooms. No licensee, under any liquor
license issued by the village, or his or her agent or employee, shall suffer or
permit any minor to remain in any room or compartment adjoining or adjacent to
or situated in the room or place where such licensed premises are located;
provided, however, that this prohibition shall not apply to any minor who is
accompanied by his or her parent or guardian; or to any minor who has entered a
separate, adjacent area for the purpose of dining or employment, which said
area predominantly provides meals and associated restaurant services to the
public; or to any licensed premises which derives its principal business from
the sale or service of commodities other than alcoholic liquor.
      (3)   Misrepresentation of age. Any minor who misrepresents his or her
age for the purpose of purchasing or receiving beverage alcohol or intoxicating
liquor in any place in the village where liquor is sold or in any manner makes
any attempt to purchase beverage alcohol or intoxicating liquor in the village
shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in §
112.99.
      (4)   Selling or serving liquor. It shall be unlawful for any person
under the age of 18 years of age to sell alcoholic liquor in any licensed
retail establishment.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-10) (Ord. 723, passed 6-4-2012; Ord. 2022-09, passed 8-1-
2022) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.25 CONSUMPTION ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Public property. No person in the village shall consume any alcoholic
beverage on public property, including streets, parks, or any other
governmentally owned real estate.
   (B)   Privately owned property. No person in the village shall consume any
alcoholic beverages in open view on privately owned property if the owner of
said privately owned property posts a sign thereon stating that no alcoholic
beverages shall be consumed on the private property and providing that the
owner of the privately owned property has given the Village Police Department a
written letter of direction to patrol said property and to enforce this section
for violations occurring thereon.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-11) (Ord. 723, passed 6-4-2012) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.26 VIEW FROM STREET.
   (A)   In premises upon which the sale of beverage alcohol or intoxicating
liquor for consumption upon the premises is licensed, no screen, blind,
curtain, partition, article, or thing shall be permitted in the window or upon
the doors of such licensed premises, nor inside such premises, which shall
prevent a clear view into the interior of such licensed premises from the
street, road, or sidewalk at all times, and no booth, screen, partition, or
other obstruction, nor any arrangement of lights or lighting, shall be
permitted in or about the interior of such premises from the street, road, or
sidewalk, and said premises must be so located that there shall be a full view
of the entire interior of such premises from the street, road, or sidewalk. All
rooms where beverage alcohol or intoxicating liquor is sold for consumption
upon the premises shall be continuously lighted during business hours by
natural light or artificial white light so that all parts of the interior of
the premises shall be clearly visible.
   (B)   In case the view into any such licensed premises required by the
foregoing provisions shall be willfully obscured by the licensee or by him or
her willfully suffered to be obscured in or any manner obstructed, then such
license shall be subject to revocation.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-12) (Ord. 723, passed 6-4-2012) Penalty, see §
112.99
TOBACCO AND SMOKELESS TOBACCO PRODUCTS
§ 112.40 PURCHASE OR POSSESSION BY UNDERAGE PERSONS.
   (A)   Allowing operation of vending machines. No person holding a license
under this subchapter shall permit any person under 21 years of age to purchase
tobacco in any of its forms as herein defined.
   (B)   Possession. No person under 21 years of age shall possess any tobacco
in any of its forms.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-7) (Ord. 305, passed 7-11-1966) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.41 SALE OF TOBACCO TO MINORS; LOCATION OF VENDING MACHINES.
   No minor under 21 years of age shall buy any cigar, cigarette, smokeless
tobacco, or tobacco in any of its forms. No person shall sell, buy for,
distribute samples of, or furnish any cigar, cigarette, or smokeless tobacco in
any of its forms to any minor under 18 years of age. For the purpose of this
section, SMOKELESS TOBACCO means any tobacco products that are suitable for
dipping or chewing.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-8) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.42 DISTRIBUTION OF SMOKELESS TOBACCO PRODUCTS TO UNDERAGE PERSONS.
   No person shall distribute or cause to be distributed to any person under
the age of 21 without charge or at a nominal cost, any smokeless tobacco
product.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-9) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.43 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Violation; right to revoke. Every license issued under this subchapter
is subject to the right which is hereby expressly reserved to revoke the same
should the licensee directly or indirectly permit the operation of any
cigarette vending machine contrary to the provisions of this subchapter, the
ordinances of the village, or the laws of the state.
   (B)   Notice to licensee. Said license may be revoked by the Village Board
after written notice which shall specify the ordinance or law violation with
which the licensee is charged.
   (C)   Hearing. The licensee shall be entitled to a hearing on said charge,
said hearing to be held before the Village Board, or a member thereof
designated by the Mayor to conduct said hearing. At such hearing, the licensee
may appear with counsel and may present evidence on his or her behalf.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-10) (Ord. 305, passed 7-11-1966)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
112.01 shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99(A) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each and every day during or on which a violation occurs.
(Prior Code, § 4-4-3)
   (C)   (1)   Any person 17 years of age or older found in violation of §
112.02(B) shall be subject to a fine of not less than $500 and not more than
$750 for each violation thereof. Any person under the age of 17 who violates §
112.02(B) shall pay court costs, and in addition to paying the fine, shall
complete not less than 24 hours of community service.
      (2)   Notwithstanding age, any individual found in violation of §
112.02(C) must complete drug counseling.
      (3)   Any person 17 years of age or older found to be in violation of §
112.02(C) shall be subject to a fine of not less than $100 and not more than
$750 for each violation thereof.
      (4)   Each violation of §
112.02, or each day a violation continues to exist, shall constitute a new and
separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 4-5-4)
   (D)   Any person violating the provisions of §
112.25 shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99(A).
(Prior Code, § 3-2-11)
   (E)   Unless otherwise provided in §§
112.15 through
112.26, any person convicted of violating any provisions of §§
112.15 through
112.26, or any amendments or additions thereto, is guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be fined a sum of not less than $100 nor more than $750 for such
violation; and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 3-2-13)
   (F)   Any person who violates any provision of §
112.41 is guilty of a petty offense and for the first offense shall be fined
$200, $400 for the second offense in a 12-month period, and $600 for the third
or any subsequent offense in a 12-month period. One-half of each fine collected
under this division (F) shall be distributed to the unit of local government or
other entity that successfully prosecuted the offender and one-half shall be
remitted to the state to be used for enforcing §
112.41.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-8)
   (G)   Any person who violates §
112.42 shall be guilty of a business offense punishable for a first offense by
a fine of $200, for a second offense in a 12-month period by a fine of $400,
and for the third or any subsequent offense in a 12-month period by a fine of
$600. One-half of each fine collected under this division (G) shall be
distributed to the unit of local government or other entity that successfully
prosecuted the offender and one-half shall be remitted to the state to be used
for the enforcement of §
112.42.
(Prior Code, § 3-4-9)
(Ord. 723, passed 6-4-2012; Ord. 725, passed 7-1-2013; Ord. 726, passed 7-1-
2013)
APPENDIX A: APPLICATION FOR LOCAL LIQUOR LICENSE
   Liquor Control                                          Mattew P. Kasten
   Commissioner                                          President
 APPLICATION FOR LOCAL LIQUOR LICENSE
This application requests information required under Brighton Village Code (as
amended). Failure to provide any applicable information will result in the
automatic denial of a license. The acceptance of the fee herein does not
constitute approval by the Village of Brighton of the Application for a liquor
license. If this Application is denied, all fees will be refunded.
NAME OF BUSINESS THAT WILL BE SELLING ALCOHOL:
 
                                               Fee
Application for CLASS __________ Liquor License Tendered: $
Class A-Taverns                                 $800.00
Class B1-Package Liquor Stores                  $400.00
Class B2-Sunday Sales                           $750.00
Class C-Per Event                               $25.00
Class D-Restaurants                             $800.00
 
NOTE: Local liquor licenses allow the licensee to sell or offer for sale
alcoholic liquor only at the premises specified in the license. Each license
shall terminate June 30th from the date of issuance. Renewal application shall
be submitted at least 21 days prior to expiration.
**Failure of licensee to comply with the liquor control requirements and
restrictions set forth in the Village Code may result in revocation or
suspension of the liquor license.
 
FOR OFFICE USE ONLY
Date Received: ____________________
Denied: ___________________               License#:
Granted: __________________               Date Issued:
Date: _____________________               Date of Expiration:
Signature of Liquor Control Commissioner: Date:
 
 
Part A. GENERAL APPLICANT INFORMATION:  TO BE COMPLETED BY APPLICANTS
 
Name of Applicant(s)
_________________________________________________________________________________
         
_________________________________________________________________________________
Business Type: ______________________________________________________
Check Appropriate Answer:
___ New Application
___ Renewal Application
Current County Liquor License #_____________________________________ Date first
Issued: ___________________
Current Illinois Liquor License #______________________________________ Date
first Issued: ___________________
NOTE: Renewal applicants need only complete the sections of this application
which have changed since the original or last renewal application was
submitted.
Statue of Business:
      ___ Sole Proprietorship-Date Assumed Name Filed:
_________________________________________
      ____Partnership-Date of Formation:
______________________________________________________
      ____Illinois Corporation-Date of Incorporation:
_____________________________________________
      ____Foreign Corporation-State of Incorporation:
____________________________________________
                  Date Qualified to do Business in Illinois:
_________________________
      ____Limited Liability Company-Date Formed:
______________________________________________
      ____Club/Association-Date Formed:
______________________________________________________
                     Stated Purpose:
______________________________________________
                     Summary of Club activities this past year:
________________________
      ______________________________________________________________________
      Address of Business at which liquor will be sold:
      _____________________________________________________________________Phone:
____________________
      Address of any other premises within Brighton at which liquor may be
warehoused:
      ______________________________________________________________________________
Ownership of Premises where the business will operate:
_________________________________________________
(If Applicant does not own the property, a copy of the current lease must be
attached and cover the term of license.)
Business website: ___________________________________ E-mail address:
____________________________________
Hours of Business Operation:
 
Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday
                                           
   
Federal Employer Identification Number:
____________________________________________________________
Illinois Business Tax (Sales Tax) Number:
____________________________________________________________
Insurance Policies covering the operation of the business and the business
premises:
 
Insurance Type of Policy Policy # Co. Phone #
                                
                                
                                
 
**New applicants attach a copy of the floor plan with complete dimensions
noted.
 
PART B. OWNERSHIP INFORMATION: To be completed by ALL applicants in accordance
with the status of business stated above in Part A. This information must be
provided for each owner/officer/director/partner as well as shareholders with
stock interests equal or exceeding 5% and for any manager or agent will be
conducting the business. If there are shareholders who own less than 5%
indicate the aggregate total ownership in the space provided.
 
Manager/Agent Conducting Business:
 
Name (Last, First, MI) Home Address City state Zip Code
                                            
 
Social Security # DOB  Title/Position Phone # % Owned
                                        
United States Citizen: Yes (Place of Birth OR Place of Naturalization):
___________________________
No (Provide documentation identifying legal status in this country.)
 
Owners/Officers/Directors/Partners/Shareholders:
 
Name (Last, First, MI) Home Address City state Zip Code
                                            
 
Social Security # DOB  Title/Position Phone # % Owned
                                        
United States Citizen: Yes (Place of Birth OR Place of Naturalization):
___________________________
No (Provide documentation identifying legal status in this country.)
 
 
Name (Last, First, MI) Home Address City state Zip Code
                                            
 
Social Security # DOB  Title/Position Phone # % Owned
                                        
United States Citizen: Yes (Place of Birth OR Place of Naturalization):
___________________________
No (Provide documentation identifying legal status in this country.)
 
 
Name (Last, First, MI) Home Address City state Zip Code
                                            
 
Social Security # DOB  Title/Position Phone # % Owned
                                        
United States Citizen: Yes (Place of Birth OR Place of Naturalization):
___________________________
No (Provide documentation identifying legal status in this country.)
 
 
Name (Last, First, MI) Home Address City state Zip Code
                                            
 
Social Security # DOB  Title/Position Phone # % Owned
                                        
United States Citizen: Yes (Place of Birth OR Place of Naturalization):
___________________________
No (Provide documentation identifying legal status in this country.)
 
**Clubs/Associations must also submit a list of its members and addresses.
 
Part C. SOLE PROPRIETORSHIP INFORMATION:
 
Name: ___________________________________________________________ Date of
Birth: ______________________
         First         Middle         Last
United States Citizen: Yes (Place of Birth OR Naturalization)
________________________________________________
             No (if No, provide documentation identifying legal status in this
country.)
Home Address:
______________________________________________________________________________________
Phone #: ____________________________________ E-mail:
________________________________________________
Social Security #___________________________________
Provide current and former employment history for the past 10 years:
 
Employer             Address        Phone
                                   
Immediate Supervisor Title/Position From/To
                                   
 
 
Employer             Address        Phone
                                   
Immediate Supervisor Title/Position From/To
                                   
 
 
Employer             Address        Phone
                                   
Immediate Supervisor Title/Position From/To
                                   
 
 
Part D. LIQUOR LICENSE HISTORY: TO BE COMPLETED BY ALL APPLICANTS AND OTHER
PERSONS LISTED IN PART B.
 
Indicate whether this is your first application for a liquor license: ____Yes
_____No
If this is not your first application, identify each licensing authority
(state, county, municipality) from which a license has been sought and the
disposition of each application. If you have ever had a license denied, or if
you have ever withdrawn an application, please provide a written statement
setting forth the reasons and circumstances.
 
State/Country/ Granted/Denied/ Issuance Date, if any Expiration Date, if any
Municipality   Withdrawn
                                                   
                                                   
                                                   
 
**Provide you Federal Tax Stamp Document Control Number showing that your
business has been approved to sell alcoholic beverages by the Federal Bureau of
Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearm.
_________________________________________________________
 
 
Part E. ELIGIBILITY QUESTIONS: TO BE COMPLETED BY ALL APPLICANTS AND OTHER
PERSON LISTED IN PART B. IF ANY QUESTION IS NOT ANSWERED, THE APPLICANT WILL BE
REJECTED.
 
   YES      NO
1.____   ____   Has any Applicant been delinquent in the payment of any
Illinois Business Tax (Sales, Withholding, etc.)?
2.____   ____   Has any Applicant ever applied for and been denied a liquor
license?
3.____   ____   Has any Applicant ever had any previous liquor license revoked?
4.____   ____   Has any Applicant ever been convicted of a felony?
5.____   ____   Does any Applicant possess a current federal wagering stamp
issued by any Government Office?
6.____   ____   Has any Applicant ever been convicted of a gambling offense as
defined and enumerated in the Illinois Liquor Control Act, 235 ILCS 56-2(16)?
7.____   ____   Are you, or another person with an interest in the business, a
public official or law enforcement official with the jurisdiction of the
Village of Brighton?
8.____   ____   Except for merchandise credit in the ordinary course of
business, has any Applicant received or borrowed money, credit, or anything of
value directly or indirectly from any other licensee, supplier, manufacturer,
importer, distributor, or representative thereof, of alcoholic products?
If the answer to any of the above questions was ‘YES’, a written detailed
explanation must be provided below:
____________________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________________
For each Owner, Manager, and/or Agent listed on this application, state whether
he/she would be qualified to obtain a state and local liquor license. If your
answer is NO, provide a complete explanation.
   YES      NO      Name:
________________________________________________________________________
   YES      NO      Name:
________________________________________________________________________
   YES      NO      Name:
________________________________________________________________________
   YES      NO      Name:
________________________________________________________________________
   YES      NO      Name:
________________________________________________________________________
   YES      NO      Name:
________________________________________________________________________
 
Part F. CERTIFICATION: APPLICATION MUST BE SIGNED BY AN OWNER, OFFICER, PARTNER
OR AUTHORIZED AGENT OF THE BUSINESS. THE SIGNATURE MUST BE ORIGINAL-NO RUBBER
STAMPS.
 
I, the undersigned Applicant or Authorized Agents thereof, swear, affirm and
certify that the matters stated in this application are true and correct and
are made upon my personal knowledge and information for the express purpose of
obtaining a liquor license from the Village of Brighton. Further, I swear,
affirm and certify that the Applicant is qualified and eligible to obtain the
license applied for and understands and agrees not to violate any of the laws
of the United States, the State of Illinois or the Village of Brighton.
It is understood and agreed that the Village of Brighton will be notified
within 30 days of any changes in the information stated herein.
_______________________________________         ____________________________      ________________
Print Name of Sole Proprietor/Authorized Agent               Title/
Position                Date
_______________________________________
Signature of Sole Proprietor/Authorized Agent
_______________________________________         ____________________________      ________________
Print Name of Authorized Agent                        Title/
Position                Date
 
_______________________________________
Signature of Authorized Agent
 
Subscribed and sworn before me
This ____ day of ___________, 20___
 
NOTARY PUBLIC
CHAPTER 113: PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS
Section
   
113.01   License required
   
113.02   Application for license
   
113.03   License fees
   
113.04   Hours of operation
   
113.05   Violations; license revocation
 
   
113.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Peddler/solicitor permit application
§ 113.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of hawker or
peddler of any merchandise, article, or thing within the village without having
first obtained a license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-1) (Ord. 186, passed 5-3-1948) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Applications for such licenses shall be made to the Village Clerk, and shall
state thereon the number of vehicles, if any, intended to be operated, the kind
of article or merchandise to be peddled, and the permanent address of the
peddler.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-2) (Ord. 186, passed 5-3-1948)
§ 113.03 LICENSE FEES.
   The fees for such licenses shall be the following.
   (A)   With vehicle. For peddlers using a cart, wagon, automobile, or other
vehicle, the fee shall be $250 for each such vehicle for an annual license, and
$45 for each such vehicle for a daily license.
   (B)   Without vehicle. For peddlers not using any such vehicle, the fee
shall be $250 for an annual license and $45 for a daily license.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-3) (Ord. 622, passed 5-24-2004)
§ 113.04 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   All peddlers or hawkers of any merchandise, article, or thing other than
foodstuffs, hawking, or peddling their wares within the village may do so only
within the hours of 9:00 a.m. until 6:00 p.m., and in the event of a violation
of the hours specified, the same penalty as provided in §
113.99 shall be applicable to a violation hereof.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-4) (Ord. 306, passed 1-3-1967) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05 VIOLATIONS; LICENSE REVOCATION.
   Any licensed peddler or hawker who shall be guilty of any fraud, cheating,
or misrepresentation, whether through himself or herself or through an
employee, while acting as a peddler in the village, or who shall barter, sell,
or peddle any goods, wares, or merchandise other than those specified in the
application for a license shall be fined as provided in §
113.99 for each such offense, and the Mayor and Board of Trustees may revoke
his or her license for such offense.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-5) (Ord. 186, passed 5-3-1948) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined
not less than $50 nor more than $750 for each offense, and a separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
(Prior Code, § 3-3-6) (Ord. 186, passed 5-3-1948)
APPENDIX A: PEDDLER/SOLICITOR PERMIT APPLICATION
206 S. Main St. Brighton, IL 62012 * 618-372-8860 (phone)
ALL persons, both principals and agents, as well as employers and employees,
who sell, offer for or expose for sale, or who shall trade, deal or traffic in
any personal property or services in the Village by going from house to house
or from place to place or by indiscriminately approaching individuals must
apply individually for a peddler’s permit. (Ord. 186, 5-3-1948)
Non-Refundable Daily Fee $45.00 (or) Annual Fee $250.00
Applicant must present Current State ID with Picture AND Employer ID
Applying as: Employee Employer Principal
(Each employer/principals must also complete supplemental form.)
Village of Brighton Peddler #: 20_____-___________
This is an APPLICATION ONLY, and NOT a permit to conduct business.
Business Name:               Applicants Home Address:
Applicants Legal Name:
Date Of Birth:    ________/
__________/_________      All correspondence will be mailed to this address:
Social Security #: ________- Business Address: Check if same Home
__________-__________   
Drivers License #:           Email Address:
 
Business Phone:              Date Requested for License:
Cell Phone:
Height:_______ Weight:
________ Age:__________      Description of Nature of Business:
Hair Color:_________ Eye
Color:_________
Indicate Ownership
Corporation Non-profit       Goods or services to be sold:
(Exempt) Status:
Sole Proprietor Partnership
Business will be conducted:
Door to Door Other_____      All sales to occur only on the requested license date &
Set Location/Address:        between the hours of 9:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m.
____________________________
If employed or acting as an agent, the name, address and phone number of the employer
(s) or principal(s) with the exact relationship with the principal or employer:
Name               Address               Phone #            Relationship to Applicant
 
(Each employer and/or principal must also apply separately and complete supplemental
form.)
Will a vehicle be  If yes    Plate #:    Make:    Model: Color:
used? No Yes   
Has applicant (includes application by employer and/or principal) been convicted of any
crime within the lest ten years, including misdemeanors, gross misdemeanors, or
violations of any municipal ordinance? No Yes, If yes list the nature of the offense,
and the punishment or penalty assessed.               
I hereby certify and declare under penalty of perjury under Illinois law that the
statements furnished by me on this application are true and complete to the best of my
knowledge and that I will comply with the provisions of the Village of Brighton. I
understand that the Village may conduct a background check and any untrue statement is
cause for revocation of my permit.
 
Date ____________ Signature ______________________________ (Printed)
________________________________
 
STATE OF ILLINOIS
COUNTY OF MACOUPIN         
I certify that I know or have satisfactory evidence that
__________________________signed this instrument and acknowledged it to be his/her/
their free and voluntary act for the uses and purposes mentioned in the instrument.
  
___________________________________________________
Notary Public Signature
 
Notary (Print) _______________________________________
 
          My appointment expires: ______________________ Dated: ____________________
 
Permit Supplemental Form for Employers and Principals
              Business Name:
              ______________________
               
              Business Phone#:
Applying as:  _____________________
Employer                                   Business Address:
Principal     Cell Phone#:
              ________________________
               
              Email:
              _____________________________
FIN# _______________________________________________
All Employees and Agents Applying for Peddler Permit
Employee Name Employee Address              Employee Cell Phone
                                           
                                           
                                           
                                           
                                           
                                           
                                           
Manager(s) for applicant(s) conducting business in Renton:
                                            Business Phone:
                                            _______________
                                             
Name:         Address:                      Home Phone:
                                            _________________
                                             
                                            Email:
                                            ______________________
Ownership of Business:       Sole Proprietor    Partnership      
Corporation       Non-profit (Exempt)
If a Corporation or Partnership, provide name, address and phone number
of Board of Directors, principal officers, registered agents, and/or
partners. (Attach additional sheet if additional room is needed)
Name/Title  Address                       Telephone#
                                           
 
                                           
 
                                           
 
                                           
 
 
 
Has any of the above been convicted of any crime within the last ten years,
including misdemeanors, gross misdemeanors, or violations of any municipal
ordinance? No Yes, If yes list name/title, nature of the offense, and the
punishment or penalty assessed.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please list other cities, towns and countries where the applicant has obtained
a peddler’s permit or similar permit within the past five years:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I hereby certify and declare under penalty of perjury under Illinois law that
the statements furnished by me on this application are true and complete to the
best of my knowledge and that I will comply with the provisions of the Village
of Brighton. I understand that the Village may conduct a background check and
any untrue statement is cause for revocation of my permit.
 
Date ______________ Signature _____________________________ (Printed)
__________________________________
 
STATE OF ILLINOIS         )
COUNTY OF MACOUPIN         )
Signed and sworn to (or affirmed) before me on ____________________________ by
___________________________.
 
 
 
___________________________________________________
Notary Public Signature
Notary (Print) _______________________________________
My appointment expires:________________________________ Dated: ____________
 
Permit can be picked up from the Village Clerks Office between the hours of 8:
00 a.m.- 4:00p.m. Permit must be carried and displayed. Any person violating
any of the provisions shall be fined not less than $50.00 nor more than $750.00
for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 186, 1948; amd. 2002
Code)
 
(Ord. 186, passed - -1948)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Regulations
   
130.01   State Criminal Code adopted by reference
   
130.02   Sniffing or inhaling of intoxicants
   
130.03   Barbed wire fences
   
130.04   Semitrailers, similar containers as storage facilities
   
130.05   Abetting or encouraging violation
   
130.06   Curfew
Camping on Public Property
   
130.20   Purpose
   
130.21   Definitions
   
130.22   Unlawful Camping Or Storage Of Personal Property In Public Places
   
130.23   Enforcement; Warnings; Removal And Confiscation Of Debris And Personal
Property
   
130.24   Penalties
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 130.01 STATE CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions, and
sections of the State Criminal Code, as amended, are hereby adopted by the
village.
   (B)   Any and all violations thereof shall be considered violations of this
chapter, and each such violation shall subject the violator thereof to penalty
provisions under this chapter if proceeded hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-1)
§ 130.02 SNIFFING OR INHALING OF INTOXICANTS.
   (A)   Inhaling prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person in the
village to sniff, inhale, or breathe the vapors of any glue, kerosene,
gasoline, cleaning fluid, or other substance not manufactured or produced for
such human consumption for the purpose of becoming intoxicated.
   (B)   Encouraging violation. It shall be unlawful for any person to command,
encourage, request, aid, or abet any other person to violate the provisions of
this section.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-2) (Ord. 410, passed 12-3-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 BARBED WIRE FENCES.
   No person shall erect or maintain in the village any fence, railing, or
guard which has thereon wire, iron spikes, or other sharp pointed metal
instruments; provided, however, customary barbed wire fences for stock may be
erected and maintained in any area classified as agricultural under the village
zoning ordinance, but not within five feet of the traveled portion of a public
road or public sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-3) (Ord. 410, passed 12-3-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 SEMITRAILERS, SIMILAR CONTAINERS AS STORAGE FACILITIES.
   No semitrailers or other similar containers shall be permitted to be used as
storage facilities, sheds, or for other similar purposes in the village.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-4) (Ord. 588, passed 7-2-2001) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 ABETTING OR ENCOURAGING VIOLATION.
   No person shall abet or encourage any unlawful act or any violation of any
ordinance of the village.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-5) (Ord. 410, passed 12-3-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 CURFEW.
   (A)   Age and hour restrictions. It is unlawful for a person less than 17
years of age to be present at or upon any public assembly, building, place,
street, or highway at the following times unless accompanied and supervised by
a parent, legal guardian, or other responsible companion at least 18 years of
age approved by a parent or legal guardian or unless engaged in a business or
occupation which the laws of this state authorize a person less than 17 years
of age to perform:
      (1)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. Saturday;
      (2)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. Sunday; and
      (3)   Between 11:00 p.m. on Sunday until 6:00 a.m. on Monday and on each
day thereafter through Thursday at 11:00 p.m. until Friday at 6:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-1)
   (B)   Parental responsibility. It is unlawful for a parent, legal guardian,
or other person to knowingly permit a person in his or her custody or control
to violate division (A) above.
(Prior Code, § 5-4-2)
   (C)   Exceptions. It is an exemption to a violation under this section that
the person engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(Ord. 378, passed 2-2-1976) Penalty, see §
130.99
CAMPING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
§ 130.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to prevent harm to the health and safety of
the public and to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare by
prohibiting unauthorized camping ad storage of personal properly on public
property within the Village, which interferes with the right of others to use
the areas for the purposes for which they were intended.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 130.21 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement
of this chapter:
   BRIDGE. A structure, including the approaches thereto erected in order to
afford passage over any obstruction in any public road, railroad, or other
right-of-way, or to afford passage under or over existing public roads,
railroads, or other rights-of-way.
   CAMP FACILITIES. Include, but are not limited to, tents, huts, temporary
shelters, campers, recreational vehicles, or trailers. Camp facilities do not
include tents, huts, or temporary shelters, when used temporarily in a park for
recreation or play during daylight hours when the park is open to the public.
   CAMP or CAMPING. To itch, use, or occupy camp facilities, or to use camp
paraphernalia, or both for the purpose of habitation. Camp or camping does not
include the use of public property or public facilities for recreational use or
for authorized public or private events that involve the use of tents, awnings,
or other structures in connection with such recreational use or authorized
public or private events.
   CAMP PARAPHERNALIA. Includes, but is not limited to, tarpaulins, cots, beds,
sleeping bags, hammocks, blankets, mattresses, or cooking facilities and
similar equipment.
   PARK. Any publicly owned area controlled by the Village or other
governmental entity for park purposes. Park also includes all associated areas,
including parking lots for parks.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Without limitation, any real property, building, structure,
equipment, sign, shelter, vegetation, greenspace, playground, bench, trail,
picnic shelters, recreational and athletic fields, and public open space,
including all associated areas such as parking lots, controlled or owned by the
Village of Brighton or any other governmental agency.
   STORE or STORING. To put aside or accumulate for use when needed, to put for
safekeeping, or to place or leave in a location, leaving one's personal
property such as, without limitation, clothing, bedrolls, cookware, sleeping
bags, luggage, shopping carts, knapsacks, or backpacks, unattended for more
than one hour.
   STREET. Any highway, lane, road, street (including adjacent shoulders,
medians, and terrace areas), right-of-way, sidewalk, boulevard, alley, and
every way or place in the Village open as a matter of right to public
pedestrian and vehicular travel.
   UNAUTHORIZED ENCAMPMENT. The collection of camp facilities, camp
paraphernalia, and/or personal property used for unauthorized camping in
violation of this ordinance.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 130.22 UNLAWFUL CAMPING OR STORAGE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to camp, or to engage in the
activity of unauthorized camping, or to store personal property, including camp
facilities or camp paraphernalia as defined in this Section of the ordinance,
within the following areas:
      (1)   Any street; or
      (2)   Any bridge; or
      (3)   Any park; or
      (4)   Any public property, improved or unimproved; or
      (5)   Any public property where camping obstructs or interferes with the
intended public use of the property.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 130.23 ENFORCEMENT; WARNINGS; REMOVAL AND CONFISCATION OF DEBRIS AND PERSONAL
PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Macoupin or Jersey County Sheriffs Department and/or the Village
of Brighton Police Department, or their designee(s), will have primary
responsibility for the enforcement of the camping regulations herein. Nothing
in this chapter shall prevent the Officers, or his designee(s), from obtaining
voluntary compliance by way of warning, notice, education, or coordination with
other willing public or private entities and/or community members.
      (1)   Prior to issuing any citation pursuant to this Chapter, the
investigating officer shall provide a verbal and written warning to cease such
unlawful conduct. Any public or private entities who whish to assist the
Macoupin or Jersey County Sherill's Department and/or the Village of Brighton
Police Department ('Department") in effectively and humanely transitioning
individuals from unauthorized encampments on public property to an environment
consistent with Village ordinances should contact the Department with a
description of what services they can provide and effective contact
information.
      (2)   Upon a determination by law enforcement that an area constitutes an
unauthorized encampment, regardless of whether an individual is cited for a
violation of this ordinance, Village officials shall have the right to remove
any debris, contraband, or personal property that creates a legitimate health
and safety concern, or that creates an immediate and substantial danger to the
environment. No warning is required prior to such confiscation relating to
health and safety concerns.
      (3)   Materials confiscated pursuant to this ordinance that are
unsanitary or a danger to the health and safety of any person may be
immediately disposed of. Otherwise, the Department shall provide 24-hour
written notice prior to confiscating property. The Department shall retain
personal property confiscated pursuant to this ordinance in a manner consistent
with the handling of other confiscated property and must not dispose of such
personal property for a period of seven calendar days, during which time the
owner may retrieve such properly from the Department, pursuant to the procedure
outlined in the policy. Nothing prevents Department members from disposing of
property with the consent of the property owner. When Department members have
received consent to dispose of property, Village officials shall assist
Department members when necessary.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 130.24 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person who violates a provision of this chapter as a first offense
may be punished by a fine of not more than $100. All fines under this
subchapter may be satisfied by cash payment or money order.
   (B)   Any person who commits a subsequent violation of this chapter,
occurring within one year of a violation may be punished by a fine of not more
than $750. All fines under this chapter may be satisfied by cash payment or
money order.
   (C)   Each occurrence of a violation of this chapter or, in the case of a
continuous violation, each day a violation occurs or continues, constitutes a
separate offense and shall be punishable separately.
   (D)   Payment of fines shall be made to the Collector of the Village of
Brighton. Any fines collected under this chapter shall be deposited and
maintained in a fund labeled and maintained separate from the General Fund,
with expenditures limited to those expenses specific to enforcement of this
subchapter and training of Police Officers.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §§
130.01 through
130.05 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in §
10.99(A) for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-3-6)
   (C)   A person convicted of a violation of §
130.06 shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be subject to penalty as
provided in §
10.99(A).
(Prior Code, § 5-4-3)
(Ord. 378, passed 2-2-1976; Ord. 410, passed 12-3-1979)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL LAND USAGE PROVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
152.   PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
      
153.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
154.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
155.   ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL LAND USAGE PROVISIONS
Section
   
150.01   Comprehensive plan update adopted by reference
§ 150.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN UPDATE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The “Village of Brighton Comprehensive Plan Update” dated March, 2016,
which contains descriptive narrative and maps relating to proposed land uses
and major streets, is hereby adopted as the official comprehensive plan for the
village and adjoining territory within one and one-half miles of the municipal
boundaries of the village.
   (B)   The Village Clerk is hereby directed to record one copy of the
ordinance from which this section is derived in Macoupin County, and one copy
of the ordinance from which this section is derived in Jersey County to serve
as a notice in the public records with the Macoupin County Recorder of Deeds
and the Jersey County Recorder of Deeds.
(Ord. 804, passed 9-6-2016)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   New buildings; connection to water and sewer
   
151.02   Unsafe property
   
151.03   Residential anti-displacement and relocation assistance plan
   
151.04   Storage containers
Swimming Pools
   
151.15   Location
   
151.16   Fence/barrier requirements; in-ground pools
   
151.17   Fence/barrier requirements; on-ground pools/spas
Occupancy Permits
   
151.30   Occupancy permit; transfer of ownership; change in possession or
occupancy
   
151.31   Temporary and interim occupancy permit
   
151.32   Utilities
   
151.33   Permit fees
   
151.34   Violations
   
151.35   Inspections
   
151.36   Reserved permits
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 NEW BUILDINGS; CONNECTION TO WATER AND SEWER.
   On all new buildings, edifices, or construction of any type constructed,
erected, or placed on any lot or parcel of land within the confines of the
village limits, the same shall be connected to the village sewage and sewer
facilities where such is available; and in addition thereto, the same building,
edifice, or construction of any type shall be connected to the village water.
(Prior Code, § 9-1-1) (Ord. 293, passed 9-8-1965) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.02 UNSAFE PROPERTY.
   (A)   The provisions of 65 ILCS 5/11-31-1, entitled “Unsafe Property,” are
hereby adopted as the procedure and guide for the handling of such unsafe
properties located in the village.
   (B)   Upon the declaration of a property being found to be unsafe and
dangerous by the Mayor and Board of Trustees of the village, the village
authorities will act under the guidelines of said statute in providing the
demolition, repair, enclosure, or remediation of said property.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 6-3-2019)
§ 151.03 RESIDENTIAL ANTI-DISPLACEMENT AND RELOCATION ASSISTANCE PLAN.
   (A)   The village will replace all occupied and vacant occupiable low-to-
moderate income dwelling units demolished or converted to a use other than as
low-to-moderate housing as a direct result of activities assisted with funds
provided under the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, being 42
U.S.C. §§ 5301 et seq., as amended.
   (B)   All replacement housing will be provided within three years of
commencement of the demolition or rehabilitation relating to conversion. Before
obligating or expending funds that will directly result in such demolition or
conversion, the village will make public and submit to DCCA the following
information in writing:
      (1)   A description of the proposed assistance activity;
      (2)   The general location on a map and approximate number of dwelling
units by size (number of bedrooms) that will be demolished or converted to a
use other than as low-to-moderate income dwelling units as a direct result of
the assisted activity;
      (3)   A time schedule for the commencement and completion of the
demolition or conversion;
      (4)   The general location on a map and approximate number of dwelling
units by size (number of bedrooms) that will be provided as replacement
dwelling units;
      (5)   The source of funding and a time schedule for the provision of
replacement dwelling units; and
      (6)   The basis for concluding that each replacement dwelling unit will
remain a low-to-moderate income dwelling unit for at least ten years from the
date of initial occupancy.
   (C)   The village will provide relocation assistance, as described in the
Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, as amended, to each low-to-
moderate income household displaced by the demolition of housing or by the
conversion of a low-to-moderate income dwelling to another use as a direct
result of assisted activities.
   (D)   Consistent with the goals and objectives assisted under the Act, the
village will take the following steps to minimize the displacement of persons
from their homes:
      (1)   Minimize or eliminate any activities such as acquisition or
demolition which could be expected to result in the displacement of low-to-
moderate income persons; and
      (2)   Advocate and seek funds for housing rehabilitation, as opposed to
demolition, especially for occupied housing.
(Res. 600, passed - -)
§ 151.04 STORAGE CONTAINERS.
   A.   The President and Board of Trustees of the Village of Brighton have
determined it is not in the best interest for the public health and safety of
the citizens to allow shipping containers in the Village; and
   B.   Such containers include, but are not limited to, those units or
containers that are intended to be used primarily for shipping goods on
highway, rail lines, waterways, trailers, recreational vehicles, cargo
containers, and/or moving storage pods; and
   C.   These types of containers are typically acquired in used condition and
unworthy for their original function as transportation containers, because of
their typical condition, they continue to deteriorate and become more unsightly
with the passage of time, which reduces the aesthetic quality of the Village;
and
   D.   It is in the best interest of the Village of Brighton that the use of
such containers is hereby prohibited. Therefore, no person shall place or cause
to be placed, or use or permit the use of any storage container in the Village
of Brighton.
   E.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the temporary use for
moving and/or temporary storage, upon obtaining a temporary storage permit from
Village Hall. Said permit under this subsection shall not exceed 60 days.
Temporary storage that may exceed 60 days shall be at the discretion of the
zoning committee.
   F.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the temporary
presence of trucks and other service vehicles for purposes of making deliveries
or rendering service to a property, to the temporary placement of dumpsters or
roll off waste bins used in conjunction with a construction, remodeling,
demolition project, or similar operation, or to placement of dumpsters for
solid waste disposal service by the Village.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 5-6-2024)
SWIMMING POOLS
§ 151.15 LOCATION.
   No portion of a swimming pool outside a building shall be located at a
distance less than eight feet from any side or rear property line or building
line. Pumps, filters, and pool water disinfection equipment installations shall
be located at a distance not less than eight feet from any side property line.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2-7-2018) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.16 FENCE/BARRIER REQUIREMENTS; IN-GROUND POOLS.
   (A)   All in-ground pools shall be completely enclosed by a fence.
   (B)   The top of the barrier shall be at least 48 inches above grade
measured on the side of the barrier that faces away from the aquatic vessel
around the entire perimeter of the vessel and for a distance of three feet
measured horizontally from the required barrier.
   (C)   The maximum vertical clearance between grade and the bottom of the
barrier shall be two inches from surfaces that are not solid, such as grass or
gravel, and measured on the side of the barrier that faces away from the
vessel.
   (D)   Where the top of the vessel is above grade, the barrier shall be at
ground level or mounted on top of the vessel structure, and the maximum
vertical clearance between the top of the vessel structure and the bottom of
the barrier shall be four inches. The maximum vertical clearance between a
surface below the barrier to a solid surface, such as concrete, and the bottom
of the required barrier shall be four inches measured on the side of the
required barrier which faces away from the vessel.
   (E)   Openings in the barrier shall not allow passage of a four-inch
diameter sphere.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2-7-2018) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.17 FENCE/BARRIER REQUIREMENTS; ON-GROUND POOLS/SPAS.
   Where an on-ground residential pool structure is used as a barrier or where
the barrier is mounted on top of the pool structure, the following shall apply.
   (A)   An on-ground pool wall, itself, shall be permitted to be the barrier
where the pool structure is on grade and the wall is at least 48 inches above
grade for the entire perimeter of the pool.
   (B)   Where the means of access is a ladder or steps, the ladder or steps
shall be capable of being secured, locked, or removed to prevent access or the
ladder or steps shall be surrounded by a barrier that meets the requirements of
this section.
   (C)   When the ladder or steps are secured, locked, or removed, any opening
created shall not allow the passage of a four-inch diameter sphere.
   (D)   The barrier shall be installed in accordance with the manufacturer’s
instructions.
   (E)   Spas and hot tubs must include a lockable safety cover that complies
with ASTM F1346 (305.1 General Exceptions).
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 2-7-2018) Penalty, see §
151.99
OCCUPANCY PERMITS
§ 151.30 OCCUPANCY PERMIT; TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP; CHANGE IN POSSESSION OR
OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided herein, it shall be unlawful for the
owner or any agent of an owner to occupy or permit the occupancy by any third
party of any residential dwelling or dwelling unit within the village until
such time as an occupancy permit has been issued by the village. Nothing in
this subchapter shall prohibit the transfer of ownership or possession of the
dwelling or dwelling unit prior to the issuance of an occupancy permit so long
as division (B) below is complied with fully. Residential occupancy permits are
valid for two years from the date of application.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner, seller, lessor, or
transferor of any residential property located within the village to assure
that an occupancy permit will be issued or is issued to any transferee or
occupant assuming possession from the owner, seller, lessor, or transferor of
the property; and, if necessary, to provide for the corrections of any
violations whether such corrections take place prior to or after a transfer of
ownership or possession of the property and before the issuance of the
occupancy permit.
   (C)   An occupancy permit can be applied for:
      (1)   In person at the Village Clerk’s office at the Village Municipal
Building; or
      (2)   By mail, with the application to be sent to:
   Village Clerk
   Brighton Municipal Building
   206 S. Main Street, Box 458
   Brighton, IL 62012
   (D)   After an application is submitted:
      (1)   The applicant must contact the village within seven days of the
application to set up an appointment for an inspection;
      (2)   The inspection must be performed within 30 days from the date of
application;
      (3)   The occupancy permit must be obtained within 30 days from the
initial inspection, which allows time for the correction of all identified
violations; and
      (4)   Property may be occupied prior to the inspection, provided there
are no life safety issues.
   (E)   If the owner, seller, lessor, or transferor provides a true and
correct copy of this subchapter to the purchaser, transferee, or lessee, and
thereafter obtains the purchaser’s, transferee’s, or lessee’s written consent
to assume full responsibility to obtain the occupancy permit, and if necessary,
to correct any violations that may exist to obtain such occupancy permit, then,
upon filing an original of the written consent signed by the party to be so
bound, with the village’s Building and Zoning Administrator, the obligation to
correct any such violations prior to the issuance of any occupancy permit shall
then be the responsibility of the purchaser, transferee, or lessee, who shall
be bound thereby without further notice.
   (F)   For the purposes of divisions (A) and (B) above, the transfer of
possession of a residential dwelling or dwelling unit does not entitle the
transferee or possessor of the dwelling or dwelling unit to occupy the dwelling
or dwelling unit until an occupancy permit is issued. No overnight occupancy
shall be allowed pending any occupancy permit inspection and the actual
issuance of any occupancy permit.
   (G)   This section shall not apply to transfers of residential real estate
wherein the transferee notifies the Building and Zoning Administrator, in
writing, of intent to demolish, within 90 days of the transfer, any buildings
located thereon. The Building and Zoning Administrator may, for good cause
shown, extend the demolition period for one additional period of 90 days. No
overnight occupancy shall be allowed within any dwelling or dwelling unit that
is subject to this demolition exception.
   (H)   This section shall apply to any transfers of dwelling or dwelling
units taking place after the effective date of this section with the exception
of those transfers under contract for sale on or before the effective date
hereof.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-1) (Ord. 817, passed 1-9-2017) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.31 TEMPORARY AND INTERIM OCCUPANCY PERMIT.
   (A)   The owner of a residential property may apply for a temporary
occupancy permit for the purposes of remodeling, rebuilding, or repairing the
structure prior to occupancy so that utilities may be supplied in order to
perform the work. No person shall reside in the structure until a permanent
occupancy permit is obtained.
   (B)   For rental properties, landlords and property owners may obtain an
interim permit to maintain utility service, if necessary, between periods of
tenancy when no one resides in a structure. The interim occupancy permit may be
issued for 90 days, with the Building and Zoning Administrator being allowed
for good cause shown to continue the interim occupancy permit for one
additional 90-day period.
   (C)   This section shall apply to any transfers of dwellings or dwelling
units taking place after the effective date of this section with the exception
of those transfers under contract for sale on or before the effective date of
this section.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-2) (Ord. 817, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 151.32 UTILITIES.
   (A)   With the exception stated in division (B) below, no person or entity
that provides a utility service, such as natural gas, water, electricity, and
the like, shall provide its service to any building, or addition thereto, or
part thereof, that is to be used as a dwelling or dwelling unit until an
occupancy permit, temporary occupancy permit, or interim occupancy permit has
been issued by the Building and Zoning Administrator concerning the dwelling or
dwelling unit.
   (B)   The owner or landlord of a dwelling or dwelling unit may, however,
contact the appropriate utility providers to have the utilities temporarily
transferred to the owner’s name in an emergency such as when tenants move out
without sufficient notice, subjecting the property to damage if the utilities
are not provided to the property. In the event the utilities are temporarily
transferred to the owner’s name in an emergency circumstance, the owner shall
have seven working days to obtain an interim permit from the office of the
Building and Zoning Administrator. If the property owner fails to obtain an
interim permit, then after seven working days, the utility company shall
discontinue services to the property.
   (C)   This section shall apply to any transfers of dwellings or dwelling
units taking place after the effective date of this section with the exception
of those transfers under contract for sale on or before the effective date of
this section.
   (D)   Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays are not considered to be WORKING DAYS
under this section.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-3) (Ord. 817, passed 1-9-2017) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.33 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Residential occupancy permits are $75 (commercial occupancy permit
fees vary based on the building size and features). The village shall accept
cash, check (payable to the village), or credit card. A convenience fee of
2.35% from the applicant’s credit card company will be charged.
   (B)   An additional fee of $75 shall be charged if the applicant or his or
her agent fails to be present at the appointed time scheduled for an inspection
unless written, telephonic, or e-mail notice of the cancellation of a scheduled
inspection is delivered to the Building and Zoning Administrator at least 24
hours in advance of the scheduled inspection. An additional fee of $75 shall be
charged in connection with each subsequent inspection if an inspection of a
residential property indicates that the residential dwelling fails to meet the
minimum standards for the issuance of an occupancy permit.
   (C)   The minimum standard for a property to pass an occupancy inspection
for the issuance of an occupancy permit is that the property being inspected
must not contain any deficiencies in construction or maintenance that could
impact the life, safety, or health of the occupants of the dwelling or dwelling
unit, including, but not by way of limitation, all state statutes for the
installation and maintenance of smoke and carbon monoxide detectors.
   (D)   Any occupancy permit shall be revoked or suspended by the Building and
Zoning Administrator upon a showing that an occupancy permit, temporary
occupancy permit, or interim occupancy permit was issued through the use of a
false or misleading application or any untruthful statement contained upon such
application.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-4) (Ord. 817, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 151.34 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person required to obtain an occupancy permit,
temporary occupancy permit, or interim occupancy permit to fail to obtain the
permit as required by this subchapter or to knowingly make any false or
misleading statement in an application for any type of occupancy permit,
including, without limitation, the names, ages, relationships, or number of
occupants who will occupy the premises.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-5) (Ord. 817, passed 1-9-2017) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.35 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon proper application for an occupancy permit, the Building
and Zoning Administrator or his or her agent shall cause an inspection to be
made of the premises in question to determine if an occupancy permit may be
issued.
      (2)   If the inspection is satisfactory, the Building and Zoning
Administrator shall issue an occupancy permit which shall be valid until the
next change of ownership or occupancy or until said occupancy permit is revoked
by the Building and Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   The specifications for the occupancy permit inspection will be kept at
the Clerk’s office and made available to the public. The specifications shall
be reviewed and approved by resolution of the Village Board of Trustees every
two years or more often, as the Trustees so determine.
   (C)   All inspections are to be conducted by the village Building and Zoning
Administrator or a designee of that office.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-6) (Ord. 817, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 151.36 RESERVED PERMITS.
   (A)   Persons contemplating a change of ownership or occupancy of a dwelling
or dwelling unit may, after payment of the permit fee specified herein, apply
for an occupancy permit to determine if there are any violations of this
subchapter.
   (B)   After proper inspection, if the Building and Zoning Administrator
determines that an occupancy permit may be issued, upon the request of the
applicant, said occupancy permit may be reserved for a reasonable time (not to
exceed 120 days) with the Department of Building and Zoning, to be issued to a
subsequent owner or occupant when such person or persons are ascertained and
qualified for said occupancy permit. No additional fee shall be charged to
issue the occupancy permit.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-7) (Ord. 817, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §§
151.15 through
151.17 shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99(A) for each offense.
   (C)   (1)   Any person or entity found to be in violation of §§
151.30 through
151.36 shall be fined not less than $200 and not more than $250 per day for
each day the violation is found to have occurred. For any owner who is found to
be in violation of §§
151.30 through
151.36 for a second or more offense, within a five-year period, the fine shall
be $500 per day for each day the violation is found to have occurred.
      (2)   The village shall also be entitled to a reimbursement for its
attorney fees, court costs, and expenses of litigation incurred in the
successful prosecution of any violation of §§
151.30 through
151.36.
(Prior Code, § 9-4-5) (Ord. 817, passed 1-9-2017; Ord. 2018-02, passed 2-7-
2018)
CHAPTER 152: PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
Section
Streets, Sidewalks, and Public Ways
   
152.01   Street construction; barriers required
   
152.02   Deposits or obstructions on streets and public
   
152.03   Trees and shrubs
Excavations
   
152.15   Permit required
   
152.16   Boring under streets and sidewalks
   
152.17   Restoration of street or sidewalk
   
152.18   Retain deposit
Culverts
   
152.30   Specifications
Digging or Excavating on Village Property
   
152.45   Permit required
   
152.46   Authorization from JULIE required
   
152.47   Restoration
   
152.48   Refund of deposit
   
152.49   Restoration by village
   
152.50   Insufficient deposit
   
152.51   Payment of additional charges; notice
 
   
152.99   Penalty
STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC WAYS
§ 152.01 STREET CONSTRUCTION; BARRIERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Authority to place barriers. Whenever any public street, bridge,
culvert, or sidewalk thereon is being built or repaired or is being oiled or
improved, the public works committee having such work in charge shall, when it
deems it necessary, erect or cause to be erected at such points as it shall
deem desirable, suitable barriers, with signs thereon, stating that said street
is closed and by whose order said street has been closed. Said officials may,
in their discretion, erect or cause to be erected, at such places as they may
deem best, detour signs directing travel around said construction.
   (B)   Removal of barriers or defacement of street. Whenever any street,
road, or alley has been closed as provided herein, it shall be unlawful for any
person to move or take down said barrier or sign or to deface any part of said
street so closed, except to walk upon a sidewalk not being repaired on said
street.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1) (Ord. 157, passed 11-7-1940) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.02 DEPOSITS OR OBSTRUCTIONS ON STREETS AND PUBLIC.
   (A)   Deposits on streets. No person in the village shall deposit or dump
any grass, leaves, branches, garbage, or other refuse upon any street,
sidewalk, or public place except in proper containers as provided by ordinance
for garbage pickup.
   (B)   Placing dangerous materials on streets. No person shall place, throw,
or deposit any glass, nails, tacks, or similar articles on any street,
sidewalk, alley, or other public place in the village.
   (C)   Using streets for commercial purposes. No person in the village shall
set up any stand, booth, or other structure or park any truck or other vehicle
in any street or alley for the purpose of selling or displaying for sale any
goods, wares, or other merchandise.
   (D)   Playing in streets. No person shall play any game or amusement or
allow their children to play any game or amusement in any public street in the
village, except small children may be allowed to play upon sidewalks in
residential areas.
   (E)   Obstructing travel. No person in the village shall willfully hinder,
obstruct, or delay another person in lawfully driving, walking, or traveling
along or upon a street or a sidewalk.
   (F)   Burning on public streets and rights-of-way. No person in the village
shall burn, or cause to be burned, any materials on the public streets,
alleyways, or public rights-of-way of the village.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2) (Ord. 665, passed 5-5-2008) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03 TREES AND SHRUBS.
   (A)   Planting. It shall be unlawful to plant any tree or bush in any public
street or parkway or other public place without having first secured a permit
therefore. Applications for such permits shall be made to the Public Works
Superintendent and shall be referred by him or her to the Village Board. All
trees and shrubs so planted shall be placed subject to the directions and
approval of the Village Board.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-1)
   (B)   Planting trees in right-of-way. It shall be unlawful to plant any
bushes, trees, shrubs or other plants on the right-of-way of any public street,
including the space on the right-of-way between the sidewalk and the adjacent
street pavement.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-2)
   (C)   Removal. It shall be unlawful to remove or cut down any tree or shrub
or portion thereof in any street, parkway, or other public place without having
first secured a permit therefore. Applications for such permits shall be made
to the Public Works Superintendent and shall be referred by him or her to the
Village Board before permission shall be granted.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-3)
   (D)   Injury. It shall be unlawful to injure any tree or shrub planted in
such public place.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-4)
   (E)   Advertisements or notices. It shall be unlawful to attach any sign,
advertisement, or notice to any tree or shrub in any street, parkway, or other
public place.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-5)
   (F)   Dangerous trees. Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk,
street, or other public place in the municipality at a height less than eight
feet or in such a way as to impede or interfere with traffic or travel on such
public place shall be trimmed by the owner of the abutting premises or of the
premises on which such tree or shrub grows so that the obstruction shall cease.
      (1)   Any tree or limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on or
across any public way or place shall be removed by the owner of the premises on
which such tree grows or stands.
      (2)   The Public Works Superintendent may, at the owner’s expense, trim
or remove any tree or shrub so that the obstruction or danger to traffic or
passage shall be done away with.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-6)
   (G)   Wires.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to attach any wires or rope to any tree or
shrub in any public street, parkway or other public place without the
permission of the Village Board.
      (2)   Any person or company given the right to maintain the poles and
wires in the streets, alleys, or other public places in the municipality shall,
in the absence of provision in the franchise concerning the subject, keep such
wires and poles free from and away from any trees or shrubs in such places so
far as may be possible and shall keep all such trees and shrubs properly
trimmed, subject to the supervision of the Public Works Superintendent so that
no injury shall be done either to the poles or wires or the shrubs and trees by
their conduct.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-7)
   (H)   Gas pipes. Any person or company maintaining any gas pipe in the
municipality shall, in the absence of provision in the franchise concerning the
subject, keep such pipes free from leaks so that no injury shall be done to any
trees or shrubs.
(Prior Code, § 33-3-8)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see 65 ILCS 5/11-80-2
EXCAVATIONS
§ 152.15 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Prior to the time that any individual, firm, corporation, or utility shall
begin digging or otherwise breaking the surface of a public street, passageway,
or sidewalk, a permit shall be obtained from the Board of Trustees or its duly
authorized agent; and, with the application for such permit, there shall be
paid the sum of $1,000, cash or cashier’s check only.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-1) (Ord. 422, passed 12-7-1981) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.16 BORING UNDER STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   The village retains the right to require boring under sidewalks and streets.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-2)
§ 152.17 RESTORATION OF STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   Restoration required. The individual, firm, corporation, or utility so
digging or breaking the street surface, passageway, or sidewalk shall be
required to restore said street, passageway, or sidewalk to its original
condition within 15 days from the time that all work is completed which
required the digging or breaking of said street, passageway, or sidewalk. All
restoration shall be done to specifications set forth by the village.
   (B)   Refund of deposit. If the street, passageway, or sidewalk has been
restored to its original condition, then the Board of Trustees or its duly
authorized agent shall refund the deposit to the individual, firm, corporation,
or utility who paid said deposit.
   (C)   Restoration by village; charges. If it is determined that the street,
passageway, or sidewalk has not been returned to its original condition, then
the Board of Trustees or its duly authorized agent is authorized to repair the
said street, passageway, or sidewalk and charge the same individual, firm,
corporation, or utility for the said repair work and refund only the balance.
   (D)   Insufficient deposit. In the event said deposit is not sufficient to
pay for all the repairs, then the Board of Trustees or its duly authorized
agent shall make demand on the individual, firm, corporation, or utility so
causing damage for additional funds which will be sufficient to make all the
repairs so as to bring the street, passageway, or sidewalk back to its original
condition.
   (E)   Payment of additional charges; notice. Any additional sum demanded
shall be paid within 15 days from the date of written notice or said
individual, firm, corporation, or utility so violating this subchapter shall be
subject to penalties as set out in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-3) (Ord. 422, passed 12-7-1981) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.18 RETAIN DEPOSIT.
   The deposit of $1,000 shall be held for a period of six months to determine
adequacy of the repairs made by any individual, firm, corporation, or utility,
and in the event the village is required to make said repairs, no refund, if
any, shall be made until the passage of six months from the time the village
repairs said street, passageway, or sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-4) (Ord. 422, passed 12-7-1981)
CULVERTS
§ 152.30 SPECIFICATIONS.
   All culverts installed in ditches along the village streets, alleys, or
thoroughfares shall be 12 inches in diameter, or as directed by the village,
and shall be constructed of village-approved material. A cleanout box shall be
installed at 30-foot intervals along the length of the culvert. The Public
Works Manager of the village shall have discretion to determine the final
specifications required in the installation of any culvert.
(Prior Code, § 7-3-2) (Ord. 624, passed 5-24-2004) Penalty, see §
152.99
DIGGING OR EXCAVATING ON VILLAGE PROPERTY
§ 152.45 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Prior to any individual, firm, corporation, organization, or utility digging
in the public parks or other public lands of the village, a permit shall be
obtained from the Board of Trustees, or its duly authorized agent; and, with
the application for such permit, there shall be paid the sum of $1,000, cash or
cashier’s check only, as a deposit.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-1) (Ord. 743, passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.46 AUTHORIZATION FROM JULIE REQUIRED.
   Prior to any individual, firm, corporation, organization, or utility digging
in the public lands of the village, such individual, firm, corporation,
organization, or utility shall contact JULIE, and obtain the location of all
underground utilities, buried water lines, gas lines, telephone lines, cable
lines, and the like, to prevent any injury or damages to the same.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-2) (Ord. 743, passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.47 RESTORATION.
   The individual, firm, corporation, organization, or utility so digging and/
or excavating in the parks and/or public properties of the village shall be
required to restore the surface of said properties to its original condition
within 15 days from the time that all work is completed. All restoration shall
be done to the specifications as set forth by the village, as determined by its
Public Works Manager.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-3) (Ord. 743, passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.48 REFUND OF DEPOSIT.
   If the surface of the properties of the village has been restored to its
original condition, the Board of Trustees or its duly authorized agent shall
refund the deposit to the individual, firm, corporation, organization, or
utility that paid said deposit.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-4) (Ord. 743, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 152.49 RESTORATION BY VILLAGE.
   If it is determined that the properties of the village have not been
returned to their original condition, then the Board of Trustees or its duly
authorized agent is authorized to repair the said public properties and charge
the same individual, firm, corporation, organization, or utility for the cost
thereof against the deposit. Any portion of the deposit not used for
restoration shall be returned to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-5) (Ord. 743, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 152.50 INSUFFICIENT DEPOSIT.
   In the event the deposit is not sufficient to pay for all the repairs, the
Board of Trustees or its duly authorized agent shall make demand on the
individual, firm, corporation, organization, or utility so causing damage to
the public properties of the village for additional funds which will be
sufficient to make all the repairs to restore the public properties to their
original condition.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-6) (Ord. 743, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 152.51 PAYMENT OF ADDITIONAL CHARGES; NOTICE.
   Any additional sum demanded shall be paid within 15 days from the date of
written notice or said individual, firm, corporation, organization, or utility
so violating this chapter shall be subject to penalties as provided in §
152.99.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-7) (Ord. 743, passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
152.01(B) shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99(A). In addition thereto, said person convicted shall be held liable for
any and all damage caused to said street, bridge, sidewalk, or culvert by
reason of his or her violation of the foregoing provisions.
(Prior Code, § 7-1-1)
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of §
152.02 shall be subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99(A).
(Prior Code, § 7-1-2)
   (D)   In the event any individual, firm, corporation, or utility fails to
comply with all of the provisions of §§
152.15 through
152.18, said individual, firm, corporation, or utility shall be subject to
penalty as provided in §
10.99(A) for each offense. An offense shall be determined as being committed
each day that any digging or breaking of a street, passageway, or sidewalk
exists prior to obtaining a permit and paying said deposit, and a separate
offense shall be determined as having been committed for each day that any
individual, firm, corporation, or utility fails to pay any additional sum
necessary to make said repairs after the lapse of 15 days from the date written
demand was made for said payment.
(Prior Code, § 7-2-5)
   (E)   In the event any individual, firm, corporation, organization, or
utility fails to comply with all the provisions of §§
152.45 through
152.51, said individual, firm, corporation, organization, or utility shall be
subject to penalty as provided in §
10.99(A) for each offense. An offense shall be determined as being committed
each day that any digging, breaking ground, or excavating in any public
properties of the village exists prior to obtaining a permit and paying said
deposit. A separate offense shall be determined as having been committed for
each day that any individual, firm, corporation, organization, or utility fails
to pay any additional sum necessary to make said repairs after the lapse of 15
days from the date written demand has been made for payment.
(Prior Code, § 7-4-8)
(Ord. 157, passed 11-7-1940; Ord. 422, passed 12-7-1981; Ord. 665, passed 5-5-
2008; Ord. 743, passed 10-7-2013)
CHAPTER 153: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
   
153.01   Purpose
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Permit requirements
   
153.04   Permit application
   
153.05   Duties of the Village Clerk
   
153.06   Review of the proposed development
   
153.07   Review of permit application
   
153.08   Review of subdivision proposals
   
153.09   Water supply systems
   
153.10   Sanitary sewerage and waste disposal systems
   
153.11   Variances
   
153.12   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.13   Disclaimer of liability
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the village
by the State Municipal Code in order to accomplish the following purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   Protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   (C)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, as well as flood rescue and relief operations;
   (D)   Maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (E)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (F)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and storm water impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitats,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits, and enhance
community and economic development.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-1) (Ord. 676, passed 3-2-2009)
Statutory reference:
   State Municipal Code, see 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8,
and 5/11-31-2
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to real estate, including, but not
necessarily limited to:
         (a)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration of a building;
         (b)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
         (c)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site
for a manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than
180 days per year;
         (d)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
culverts, or similar projects;
         (e)   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls, or fences;
         (f)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating,
paving, or other alterations of the ground surface;
         (g)   Storage of materials, including the placement of gas and liquid
storage tanks; and
         (h)   Channel modifications or any other activity that might change
the direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include routine maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing, and similar
practices that do not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation, or the runoff of surface water from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source (see the definition of FLOOD).
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, that
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
   STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including gas or liquid storage tanks, that is principally aboveground. The
term includes RVs and travel trailers on-site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damage condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred
regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and materials must
be included in this determination.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure before the improvement or repair is started.
      (2)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the
building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or the State Register of Historic Places.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-2) (Ord. 676, passed 3-2-2009)
§ 153.03 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by state law
shall commence any development activity without first obtaining a development
permit from the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-3) (Ord. 676, passed 3-2-2009) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.04 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   To obtain a permit, the applicant must first file a permit application on a
form furnished for that purpose. The form must be completed and submitted to
the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-4) (Ord. 676, passed 3-2-2009)
§ 153.05 DUTIES OF THE VILLAGE CLERK.
   The Mayor or his or her duly appointed agent, hereinafter called the permit
officer, shall be responsible for the general administration of this chapter
and ensure that all development activities under the jurisdiction of the
village meet the requirements of this chapter. The Village Clerk shall be
responsible for receiving applications and examining the plans and
specifications for the application, and forward the application to the Planning
Committee. The permit officer shall require any additional measures which are
necessary to meet the minimum requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-5) (Ord. 676, passed 3-2-2009)
§ 153.06 REVIEW OF THE PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   The permit officer shall review proposed development to assure that
all necessary permits have been received from those governmental agencies from
which approval is required by federal or state law, including § 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1344.
   (B)   If the development is proposed for a channel or adjacent area of a
stream draining one square mile or more, the applicant must first secure a
permit from the IDNR/OWR, or a letter stating “permit not required.”
(Prior Code, § 9-3-6) (Ord. 676, passed 3-2-2009)
§ 153.07 REVIEW OF PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   The permit officer shall review all permit applications to determine
whether proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding.
   (B)   If a proposed building site is in a flood-prone area, all new
construction and substantial improvements (including the placement of
prefabricated buildings and manufactured homes) shall:
      (1)   Be designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure;
      (2)   Be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
      (3)   Be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
and
      (4)   Be constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and
air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/
or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during flooding.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-7) (Ord. 676, passed 3-2-2009)
§ 153.08 REVIEW OF SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   The permit officer shall review subdivision proposals and other
proposed new development to determine whether such proposals will be reasonably
safe from flooding.
   (B)   If a subdivision proposal or other proposed new development is in a
flood-prone area, any such proposals shall be reviewed to assure that:
      (1)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage within the flood-prone area;
      (2)   All public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical,
and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage; and
      (3)   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure of flood hazards.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-8) (Ord. 676, passed 3-2-2009)
§ 153.09 WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS.
   The permit officer shall require within flood-prone areas new and
replacement water supply systems, to be designed to minimize or eliminate
infiltration of floodwaters into the systems.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-9) (Ord. 676, passed 3-2-2009)
§ 153.10 SANITARY SEWERAGE AND WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   The permit officer shall require within flood-prone areas:
   (A)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems, to be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters; and
   (B)   On-site waste disposal systems, to be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-10) (Ord. 676, passed 3-2-2009)
§ 153.11 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a
specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the Village Board of
Trustees for a variance. The Village Board of Trustees shall review the
applicant’s request for a variance and shall submit its recommendation. The
Village Board of Trustees may attach such conditions to granting of a variance
as it deems necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   (B)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that
all of the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain.
      (2)   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted.
      (3)   The relief requested is the minimum necessary.
      (4)   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety, or
creation of a nuisance.
      (5)   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue, or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or
other public facilities.
      (6)   The applicant’s circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP.
      (7)   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   (C)   The Village Board of Trustees shall notify an applicant in writing
that a variance from the requirements of the building protection standards that
would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
      (1)   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per
$100 of insurance coverage;
      (2)   Increase the risks to life and property; and/or
      (3)   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks
and that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-11) (Ord. 676, passed 3-2-2009)
§ 153.12 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter repeals and replaces any other ordinances adopted by the
village to fulfill the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program.
   (B)   However, this chapter does not repeal the original resolution or
ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility in the program. Nor does this chapter
repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. Where this chapter and other ordinance easements, covenants, or
deed restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-13) (Ord. 676, passed 3-2-2009)
§ 153.13 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the village or any officer, agent, or employee thereof for any flood damage
that results from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-14) (Ord. 676, passed 3-2-2009)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined not less than $25 nor more than $250. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 9-3-12) (Ord. 676, passed 3-2-2009)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Jurisdiction
   
154.03   Interpretation
   
154.04   Disclaimer of liability
   
154.05   Review
   
154.06   Definitions
Design and Improvement Standards
   
154.20   Applicability of subchapter
   
154.21   Suitability for subdivision generally
   
154.22   Lot requirements
   
154.23   Reference monuments
   
154.24   Street design standards
   
154.25   Street improvement standards
   
154.26   Blocks
   
154.27   Sidewalks
   
154.28   Streetlights
   
154.29   Street name signs
   
154.30   Utilities
   
154.31   Water facilities
   
154.32   Sanitary sewers
   
154.33   Drainage and storm sewers
   
154.34   Erosion and sedimentation control
Plats and Plans
   
154.45   Preliminary plats
   
154.46   Improvement plans
   
154.47   Assurance for completion of required improvements
   
154.48   Final plats
   
154.49   Maintenance of improvements
   
154.50   Vacation of plats
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.65   Enforcement officer, duties
   
154.66   Amendments
   
154.67   Schedule of fees
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   In accordance with state statutes, 65 ILCS 5/11-12-5, this chapter
regulates the subdivision and development of land in order to implement the
municipal comprehensive plan and official map of the village.
   (B)   This chapter shall assist in achieving the following specific
objectives:
      (1)   To preserve, protect, and promote the public health, safety, and
welfare of the citizens of the village;
      (2)   To provide a pleasant living environment by furthering the orderly
layout and use of land;
      (3)   To avoid legal and other problems by requiring that subdivided land
be properly monumented and recorded;
      (4)   To conserve and increase the value of land, improvements, and
buildings throughout this municipality;
      (5)   To preserve the natural beauty and topography of this municipality
to the maximum feasible extent;
      (6)   To provide adequate light, air, and privacy for all residents of
new developments by preventing undue concentration of population;
      (7)   To protect against injury or damage caused by fire, pollution,
flooding, storm water runoff, or erosion and sedimentation;
      (8)   To provide safe and convenient access to new developments and to
avoid traffic congestion and unnecessary public expenditures by requiring the
proper location, design, and construction of streets and sidewalks;
      (9)   To reduce the cost of installing and maintaining adequate water
mains, sanitary sewers, storm water sewers, and other utilities and services;
and
      (10)   To ensure that adequate parks, schools, and similar facilities can
be made available to serve the residents of new developments.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-1) (Ord. 731, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 154.02 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall be applicable within the corporate limits of the village
and within all unincorporated territory located within one and one-half miles
of said limits, provided such territory is not located within the subdivision
jurisdiction of another municipality.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-2) (Ord. 731, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 154.03 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Minimum requirements. Every provision of this chapter shall be
construed liberally in favor of the village, and every regulation set forth
herein shall be considered the minimum requirement for the promotion of the
public health, safety, and welfare.
   (B)   More restrictive requirements apply. Whenever the requirements of this
chapter differ from those of any statute, lawfully adopted ordinance or
regulation, easement, covenant, or deed restriction, the more stringent
requirement shall prevail. Thus, in accordance with 65 ILCS 5/11-12-11,
whenever this chapter imposes higher standards than the county subdivision
ordinance, said higher standards shall supersede the county regulations in the
unincorporated territory located within the village’s subdivision jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-3) (Ord. 731, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 154.04 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   Except as may be provided otherwise by statute or ordinance, no
officer, Board member, agent, or employee of this municipality shall render
himself or herself personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons
or property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of
his or her duties under this chapter.
   (B)   Any suit brought against any officer, Board member, agent, or employee
of the village, as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge
of his or her duties under this chapter shall be defended by the Village
Attorney until the final determination of the legal proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-4) (Ord. 731, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 154.05 REVIEW.
   This chapter shall be reviewed by a committee appointed by the Mayor of the
village, as said Board may find convenient or necessary.
(Prior Code, § 11-1-6) (Ord. 731, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 154.06 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Construction of terms. In construing the intended meaning of
terminology used in this chapter, the following rules shall be observed.
      (1)   Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, words and phrases
shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in division (B) below;
terms not defined in division (B) below shall have the meanings respectively
ascribed to them in the zoning ordinance of the village, Chapter 155 of this
code. If any term is not defined either in division (B) below or in the zoning
ordinance, said term shall have its standard English dictionary meaning.
      (2)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders.
      (3)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
      (4)   Words used in the singular number shall include the plural number,
and the plural the singular.
      (5)   The word SHALL is mandatory; the word MAY is discretionary.
      (6)   The term THIS MUNICIPALITY shall mean the Village of Brighton,
Macoupin and Jersey Counties, Illinois.
      (7)   All distances shall be measured to the nearest integral food; six
inches or more shall be deemed one foot.
      (8)   Captions (i.e., titles of sections, divisions, and the like) are
intended merely to facilitate general reference and in no way limit the
substantive application of the provisions set forth thereunder.
      (9)   References to sections shall be deemed to include all divisions
within that section, but a reference to a particular division designates only
that division.
      (10)   A general term that follows or is followed by enumerations of
specific terms shall not be limited to the enumerated class unless expressly
limited.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-1)
   (B)   Definitions.
      ADMINISTRATOR. The official appointed by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees to administer this chapter, or his or her duly
authorized representative.
      ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords a secondary means of vehicular
access to the side or rear of premises that front on a nearby street.
      AMENDMENT. A change in the provisions of this chapter, properly effected
in accordance with state law and the procedures set forth herein.
      AREA, GROSS. The entire area within the lot lines of the property
proposed for subdivision/development, including any areas to be dedicated/
reserved for street and alley rights-of-way and for public uses.
      ARTERIAL STREET. A street designed or utilized primarily for high
vehicular speeds or for heavy volumes of traffic on a continuous route with
intersections at grade, or on which traffic-control devices are used to
expedite the safe movement of through traffic.
      BLOCK. An area of land entirely bounded by streets, highways, barriers,
or ways (except alleys, pedestrianways, or exterior boundaries of a
subdivision, unless the exterior boundary is a street, highway, or way) or
bounded by a combination of streets, public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-
of-way, waterways, or corporate boundary lines.
      CATCH BASIN. A receptacle, located where a street gutter opens into a
sewer, designed to retain matter that would not readily pass through the sewer.
      CENTERLINE.
         (a)   The CENTERLINE of any right-of-way having a uniform width.
         (b)   The original CENTERLINE, where a right-of-way has been widened
irregularly.
         (c)   The new CENTERLINE, whenever a road has been relocated.
      CENTERLINE OFFSET. The distance between the centerlines of two roughly
parallel streets, measured along the third street with which both said parallel
streets intersect.
      COLLECTOR STREET. A street which carries or is proposed to carry
intermediate volumes of traffic from local streets to arterial streets and
which may or may not be continuous.
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The plan or any portion thereof adopted by the Board
of Trustees to guide and coordinate the physical and economic development of
this municipality. The COMPREHENSIVE PLAN includes, but is not limited to,
plans and programs regarding the location, character, and extent of highways,
bridges, public buildings or uses, utilities, schools, residential, commercial,
or industrial land uses, parks, drainage facilities, and the like.
      CROSS SLOPE. The degree of inclination measured across a right-of-way
rather than in the direction traffic moves on said right-of-way.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A short minor local street having only one outlet for
vehicular traffic and having the other end permanently terminated by a
turnaround for vehicles; the term may also be used to refer solely to said
turnaround.
      CURB AND GUTTER, INTEGRAL. The rim forming the edge of a street plus the
channel for leading off surface water, constructed of poured concrete as a
single facility.
      DEDICATE. To transfer the ownership of a right-of-way, parcel of land, or
improvement to this municipality or other public entity without compensation.
      DEVELOP. To erect any structure or to install any improvements on a tract
of land, or to undertake any activity (such as grading) in preparation
therefor.
      DIMENSIONS. Refers to both lot depth and lot width.
      DISTRICT, ZONING. A portion of the territory of this municipality wherein
certain uniform requirements or various combinations thereof apply to
structures, lots, and uses under the terms of the zoning ordinance.
      EASEMENT. A right to use a portion of another person’s real property for
certain limited purposes.
      ESCROW DEPOSIT. A deposit in cash or other approved securities to assure
the completion of improvements within a subdivision.
      FRONTAGE. The linear extent of the front (street side) of a lot.
      FRONTAGE ROAD. A minor street fronting on an arterial street or highway
(usually a limited access highway), used for access to abutting lots.
      GRADE. The degree of inclination of the site or right-of-way, expressed
as a percentage. A synonym for SLOPE.
      IMPROVEMENT PLANS. The engineering plans showing types of materials and
construction details for the structures and facilities to be installed in, or
in conjunction with, a subdivision.
      IMPROVEMENTS. Any street, curb and gutter, sidewalk, drainage ditch,
sewer, catch basin, off-street parking area, or other facility necessary for
the general use of property owners in a subdivision.
      INTERSECTION. The point at which two or more public rights-of-way
(generally streets) meet.
      LOCAL COLLECTOR STREET. A street used primarily to collect limited
amounts of residential traffic and for access to abutting properties, and on
which the speed limit is low and traffic volume is minimal.
      LOCAL STREET. A street serving limited amounts of residential traffic,
and used for access to abutting property.
      LOT. A tract of land intended as a unit for the purpose (whether
immediate or future) of development or transfer of ownership. A LOT may or may
not coincide with a LOT OF RECORD.
      LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plan bounded by the front, side, and
rear lines of a lot.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot having at least two adjacent sides that abut for their
full length upon streets. Either of such side lines shall be deemed FRONT LOT
LINES.
      LOT OF RECORD. An area of land designated as a lot on a plat of
subdivision recorded with the Recorder of Deeds of Macoupin or Jersey County,
in accordance with state law.
      LOT, THROUGH. A lot having a pair of approximately parallel lot lines
that abut two approximately parallel streets. Either of such lot lines shall be
deemed FRONT LOT LINES.
      MAINTENANCE BOND. A surety bond, posted by the developer and approved by
this municipality, guaranteeing the satisfactory condition of installed
improvements, except sidewalks, for the two-year period following their
construction and dedication of said improvements.
      MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A local street providing access to abutting
properties.
      OFFICIAL MAP. A graphic statement of the capital improvements planned by
this municipality which require the acquisition of land (such as streets,
drainage systems, parks, and the like).
      PERFORMANCE BOND. A surety bond posted by the developer and approved by
this municipality, guaranteeing the installation of required improvements
within, or in conjunction with, a subdivision.
      PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the village; which may
also be referred to herein as the planning committee of the village.
      PLAT, FINAL. The final engineering and architectural maps, drawings, and
supporting material indicating the subdivider’s plan of the subdivision, which,
if approved, may be filed with the Macoupin or Jersey County Recorder of Deeds.
      PLAT, PRELIMINARY. Preliminary engineering and architectural maps,
drawings, and supportive material indicating the proposed layout of a
subdivision.
      RESERVE. To set aside a parcel of land in anticipation of its acquisition
by this municipality (or other government entity) for public purposes.
      RESERVE STRIP. A narrow strip of land between a public street and
adjacent lots which is designated on a recorded subdivision plat or property
deed as land over which vehicular travel is not permitted.
      REVERSE CURVE. A curve in a street heading in approximately the opposite
direction from the curve immediately preceding it so as to form an S-shape.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY, PUBLIC. A strip of land which the owner/subdivider has
dedicated to this municipality or other unit of government for streets, alleys,
and other public improvements.
      SETBACK, FRONT. The horizontal distance between the street right-of-way
line and the building line. Minimum setback requirements are set forth in the
zoning ordinance.
      SEWERAGE SYSTEM, PRIVATE. A sewer system including collection and
treatment facilities established by the developer to serve a new subdivision in
an outlying area.
      SIDEWALK. A pedestrianway constructed in compliance with the standards of
this chapter, generally abutting or near the curb line of the street.
      STOP ORDER. An order used by the Administrator to halt work in progress
that is in violation of this chapter.
      STREET. A public or private way for motor vehicle travel. The term STREET
includes a highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, pike, avenue,
boulevard, lane, place, drive, court, and similar designations, but excludes an
alley or a way for pedestrian use only.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground, or attached to
something having a fixed location on the ground. All buildings are STRUCTURES
but not all structures are buildings.
      STUB STREET. A street that is temporarily terminated, but that is planned
for future continuation.
      SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
estate, or other group or combination acting as a unit, dividing or proposing
to divide land in a manner that constitutes a “subdivision” as defined in this
section.
      SUBDIVISION. Any division of land into two or more lots, except as set
forth in the Plat Act, 765 ILCS 205/1 et seq.
      SUBDIVISION, MINOR. A division of land into two but not more than four
lots, all of which front upon an existing street, and not involving any new
streets, or other rights-of-way, easements, improvements, or other provisions
for public areas and facilities.
      TOPOGRAPHY. The relief features or surface configuration of an area of
land.
      VACATE. To terminate the legal existence of a right-of-way or subdivision
and to so note on the final plat recorded with the Macoupin or Jersey County
Recorder of Deeds.
(Prior Code, § 11-2-2)
(Ord. 731, passed 7-1-2013)
DESIGN AND IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
§ 154.20 APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   Compliance required. No land within the subdivision jurisdiction of
this municipality (other than land that is specifically exempted from the
requirements of the State Plat Act, 765 ILCS 205) shall be subdivided or
developed except in compliance with the regulations of this subchapter and the
applicable provisions of state law. No lot in any subdivision shall be conveyed
until:
      (1)   The final plat of said subdivision has been approved by the Board
of Trustees and recorded in the office of the Macoupin or Jersey County
Recorder of Deeds; and
      (2)   The portion of said subdivision in which the lot is located has
been improved in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter or until a
performance bond or other security has been posted to assure the completion of
such improvements.
   (B)   Building permit issuance. The administrator shall not issue a building
permit for any lot conveyed in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-1) (Ord. 731, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 154.21 SUITABILITY FOR SUBDIVISION GENERALLY.
   Land that is unsuitable for development due to flooding, poor drainage,
rough topography, adverse soil conditions, or other features which will be
harmful to the health, safety, and general welfare of the inhabitants of the
subdivision and/or its surrounding areas, shall not be subdivided or developed
unless the subdivider/developer formulates adequate plans/methods to solve the
problems caused by the adverse land conditions.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-2) (Ord. 731, passed 7-1-2013) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.22 LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   All lots in a subdivision shall conform to the minimum lot area and
dimension requirements of the zoning district in which said subdivision is
located.
      (2)   Land that is under water or reserved for street improvements shall
not be counted to satisfy these minimum requirements.
      (3)   Every corner and through lot shall be large enough to permit
compliance with the district’s front setback requirements on every side of the
lot that faces a street.
      (4)   All lot remnants shall be added to adjacent lots to avoid the
creation of unbuildable parcels.
      (5)   All lots shall contain adequate space for required off-street
parking and loading.
   (B)   Access and relationship to street. Land shall be subdivided in such a
way that each lot abuts a street meeting the requirements of §
154.24. All side lot lines shall be at right angles to straight street right-
of-way lines or radial to curved street right-of-way lines except where a
deviation from this rule will provide a better street and lot design.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-3) (Ord. 731, passed 7-1-2013) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.23 REFERENCE MONUMENTS.
   (A)   Stone or reinforced concrete reference monuments, set in the ground in
such a manner that they will not be moved by frost, shall be placed in the
field in accordance with the Plat Act, being 765 ILCS 205, as now or hereafter
amended.
   (B)   All lot corners shall be marked by one-half inch iron pins not less
than 24 inches long.
   (C)   These pins shall be driven into the ground deep enough that they do
not protrude above the ground surface more than one and one-half inches.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-4) (Ord. 731, passed 7-1-2013) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.24 STREET DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Specifications. All streets shall be properly integrated with the
existing and proposed street system indicated in the municipal comprehensive
plan, and shall meet the specifications set forth below.
 
Table of Street Design Specifications (Illustrative)
          Max. Number
Type of   of Dwelling   Permitted On-  Required     Required       Grades
Street    Units/Net     Street Parking Right-of-Way Pavement Width
          Acre
          Over 250                                                 Maximum 8%
Collector dwelling      None           70’        44’          Minimum 0.3%
          units served
Local     2 - 3.99      One side only  50’        30’          Maximum 12%
                                                                   Minimum 0.3%
Local     4 and greater Both sides     60’        36’          Maximum 8%
collector                                                          Minimum 0.3%
Marginal  To 1.99       None           50’        20’          Maximum 12%
access                                                             Minimum 0.3%
 
   (B)   Topographical considerations. Grades of streets shall conform as
closely as possible to the natural topography, but shall not exceed the maximum
grade nor be less than the minimum grade indicated in division (A) above. All
streets shall be arranged so that as many as possible of the building sites are
at or above street grade.
   (C)   Through traffic discouraged. Marginal access and local streets shall
be laid out so as to discourage use by through traffic. The rigid rectangular
gridiron street pattern shall be avoided, and the use of curvilinear streets,
cul-de-sacs, or U-shaped streets shall be encouraged to effect a more desirable
street layout.
   (D)   Limited access to arterials. Where a subdivision abuts or contains an
existing or proposed arterial street, the planning committee may recommend to
the Board of Trustees that access to said arterial be limited by one of the
following means:
      (1)   The subdivision of lots so that they back onto the arterial street
and front onto a parallel local street (double frontage lots), coupled with the
installation of screening in a reserve (access restricting) strip along the
rear lot lines of such lots;
      (2)   A series of cul-de-sacs, U-shaped streets, or short loops entered
from and generally at right angles to the arterial street, with the rear lot
lines of the lots at the termini of such streets backing onto the arterial; or
      (3)   A frontage road separated from the arterial street by a planting
strip, but having access thereto at suitable points.
   (E)   Dead end streets.
      (1)   Temporary stub streets. Streets shall be so arranged to provide for
the continuation of principal streets between adjacent properties when such
continuation is necessary for the convenient movement of traffic, effective
fire and police protection, and efficient provision of utilities, and where
such continuation comports with the municipal comprehensive plan. If the
adjacent property is undeveloped and the street must dead end temporarily, the
right-of-way shall be extended to the property line, and no strip that would
prevent connections with future streets shall be reserved. A temporary
turnabout shall be provided at the terminus of any temporary dead-end street.
      (2)   Permanent dead-end streets. For greater convenience to traffic and
more effective police and fire protection, permanent dead-end streets shall be
limited to 500 feet in length. The terminus of a permanent dead-end street
shall not be closer than 50 feet to the boundary of an adjacent tract. A cul-
de-sac turnaround, having a minimum right-of-way radius of 72 feet and a
minimum pavement radius of 60 feet, shall be provided at the end of every
permanent dead-end street.
   (F)   Alleys. Alleys shall be prohibited in single-family residential
districts. Alleys may be required in multiple-family districts and in
commercial/industrial districts unless other adequate provisions for service
access are made. When required or provided, alleys shall be at least 20 feet
wide, and shall be paved in accordance with §
154.25. Alleys normally shall not intersect with one another nor change sharply
in alignment. Adequate vehicular turnaround space shall be provided at the
terminus of any dead-end alley.
   (G)   Intersections.
      (1)   Only two streets. Not more than two streets shall intersect at any
one point.
      (2)   Right angles. Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as
nearly as possible at right angles; in no case shall two streets intersect at
an angle of less than 75 degrees. An oblique street shall be curved approaching
an intersection and shall be approximately at right angles with said
intersection for at least 100 feet therefrom.
      (3)   Proper alignment. Proposed new intersections along one side of an
existing street shall, wherever practicable, coincide with any existing
intersections on the opposite side of such street. Street jogs with centerline
offsets of less than 150 feet shall not be permitted, except where the
intersected street has divided lanes without median breaks at either
intersection. Intersections involving collector or arterial streets shall be at
least 800 feet apart.
      (4)   Curb radii. To permit safe vehicular movement at corners, the
minimum curb radius at the intersection of two streets shall be 20 feet, and
the minimum radius at the back of the curb shall be 32 feet.
      (5)   Flat grade. Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade
wherever practical. In hilly terrain, an area having not greater than a 2%
slope for a distance of 60 feet from the nearest right-of-way line of the
intersecting street shall be provided at the approach to an intersection.
      (6)   Maximum cross slope. The cross slope of all streets, including
intersections, shall not exceed 3%.
      (7)   Adequate sightlines. Where any street intersection will involve
earth banks or existing vegetation, the developer shall cut such ground and/or
vegetation (including trees) in connection with the grading of the public
right-of-way to the extent necessary to provide an adequate sight distance.
   (H)   Reverse curves. A tangent at least 100 feet long shall be introduced
between reverse curves on local collector streets.
   (I)   Improvements to existing streets. Whenever any subdivision abuts an
existing street that is narrower than the standards indicated in the table of
street design specifications, the subdivider shall dedicate sufficient right-
of-way on the side abutting the subdivision to permit compliance with those
standards. The developer shall improve said street to the standards imposed at
§
154.25 and pay one-half the cost of said improvements.
   (J)   When excess right-of-way required. Right-of-way width in excess of the
standards set forth in division (A) above shall be required where:
      (1)   Due to topography, additional width is necessary to provide
adequate earth slopes; or
      (2)   Due to the location of railroad tracks, additional width is needed
to construct overpasses, underpasses, and approaches thereto.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-5) (Ord. 731, passed 7-1-2013) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.25 STREET IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS.
   All new streets shall be graded, curbed, and surfaced in accordance with the
standards of the State Department of Transportation and the following
provisions.
   (A)   Curb and gutter. All streets shall be bounded by integral concrete
curb and gutter in conformity with the specifications set out above; provided,
that this requirement may be waived in the case of marginal access streets with
adequate shoulders.
   (B)   Pavement. All streets and alleys shall be paved as indicated below;
provided, that equivalents to the following standards may be approved by the
Municipal Engineer depending on engineering and traffic volume considerations:
      (1)   Alleys, marginal access, local, and local collector:
         (a)   Six inches of concrete; or
         (b)   Two inches of Class “I” Type “B” mix on eight inches of
compacted stone or on six inches of stabilized base.
      (2)   Collector (residential):
         (a)   Six inches of concrete; or
         (b)   Six inches of BAM overlaid with two inches of Class “I” Type “C”
mix.
      (3)   Collectors (nonresidential) and arterials:
         (a)   Eight inches of reinforced concrete; or
         (b)   Asphaltic concrete construction meeting Department of
Transportation specifications.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-6) (Ord. 731, passed 7-1-2013) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.26 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Block width. Blocks shall be sufficiently wide to accommodate two
tiers of lots having the minimum depth required by the zoning district
regulations; provided, that this requirement may be waived in blocks adjacent
to local collector or collector streets, railroads, or watercourses.
   (B)   Block length. No block shall be longer than 1,400 feet nor shorter
than 500 feet. Wherever practicable, blocks along collector streets shall not
be less than 1,000 feet in length.
   (C)   Crosswalks. Crosswalks, not less than ten feet wide, may be required
through the center of blocks more than 1,000 feet long where necessary to
provide circulation or access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers,
transportation, or other community facilities.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-7) (Ord. 731, passed 7-1-2013) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.27 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Requirement. Sidewalks shall be required:
      (1)   On at least one side of the street, when residential density is
between two and four dwelling units per net acre;
      (2)   On both sides of the street, when residential density is four or
more dwelling units per net acre; and
      (3)   Along collector streets, near schools, and in shopping areas and
similar public places.
   (B)   Waiver. These requirements shall not be waived unless the planning
committee advises the Board of Trustees that, in the area in question,
sidewalks are not needed to ensure public safety, and/or that topographical
conditions make the installation of sidewalks impractical.
   (C)   Sidewalk construction standards.
      (1)   The street-side edge of every sidewalk shall either abut the curb
or be located at least six feet from the curb to allow sufficient space for
tree planting.
      (2)   Residential sidewalks shall be at least four feet wide.
Nonresidential sidewalks shall be at least five feet wide.
      (3)   All sidewalks shall be constructed of concrete at least four inches
thick, except that across driveways, the thickness shall be increased to six
inches and/or number six reinforcing mesh shall be used.
      (4)   No sidewalk shall be constructed at a grade steeper than 10%.
      (5)   Curbs shall be cut and sidewalks shall be ramped at all
intersections so as to enhance the mobility of handicapped individuals.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-8) (Ord. 731, passed 7-1-2013) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.28 STREETLIGHTS.
   (A)   Requirement. Streetlights shall be provided at each intersection of
streets (or alleys) within a subdivision and at each cul-de-sac, but in no
event shall there be less than one streetlight per 400 feet (or portion
thereof) of street frontage between intersections, or between a street
intersection and the terminus of a dead-end street. Additionally, in multi-
family dwelling subdivisions, lighting shall be provided within parking areas
at a minimum rate of one light per 25 parking spaces or any fraction thereof.
   (B)   Streetlight system standards.
      (1)   The design and installation of the streetlight system in every
subdivision shall be reviewed by the Village Engineer, the appropriate electric
utility company, and by the administrator.
      (2)   The lighting intensity of each streetlight shall be in compliance
with the current electrical energy saving standards. Each streetlight standard
(post) shall be at least 16 feet high.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-9) (Ord. 731, passed 7-1-2013) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.29 STREET NAME SIGNS.
   Street name signs of the size, height, and type approved by the Village
Engineer shall be placed by the developer at all intersections within or
abutting any subdivision. Street names shall be sufficiently different in sound
and spelling from other street names in the village so as to avoid confusion. A
street which is planned as a continuation of an existing street shall bear the
same name.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-10) (Ord. 731, passed 7-1-2013) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.30 UTILITIES.
   (A)   Underground placement. All utility facilities, including gas, electric
power, telephone, and CATV cables, shall be located underground throughout the
subdivision. Underground service connections to the property line of each
platted lot shall be installed at the subdivider’s expense; provided that, on
the recommendation of the planning committee, the requirement for service
connections to each lot may be waived in the case of adjoining lots to be
retained in single ownership.
   (B)   Utility easements. Easements at least seven and one-half feet wide
shall be provided for public and private utilities. Said easements shall be
centered on rear lot lines except where they must be located along side lot
lines due to topographical or other conditions.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-11) (Ord. 731, passed 7-1-2013) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.31 WATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   An adequate supply of potable water shall be provided to every
platted lot in accordance with the State Department of Public Health
regulations.
      (2)   If the public water system is reasonably accessible, each lot shall
be properly connected thereto at the property line.
      (3)   All water distribution lines shall be at least six inches in
diameter.
      (4)   In the event the subdivider installs water lines and appurtenances
thereto in a newly platted subdivision, the village shall not charge the
subdivider for tap-on or service fees for any connection from the water line to
any residential or other structure.
   (B)   Fire hydrants. Fire hydrants of the type approved by the local Public
Works Manager shall be installed in every subdivision as part of the water
distribution system. The distance from any lot to a hydrant, measured along the
centerline of the public right-of-way, shall not be greater than 500 feet.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-12) (Ord. 731, passed 7-1-2013) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.32 SANITARY SEWERS.
   (A)   Compliance with state regulations. All proposed sanitary sewer
facilities shall comply with the regulations of the State Department of Public
Health and the State Environmental Protection Agency, and must be approved by
the Municipal Engineer.
   (B)   Availability of public system. Whenever the public sanitary sewerage
system is reasonably accessible, the developer shall extend said system
throughout the subdivision, and shall provide each lot with a connection
thereto.
   (C)   Approved plans for public system.
      (1)   In areas where the public sanitary sewerage system is not
reasonably accessible but where plans for the installation of said system have
been approved by the State Environmental Protection Agency, the developer shall
provide sanitary sewers in accordance with such plans and temporarily cap them.
      (2)   If connection to a public sanitary sewerage system is not
economically feasible or planned, as determined by the village, then individual
sewage disposal systems which meet the sanitary sewage disposal requirements of
the village and the county in which the property is located may be utilized.
      (3)   Where individual disposal facilities are permitted, the
administrator may require that the minimum lot size be increased as necessary
above usual zoning district requirements.
      (4)   In the event the subdivider installs sewer lines and appurtenances
thereto in a newly platted subdivision, the village shall not charge the
subdivider for tap-on or service fees for any connection from the same sewer
line to any residence or other structure.
   (D)   Sanitary sewer easements. Sanitary sewer easements shall be provided
along the rear lot lines of every platted lot. The precise location and minimum
widths of said easements shall be determined by the Municipal Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-13) (Ord. 731, passed 7-1-2013) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.33 DRAINAGE AND STORM SEWERS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   The planning committee shall not recommend the approval of any plat
unless, after consultation with the Municipal Engineer, they determine that the
proposed provisions for storm water drainage are adequate and proper NPDES
permits are obtained.
      (2)   Drainage improvements in the subdivision shall be coordinated with
existing and planned drainage improvements elsewhere so as to form an
integrated municipal system.
      (3)   The storm water drainage system shall be separate and independent
of the sanitary sewer system.
   (B)   Catch basins. Catch basins, if required, shall be constructed pursuant
to the specifications established by the Municipal Engineer, so that surface
water is not carried across or around any intersection, nor for a distance of
more than 600 feet in the gutter.
   (C)   Accommodation of upstream drainage areas. A culvert or other drainage
facility large enough to accommodate potential runoff from the entire drainage
area upstream from the proposed subdivision shall be provided in accordance
with the Municipal Engineer’s specifications. Potential runoff shall be
determined on the basis of the maximum development of the upstream area that is
permitted under the zoning district regulations.
   (D)   Effect on downstream areas. The Municipal Engineer shall also consider
the effect of any proposed subdivision on downstream areas. Where it is
anticipated that the additional runoff incident to development of the
subdivision will overload an existing downstream drainage facility, the Board
of Trustees shall require the developer to install additional drainage
improvements to alleviate the overload problem.
   (E)   Partial compensation for oversize improvements. The Board of Trustees,
with the assistance of the Municipal Attorney, shall make satisfactory
arrangements to compensate the developer for any portion of the cost of
oversize drainage improvements that is not attributable solely to the
subdivision in question.
   (F)   Area subject to flooding. Whenever a plat is submitted for an area
that is subject to flooding, the Board of Trustees may require appropriate
protective measures, including the filling of the flood-prone area to a level
above the regulatory flood elevation.
   (G)   Drainage easements. Adequate easements for storm water drainage shall
be established along any natural drainage channel and in any other locations
where necessary to provide satisfactory disposal of storm water from streets,
alleys, and all other portions of the subdivision. The precise location and
minimum widths of said easements shall be determined by the Municipal Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-14) (Ord. 731, passed 7-1-2013) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.34 EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL.
   In the development of any subdivision, the following erosion and
sedimentation control regulations shall be observed.
   (A)   Natural limitations. The development shall conform to the natural
limitations presented by topography and soil so as to create the least
potential for soil erosion.
   (B)   Large trees. Large trees (those having a diameter of two inches or
more when measured 12 inches above the ground) shall be retained and protected
to the maximum extent consistent with development of the site.
   (C)   Development in small increments. Land shall be developed in the
smallest increments of workable size so that adequate erosion and sediment
controls can be provided and coordinated with ongoing construction work. When
soil is exposed, the exposure shall be for the shortest feasible period of
time.
   (D)   Temporary vegetation. Temporary vegetation or, where appropriate,
mulching or other nonviable cover shall be used to protect areas exposed during
development.
   (E)   Removal of sediment. Adequate provisions shall be made to effectively
accommodate the increased runoff caused by changed soil and surface conditions
both during and after development. Appropriate devices, such as sediment
basins, debris basins, desilting basins, or silt traps, shall be installed and
maintained to remove sediment from surface waters leaving the development.
   (F)   Requirements for occupancy. No development shall be occupied until:
      (1)   Grading has been completed in accordance with the approved final
plat and plans; and
      (2)   Soil shall have been spread over each residential lot that is equal
in quality to the soil that was on-site prior to development.
(Prior Code, § 11-3-15) (Ord. 731, passed 7-1-2013) Penalty, see §
154.99
PLATS AND PLANS
§ 154.45 PRELIMINARY PLATS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Except as specifically provided otherwise below, every person who
proposes to subdivide any land located within the subdivision jurisdiction of
the village shall file four copies of the preliminary plat of said subdivision
with the administrator.
      (2)   Said developer shall also file one copy of the preliminary plan and
supporting data with the appropriate soil and water conservation district. Said
district shall have not more than 30 days to submit any comments it might wish
to make to the planning committee.
      (3)   Whenever a large tract is to be developed in stages and only a
portion of that tract is to be submitted for final plat approval, nonetheless,
a preliminary plan of the entire tract shall be submitted.
      (4)   All preliminary plats shall be reviewed and acted upon in
accordance with state statutes and the provisions of the divisions below.
   (B)   Exception. The provision of this section shall not apply to:
      (1)   “Minor subdivision,” as defined in §
154.06; or
      (2)   Land that is specifically exempted from the State Plat Act, being
765 ILCS 205, as now or hereafter amended.
   (C)   Information required. Every preliminary plat shall be prepared by a
land surveyor registered in the state at any scale necessary for clarity,
provided the resultant drawing does not exceed 36 inches square. Said
preliminary plat, together with the supporting data, shall provide all of the
following information:
      (1)   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider (if not the owner),
and registered land surveyor;
      (2)   Proposed name of the subdivision;
      (3)   Zoning district classification of the tract to be subdivided;
      (4)   North arrow, graphic scale, and date of map;
      (5)   Dimensions of the tract, and its gross area;
      (6)   Topography of the tract to be subdivided as indicated by two-foot
contour data for land having slopes of 0% to 4%, five-foot contour data for
land having slopes between 4% to 12%, and ten-foot contour data for land having
slopes of 12% or more;
      (7)   Locations of such features as bodies of water, ponding areas,
natural drainageways, railroads, cemeteries, bridges, parks, schools, and the
like;
      (8)   Locations and rights-of-way widths of all existing and proposed
streets and alleys;
      (9)   Locations, widths, and purposes of all existing and proposed
easements;
      (10)   Description of all proposed deed restrictions and covenants;
      (11)   Location and size of existing and proposed sanitary and storm
sewers;
      (12)   Locations, types, and approximate sizes of all other existing and
proposed utilities;
      (13)   Locations, dimensions, and areas of all parcels to be reserved or
dedicated for schools, parks/playgrounds, and other public purposes; and
      (14)   Locations, dimensions, and areas of all proposed or existing lots
within the subdivision.
   (D)   Planning committee action. The planning committee shall either approve
or disapprove the application for preliminary plat approval within 90 days from
the date of said application or the filing of the last item of required
supporting data, whichever date is later, unless the planning committee and the
subdivider mutually agree to extend the time limit. If the planning committee
disapproves the preliminary plat, said committee shall furnish to the
applicant, within the 90-day period, a written statement specifying the aspects
in which the proposed plat fails to conform to this title and/or the official
map. If the planning committee approves the preliminary plat, it shall promptly
so inform the Board of Trustees.
   (E)   Action by Board of Trustees. If the planning committee has approved a
preliminary plat, the Board of Trustees, by resolution, shall either accept or
reject said plat within 30 days after the Board’s next regularly scheduled
meeting following the planning committee’s action. If the Board of Trustees
rejects the preliminary plat, its resolution shall specify the aspects in which
the plat fails to comply with this chapter and/or the official map. The Village
Clerk shall attach a certified copy of the Board’s resolution of approval or
disapproval to the preliminary plat. One copy of the resolution and plat shall
be retained by the Village Clerk, one copy shall be filed with the
administrator, and one copy shall be given to the subdivider. Board approval
shall not qualify a preliminary plat for recording.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-1) (Ord. 731, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 154.46 IMPROVEMENT PLANS.
   (A)   General requirements. After the Board of Trustees has approved the
preliminary plat, but prior to submission of the final plat, the subdivider
shall furnish four copies of the plans and specifications for all improvements
to be installed within or in conjunction with the proposed subdivision to the
Village Clerk for review by the Municipal Engineer. These plans and
specifications shall be signed and sealed by the registered professional
engineer responsible for their preparation. Until the Municipal Engineer
certifies in writing that the proposed improvements conform to generally
accepted engineering practices and to the standards imposed in this chapter:
      (1)   The administrator shall not issue any building permit to allow
construction of said improvements; and
      (2)   The Board of Trustees shall not act upon the application for final
plat approval.
   (B)   Information required. Improvement plans shall consist of black or blue
line prints not larger than 36 inches square. These plans and the related
specifications shall provide all of the following information:
      (1)   Topography of the tract, both before and after development at the
same scale as required in the preliminary plat;
      (2)   Existing and proposed elevations along the centerlines of all
streets;
      (3)   Radii of all curves and lengths of tangents on all streets;
      (4)   Locations and typical cross-section of street pavements, including
curbs/gutters and catch basins;
      (5)   Locations and typical cross-section of sidewalks and driveway
aprons;
      (6)   Locations, sizes, and invert elevations of all existing and
proposed sanitary sewers, storm sewers, and fire hydrants, showing connections
to any existing or proposed utility systems;
      (7)   Locations and sizes of all water, gas, electric, and other
utilities;
      (8)   Locations of street lighting standards and street signs;
      (9)   All proposed measures to control erosion and sedimentation;
      (10)   High water elevations of all lakes/streams adjoining or within the
tract; and
      (11)   Such other information as the Municipal Engineer may reasonably
require to perform his or her duties under this section.
   (C)   Inspections required. The subdivider/developer shall notify the
administrator and the Municipal Engineer of both the start and completion of
construction of approved improvements.
      (1)   (a)   The Municipal Engineer shall inspect said improvements while
they are under construction.
         (b)   If he or she determines that they are being built in violation
of this chapter, he or she shall promptly notify the administrator who, in
turn, shall issue a stop order.
      (2)   The Municipal Engineer shall also inspect approved improvements
upon their completion. The village shall not accept any completed improvement
until the Municipal Engineer has certified that it complies with this chapter.
   (D)   Filing as-built records. Upon the completion of approved improvements,
the subdivider/developer shall file with the administrator a set of
reproducible cloth or polyester base film positives showing the as built
details and any deviations from the approved plans.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-2) (Ord. 731, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 154.47 ASSURANCE FOR COMPLETION OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   General requirements. The Board of Trustees shall not approve any
final plat of subdivision (and, hence, said final plat shall not be entitled to
recording) until:
      (1)   All improvements required in the approved improvements plan have
been completed by the subdivider/developer at his or her expense, inspected by
the Municipal Engineer, and dedicated to the village or other appropriate
entity; or
      (2)   In accordance with the divisions below, the subdivider/developer
has provided the village with legal assurance to guarantee the satisfactory
completion and dedication of all required improvements.
   (B)   Forms of assurance. At the option of the Board of Trustees, the
required legal assurance may be either a performance bond or an escrow deposit.
Every performance bond shall be reviewed by the Municipal Attorney, and posted
with the Municipal Clerk. Any funds to be held in escrow shall be deposited in
a special account to be titled in the name of the village and the subdivider/
developer.
   (C)   Amount of bond or deposit. The amount of the performance bond or
escrow deposit shall be equal to 125% of the Municipal Engineer’s estimate of
the costs of constructing the uncompleted portion of the required improvements
plus all required inspection fees. Any escrow deposit may be in the form of:
      (1)   Cash;
      (2)   An irrevocable letter of credit or commitment from a lending
institution guaranteeing to the village the availability of the escrow funds
from time to time upon demand; or
      (3)   Certificates of deposit, treasury bills, or other readily
negotiable instruments approved by the Municipal Attorney, and made payable to
the village.
   (D)   Eligible sureties. No person shall be eligible to act as surety unless
he or she has been approved by the Municipal Attorney. The Attorney shall
conduct or cause to be conducted spot audits of all sureties. Any surety who
fails to perform shall be ineligible for two years thereafter to act as surety
for any subdivision improvement within the village jurisdiction.
   (E)   Terms of assurance, extension. The initial term of any performance
bond or escrow agreement shall not exceed two years. If all the required
improvements have not been completed by the end of the two-year period, the
administrator, with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees, may either
extend said bond/escrow agreement for one year only, or may proceed as per
division (G) below.
   (F)   Release of bond/escrow deposit.
      (1)   The Municipal Clerk/Mayor of the Board may release up to 90% of the
amount of the performance bond/escrow deposit upon receipt of written
authorization from the Municipal Engineer. The amount which the Municipal
Engineer authorizes to be released shall be equal to the value of improvements
actually completed in accordance with approved plans.
      (2)   The balance of the amount of the performance bond/escrow deposit
shall not be released until:
         (a)   The Municipal Engineer has certified to the administrator in
writing that all required improvements have been satisfactorily completed; and
         (b)   Said improvements have been accepted by and dedicated to the
village or other appropriate entity.
   (G)   Failure to complete improvements. If all the required improvements
have not been completed by the end of the two-year period (or three-year
period, in the case of an extension), the administrator, with the assistance of
the Municipal Attorney, may:
      (1)   Require the surety to perform on the bond, and to pay to the
village an amount equal to the cost of completing the required improvements (as
estimated by the Municipal Engineer) or the amount of the bond not theretofore
released, whichever is less;
      (2)   Order the Village Clerk to retain all escrowed funds needed to
complete the required improvements and to return the balance (if any) of such
funds to the subdivider/developer; or
      (3)   Require the subdivider/developer to submit a new performance bond/
escrow deposit in an amount sufficient to cover any increase in the cost of
constructing the required improvements.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-3) (Ord. 731, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 154.48 FINAL PLATS.
   The Macoupin or Jersey County Recorder of Deeds shall not record any final
plat of a subdivision located within the subdivision jurisdiction of this
municipality until said final plat has been approved by the Board of Trustees.
The Board of Trustees shall not approve any final plat unless the Board
determines that said final plat is in compliance with all pertinent
requirements of this chapter, including those set forth below.
   (A)   Filing, time limits. The subdivider of every subdivision (whether
major or minor, but excluding land specifically exempted from the State Plat
Act, being 765 ILCS 205, as now or hereafter amended) who desires final plat
approval shall file four copies of the final plat and supporting data with the
administrator not later than one year after preliminary plat approval has been
granted. However, with the consent of the Board of Trustees, the subdivider may
delay application for final approval of part(s) of the tract shown on the
preliminary plat for successive one-year periods.
   (B)   Information required. 
      (1)   Every final plat shall be prepared by a registered land surveyor on
new linen tracing cloth or polyester base film with waterproof black ink at a
scale not greater than one inch equals 100 feet, provided that the resultant
drawing shall not exceed 36 inches square.
      (2)   The final plat and supporting data shall portray/provide all of the
following information:
         (a)   North arrow, graphic scale, and date;
         (b)   Name of subdivider;
         (c)   Accurate metes and bounds or other adequate legal description of
the tract;
         (d)   Accurate boundary lines, with dimensions and bearings or angles
which provide a survey of the tract, closing with an error of closure of not
more than one foot in 10,000 feet;
         (e)   Reference to recorded plats of adjoining platted land by record
name, plat book, and page number;
         (f)   Accurate locations of all existing streets intersecting the
boundaries of the subdivision;
         (g)   Right-of-way lines of all streets, other rights-of-way,
easements, and lot lines with accurate dimensions, angles, or bearings and
curve data, including radii, arcs, or chords, points of tangency, and central
angles;
         (h)   Name and right-of-way width of every proposed street;
         (i)   Purpose of any existing or proposed easement;
         (j)   Number of each lot, lot dimensions, and (in a separate list) lot
areas;
         (k)   Purpose(s) for which sites, other than private lots, are
reserved;
         (l)   Building or setback lines with accurate dimensions; and
         (m)   Restrictions of all types which will run with the land and
become covenants in the deeds or lots.
   (C)   Certificates required.
      (1)   Owner.
 
OWNER’S CERTIFICATE
   We,                        , the Owners of                                                     (description), have caused
the said tract to be surveyed and subdivided in the manner shown, and said subdivision is to be hereinafter known as
                     . All rights-of-way and easements shown hereon are hereby dedicated to the use of the public forever
including the release and waiver of the right of homestead under the Homestead Exemption laws of the State of Illinois.
Dated this      day of        ,
      .
                                                                 (Seal)
                                                                 (Seal)
 
      (2)   Notary public.
 
NOTARY PUBLIC’S CERTIFICATE
State of Illinois      )
      ) ss
             County      )
   I,                          , a Notary Public in and for the County aforesaid, do hereby certify that
                                (Owners) are personally known to me to be the same persons whose names are
subscribed to the foregoing instrument, and that they appeared before me this day in person and acknowledged
that they signed and sealed the same as their free and voluntary act for the uses and purposes therein set
forth, including the release of waiver of the right of homestead.
Given under my hand and Notarial Seal this        day of         ,       .
 
                                      
                        Notary Public
 
      (3)   Surveyor.
 
SURVEYOR’S CERTIFICATE
   I,                     , a registered Illinois Land Surveyor, do hereby certify that this plat is
a correct representation of a survey made under my direct supervision at the request of
                       for the purpose of subdividing the tract into lots as shown.
                                      
 Illinois Land Surveyor
                                      
 Registration Number
                                      
 Date
 
      (4)   County Clerk.
 
COUNTY CLERK’S CERTIFICATE
   I,                       County Clerk of                County, Illinois, do hereby certify that I find no unpaid
or forfeited taxes against any of the real estate included within this plat.
                                    
County Clerk
                                    
Date
 
      (5)   Board of Trustees.
 
CERTIFICATE OF BOARD OF TRUSTEES
   I,                   , Mayor of the Village of Brighton, do hereby certify that the plat shown
hereon was duly presented to the Board of Trustees and approved at a meeting of same held on
            (date).
                               
 Mayor, Board of Trustees
 Attest:
                               
 Village Clerk
 
      (6)   Flood hazard.
 
FLOOD HAZARD CERTIFICATE
   We, the undersigned, do hereby certify that no part of this plat to be recorded is situated
within five hundred (500) feet of any surface drain or watercourse serving a tributary area of
six hundred forty (640) acres or more. If this plat is within five hundred (500) feet of any
surface drain or watercourse, we hereby certify that this plat has been reviewed by the Illinois
Department of Transportation Division of Water Resources and their report is on file with the
                        County Recorder of Deeds.
 By:                               
 Owner(s)
 By:                               
 Illinois Land Surveyor
                                     
 Registration Number
                                     
 Date
 
   (D)   Administrative review, advisory report. Within 30 days from the date
of application for final plat approval, the Municipal Engineer and the
administrator shall review said final plat (and supporting data), and shall
jointly advise the Board of Trustees in writing whether said plat substantially
conforms to the approved preliminary plat. A copy of the advisory report shall
be forwarded to the planning committee.
   (E)   Action by Board of Trustees.
      (1)   The Board of Trustees shall either accept or reject the application
for final plat approval by resolution within 60 days from the date of said
application or the filing of the last item of required supporting data,
whichever date is later, unless the Board and subdivider mutually agree to
extend this time limit. The Board of Trustees shall not approve any final plat
unless:
         (a)   The final plat substantially conforms to the approved
preliminary plat;
         (b)   The final plat manifests substantial compliance with the design
and improvement standards of this chapter and the official map;
         (c)   To the Board’s knowledge and belief, the final plat complies
with all pertinent requirements of state law; and
         (d)   Either of the following has been met:
            1.   All required improvements have been completed, inspected,
accepted, and dedicated; or
            2.   The subdivider/developer has posted a performance bond or
deposited funds in escrow to guarantee the satisfactory completion and
dedication of all required improvements.
      (2)   If the Board of Trustees disapproves the final plat, its resolution
shall specify the aspects in which the plat fails to meet the above conditions
for approval.
      (3)   The Village Clerk shall attach a certified copy of the Board’s
resolution of acceptance or rejection to the final plat. One copy of the
resolution and plat shall be retained by the Clerk, one copy shall be filed
with the administrator, and one copy shall be given to the subdivider.
   (F)   Changes in approved final plats. Once a final plat is approved by the
Board of Trustees, it shall not thereafter be modified; provided, however, that
minor changes may be made upon written application to the administrator. Major
changes require the filing of a new final plat and complete re-review.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-4) (Ord. 731, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 154.49 MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Requirement. The subdivider/developer shall maintain all the
improvements in the subdivision until they have been accepted by and dedicated
to the village or other appropriate entity.
   (B)   Maintenance bond.
      (1)   (a)   Prior to dedication, the subdivider/developer shall post a
maintenance bond with the Village Clerk in the form approved by the Municipal
Attorney. Said bond shall be in the amount of 125% of that amount determined by
the Municipal Engineer to be sufficient to guarantee the satisfactory condition
of the required improvements for a period of two years from the date of their
acceptance and dedication.
         (b)   If at any time during the two-year period the improvements are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired/replaced at the expense of the
subdivider/developer.
      (2)   If the subdivider/developer fails or refuses to pay such costs
within 90 days after demand is made upon him or her by the administrator, the
village shall use the maintenance bond to make the necessary repairs/
replacement. If the cost of repairs/replacement exceeds the bond amount, the
subdivider/developer shall be liable for the excess. At the end of the two-year
period, the maintenance bond shall be released.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-5) (Ord. 731, passed 7-1-2013) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.50 VACATION OF PLATS.
   (A)   In accordance with state law, any plat or part thereof may be vacated
by the owner of the tract, at any time before the sale of any lot therein, by a
written vacation instrument to which a copy of the plat is attached.
   (B)   If there are public service facilities in any street, other public
way, or easement shown on said plat, the instrument shall reserve to the
village or other public entity or public utility owning such facilities the
property, rights-of-way, and easements necessary for continuing public service
by means of those facilities and for maintaining or reconstructing the same.
   (C)   The vacation instrument shall be approved by the Board of Trustees in
the same manner as plats of subdivision, and shall also be approved by the
Macoupin or Jersey County Superintendent of Highways, the Highway Commissioner
of the appropriate township, the District Engineer of the State Department of
Public Works and Buildings, and the public utilities involved. In the case of
platted tracts wherein any lots have been sold, the written vacation instrument
must also be signed by all the owners of lots in said tract.
(Prior Code, § 11-4-6) (Ord. 731, passed 7-1-2013)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.65 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER, DUTIES.
   The Administrator, as defined in §
154.06, is hereby authorized and directed to administer and enforce the
provisions of this chapter. This broad responsibility encompasses, but is not
limited to, the following specific duties:
   (A)   To review and forward preliminary plats to the planning committee;
   (B)   To transmit improvement plans to the Municipal Engineer for his or her
review;
   (C)   To review and forward final plats to the Board of Trustees;
   (D)   To issue stop orders as necessary when the Municipal Engineer
determines that approved improvements are being constructed in violation of
this chapter;
   (E)   To pursue actions authorized by §
154.47(G) when a developer fails to complete required improvements;
   (F)   To evaluate and pass upon proposed changes in approved final plats;
   (G)   To review and forward applications for subdivision variances to the
planning committee;
   (H)   To periodically review the provisions of this chapter to determine
whether revisions are needed, and to make recommendations on such matters to
the planning committee as necessary;
   (I)   To maintain up-to-date records of matters pertaining to this chapter,
including, but not limited to, preliminary plats, as-built records of completed
improvements, final plats, variances, and amendments; and
   (J)   To provide information to subdividers/developers and to the general
public on matters related to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-1) (Ord. 731, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 154.66 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Proposing amendments. Amendments to this chapter may be proposed by
the administrator, any member of the Board of Trustees, any planning committee
member, or any party in interest. Every amendment proposal shall be filed on a
prescribed form in the administrator’s office. The administrator shall promptly
transmit each proposal, together with any comments or recommendations he or she
may wish to make, to the planning committee for a public hearing.
   (B)   Public hearing, notice.
      (1)   The planning committee shall hold a public hearing on every
amendment proposal within a reasonable time after said proposal is submitted to
it. At the hearing, any interested party may appear and testify, either in
person or by duly authorized agent or attorney.
      (2)   Notice indicating the time, date, and place of the hearing, and the
nature of the proposed amendment, shall be given not more than 30 nor less than
15 days before the hearing by publication in a newspaper of general circulation
within the village.
   (C)   Advisory report, action by Board of Trustees.
      (1)   Within a reasonable time after the public hearing, the planning
committee shall submit an advisory report to the Board of Trustees. The Board
of Trustees shall act on the proposed amendment at its next regularly scheduled
meeting following submission of the planning committee’s report.
      (2)   Without another public hearing, the Board of Trustees may either
approve or reject the proposed amendment or may refer it back to the planning
committee for further consideration.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-2) (Ord. 731, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 154.67 SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   All fees indicated in tabular form below shall be paid to the Village Clerk.
Said fees are intended to defray the administrative costs connected with the
processing/conducting of the listed item; said fees do not constitute a tax or
other revenue-raising device.
 
Procedure                                  Fee
Filing proposal                            $150
Filing improvement plans                   $150
Filing plat                                $150
Filing variance request                    $150
Reimbursement of Municipal Engineer’s feeAs actually incurred
 
(Prior Code, § 11-5-3) (Ord. 731, passed 7-1-2013)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who is convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be
guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty as provided in
§
10.99(A). Each day that a violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this section shall prevent the village from
taking any other lawful action that may be necessary to secure compliance with
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11-5-4) (Ord. 731, passed 7-1-2013)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Purpose and scope
   
155.002   Jurisdiction
   
155.003   Interpretation
   
155.004   Disclaimer of liability
   
155.005   Definitions
General Zoning Regulations
   
155.020   Establishment of districts
   
155.021   Zoning map and district boundaries
   
155.022   General prohibition
   
155.023   Unlisted uses prohibited
   
155.024   Temporary and portable structures or uses
   
155.025   One building and all yards on one lot
   
155.026   Access required
   
155.027   Front setbacks
   
155.028   Intrusions into yards
   
155.029   Exceptions to height limits
   
155.030   Accessory uses
   
155.031   Schedules of area and bulk regulations
   
155.032   Schedule of uses
Supplementary Zoning Regulations
   
155.045   Applicability of subchapter
   
155.046   Camping trailers
   
155.047   Fences and walls
   
155.048   Filling stations
   
155.049   Home occupations
   
155.050   Nursing homes
   
155.051   Junkyards
   
155.052   Schools
   
155.053   Swimming pools; fences
   
155.054   Essential services
   
155.055   Mobile homes
   
155.056   Public buildings
   
155.057   Kennels
   
155.058   Lighting control
   
155.059   Privacy screening
   
155.060   Dumpster; trash disposal
   
155.061   Billboards
Off-Street Parking and Loading
   
155.075   Applicability of subchapter
   
155.076   Parking design and maintenance standards
   
155.077   Location of parking
   
155.078   Design and location of off-street loading facilities
   
155.079   Parking spaces required
Nonconformities
   
155.090   Purpose
   
155.091   Nonconforming lots
   
155.092   Nonconforming structures
   
155.093   Nonconforming uses occupying structures
   
155.094   Nonconforming use of land
   
155.095   Open land, nonconforming use
   
155.096   Nonconformities under permit authority
Administration and Enforcement
   
155.110   Code Official
   
155.111   Building permits
   
155.112   Procedures upon violation
   
155.113   Emergency measures
   
155.114   Complaints
   
155.115   Violations
   
155.116   Review under Administrative Review Law
Special Uses and Amendments
   
155.130   Board of Appeals
   
155.131   Special use permits
   
155.132   Amendments
Appeals, Variances, and Filing Fees
   
155.145   Appeals
   
155.146   Lot size/bulk variances
   
155.147   Filing fees
 
   
155.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Application for zoning/building permit
   
Appendix B:   Application for sign permit
   
Appendix C:   Special use permit
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Objectives. In accordance with state law, this chapter regulates
structures and land uses in order to preserve, protect, and promote the public
health, safety, and welfare. More specifically, this chapter is intended to
assist in achieving the following objectives:
      (1)   To encourage the development of buildings and uses on appropriate
sites in order to maximize community-wide social and economic benefits while
accommodating the particular needs of all residents;
      (2)   To discourage development of buildings and uses on sites not suited
for development;
      (3)   To protect the character and stability of sound existing
residential, commercial, and industrial areas;
      (4)   To conserve and increase the value of taxable property throughout
this municipality;
      (5)   To ensure the provision of adequate light, air, and privacy to the
occupants of all buildings;
      (6)   To provide adequate parking and access for all buildings and lots;
      (7)   To reduce congestion on the public streets and highways and to
regulate and control population density;
      (8)   To protect property from damage caused by fire, or by flooding and
poorly controlled storm water runoff;
      (9)   To guide the provision of water, sewer, storm water, and other
utilities and municipal services;
      (10)   To reduce the initial costs and future maintenance expenses of
public and private improvements and services through thoughtful planning;
      (11)   To gradually eliminate existing structures and uses that impede
achievement of the above objectives; and
      (12)   To regulate the building height, size, shape, and setbacks.
   (B)   Scope. In order to achieve the objectives enumerated in division (A)
above, this chapter:
      (1)   Divides this entire municipality and the one and one-half miles of
surrounding unincorporated territory into districts, and permits in each
district only those structures and uses that are compatible with the character
of such district;
      (2)   Regulates lot size, and the bulk, setbacks, lot coverage, and
manner of use of structures;
      (3)   Imposes supplementary regulations to control certain potentially
troublesome structures and uses;
      (4)   Sets forth standards for off-street parking areas;
      (5)   Restricts nonconforming lots, structures, and uses that adversely
affect the type of development appropriate in each district; and
      (6)   Establishes zoning administrative and enforcement procedures.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-1) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999)
§ 155.002 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall be applicable within the corporate limits of the village
and within all territory located within one and one-half miles of said limits,
provided such territory is not located within the zoning jurisdiction of
another village/city or county.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-2) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999)
§ 155.003 INTERPRETATION.
   Every provision of this chapter shall be construed liberally in favor of
this municipality, and every requirement imposed in this chapter shall be
deemed minimal. Whenever the requirements of this chapter differ from the
requirements of any other lawfully adopted ordinance, regulation, deed
restriction, or covenant, the more stringent requirement shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-3) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999)
§ 155.004 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   Except as may be provided otherwise by statute or ordinance, no
officer, Board member, agent, or employee of this municipality shall render
himself or herself personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons
or property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of
his or her duties under this chapter.
   (B)   Any suit brought against any officer, Board member, agent, or employee
of this municipality, as a result of any act required or permitted in the
discharge of his or her duties under this chapter, shall be defended by the
village until the final determination of the legal proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 10-1-4) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999)
§ 155.005 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Construction of terms. In construing the intended meaning of
terminology used in this chapter, the following rules shall be observed.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to
them in division (B) below unless the context clearly indicates otherwise;
terms not defined in division (B) below shall have their standard English
meanings.
      (2)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders.
      (3)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
      (4)   Words used in the singular number shall include the plural number,
and the plural the singular.
      (5)   The term SHALL is mandatory.
      (6)   The term MAY is discretionary.
      (7)   The term THIS MUNICIPALITY shall mean the Village of Brighton,
Illinois.
      (8)   The words LOTS, PARCEL, TRACT, and SITE shall be synonymous.
      (9)   The phrases USED FOR, ARRANGED FOR, DESIGNED FOR, INTENDED FOR,
MAINTAINED FOR, and OCCUPIED FOR shall be synonymous.
      (10)   All distances shall be measured to the nearest integral foot; six
inches or more shall be deemed one foot.
      (11)   References to sections shall be deemed to include all divisions
within that section; but a reference to a particular division designates only
that division.
      (12)   A general term that follows or is followed by enumerations of
specific terms shall not be limited to the enumerated class unless expressly
limited.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-1)
   (B)   Definitions.
      ABUTTING. As applied to lots, having a common lot line or district line,
or so located in relation to each other that there would be a common lot line
or district line but for the existence of a street, alley, or other public
right-of-way.
      ACCESS WAY. A curb cut, ramp, or other means for providing vehicular
access to an off-street parking or loading area from a street.
      ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A detached subordinate building located on the same
building site with the main building, the use of which is incidental to that of
the main building.
      ACCESSORY USE. Any structure or use that is:
         (a)   Subordinate in size or purpose to the principal use or structure
which it serves;
         (b)   Necessary or contributing to the comfort and convenience of the
occupants of the principal use or structure served; and
         (c)   Located on the same lot as the principal use or structure
served.
      ADJACENT. Lying near, in the vicinity of, next to, or adjoining.
      AGRICULTURE. Any one or any combination of the following: the growing of
farm or truck garden crops, dairying, pasturage, horticulture, floriculture, or
animal/poultry husbandry. The term AGRICULTURE encompasses the farmhouse, and
accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to agricultural
activities.
      ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords a secondary means of vehicular
access to abutting premises that front on a nearby street.
      ALTER. To change the size, shape, or use of a structure.
      ALTERATION. Any structural change in the supporting or load-bearing
members of a building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders.
      AMENDMENT. A change in the provisions of this chapter (including those
portions incorporated by reference) properly effected in accordance with state
law and the procedures set forth herein.
      APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a multi-family structure,
arranged, designed, used, or intended to be used as a single housekeeping unit,
and containing complete kitchen, bath, and toilet facilities, permanently
installed.
      ATTACHED. As applied to buildings, having a common wall and/or a common
roof.
      AUDITORIUM. A room, hall, or building made a part of a church, theater,
school, recreation building, or other building assigned to the gathering of
people as an audience, to hear lectures, plays, and other presentations, as
well as participate in dances, dinners, expositions, bingos, and the like.
      BAR or COCKTAIL LOUNGE. Any premises wherein alcoholic beverages are sold
at retail for consumption on the premises and minors are excluded therefrom by
law. It shall not mean premises wherein such beverages are sold in conjunction
with the sale of food for consumption on the premises and the sale of said
beverages comprises less than 25% of the gross receipts.
      BASEMENT. A story having one-half or more of its height below the average
level of the adjoining ground.
      BED AND BREAKFAST. An operator-occupied residence providing
accommodations for a charge to the public with no more than five guest rooms
for rent, in operation for more than ten nights in a 12-month period. Breakfast
and light snacks/refreshments may be provided to the guests only. BED AND
BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS shall not include motels, hotels, boarding houses, or
food service establishments.
      BLOCK. An area of land entirely bounded by streets, highways, barriers,
or ways (except alleys, pedestrianways, or exterior boundaries of a subdivision
unless the exterior boundary is a street, highway, or way) or bounded by a
combination of streets, public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way,
waterways, or corporate boundary lines.
      BOARDING HOUSE. A building or portion thereof (other than a hotel, motel,
or apartment hotel) containing lodging rooms for three or more persons who are
not members of the keeper’s family, and where lodging and/or meals are provided
by prearrangement and for definite periods.
      BUILDING. Any covered structure intended for the shelter, housing, or
enclosure of persons, animals, or chattels; the term BUILDING shall be
construed to include the term STRUCTURE.
      BUILDING, ENCLOSED. A building covered by a permanent roof and separated
on all sides from adjacent open space or other buildings by fixed exterior
walls or by common walls, with openings only for windows and doors.
      BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the average
elevation of the proposed finish grade at the front wall of the building to the
highest point of the roof.
      BUILDING LINE. The line nearest the front of and across a lot,
delineating the minimum open space required between the front of a structure
and the street right-of-way line.
      BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A nonaccessory building in which the principal use
or the premises is conducted.
      BULK. Any one or any combination of the following:
         (a)   Size or height of structure;
         (b)   Location of exterior walls at all levels in relation to lot
lines, streets, or other structures;
         (c)   Yards or setbacks; and/or
         (d)   Lot coverage.
      CAMPING TRAILER PARK. A lot developed with facilities for accommodating
temporarily occupied camping trailers.
      CAMPING TRAILER/RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A mobile structure designed for
temporary occupancy.
      CHURCH. A building designed or used for regularly scheduled worship
services.
      CLINIC. An establishment where licensed medical practitioners or dentists
practice medicine or dentistry, but where overnight lodging for sick or injured
persons is not provided.
      CLUB/LODGE. A nonprofit association or persons who are bona fide members
organized for some purpose(s) and paying regular dues and whose facilities are
restricted to members and their guests; not including a group organized solely
or primarily to render a service customarily carried on as a commercial
enterprise.
      CODE OFFICIAL. The official appointed by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of the Village Board to administer this chapter, or his or her
representative.
      COMMERCIAL USE/ESTABLISHMENT. Any use or establishment wherein goods and/
or services are purchased or sold, whether to the consuming public (retail) or
to other businesses (wholesale).
      COMMUNITY RESIDENCE. A group home or specialized residential care home
serving unrelated persons with handicaps which is licensed, certified, or
accredited by appropriate local, state, or national bodies. COMMUNITY RESIDENCE
does not include a residence which serves persons as an alternative to
incarceration for a criminal offense, or persons whose primary reason for
placement is substance or alcohol abuse or for treatment of communicable
diseases.
      COMMUNITY RESIDENCE, LARGE. A community residence serving nine to 15
persons with handicaps.
      COMMUNITY RESIDENCE, SMALL. A community residence serving eight or fewer
persons with handicaps in a family-like atmosphere.
      CONFORM. In compliance with the applicable provisions of this chapter.
      CONVENIENCE SHOP. Any small retail commercial or service establishment
offering goods/services.
      DAYCARE CENTER. See the definition of NURSERY SCHOOL.
      DECK. An open porch which has no roof, is generally open on the sides, is
above ground level, and its intended use is for leisure enjoyment.
      DETACHED. As applied to buildings, surrounded by yards on the same lot as
the building.
      DEVELOP. To erect any structure or to install any improvements on a tract
of land, or to undertake any activity (such as grading) in preparation
therefor.
      DISTRICT ZONING. A portion of the territory of this municipality wherein
certain uniform requirements or various combinations thereof apply to
structures, lots, and uses under the terms of this chapter.
      DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT OR REFRESHMENT STAND. An establishment principally
used for the sale of fast order food for consumption off the premises or in
parked cars on the premises. FAST ORDER FOOD means food that is:
         (a)   Primarily intended for immediate consumption;
         (b)   Available after a short waiting time; and
         (c)   Packaged or presented in such a manner that it can be readily
eaten outside the premises where it is sold.
      DRIVEWAY. A gravel or hard surfaced minor way commonly providing
vehicular access to a single garage or parking area.
      DWELLING. A building or portion thereof designed or used primarily as
living quarters for one or more families, but not including hotels, motels, and
other accommodations for the transient public.
      DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof containing three
or more dwelling units.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached dwelling containing one dwelling unit
and intended for the occupancy of one family.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A dwelling containing two dwelling units.
      DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms designed or used as living quarters by
one family. A DWELLING UNIT always includes a bathroom and a kitchen.
      DWELLING UNIT AREA. The sum of dwelling areas of several floors of a
building, excluding basements, measured from the exterior faces of the exterior
walls or from the center of the common walls of attached buildings.
      EASEMENT. A right to use another person’s real property for certain
limited purposes.
      EMPLOYEE PARKING. Parking spaces reserved especially for the business’
employees.
      ENLARGE. To increase the size (floor area, height, and the like) of an
existing principal structure or accessory use, or to devote more land to an
existing use.
      ERECT. To build or to construct.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Either of the following:
         (a)   An institutional, business, commercial, or industrial activity
that is the sole occupant of one or more buildings; or
         (b)   An institutional, business, commercial, or industrial activity
that occupies a portion of a building such that:
            1.   The activity is a logical and separate entity from the other
activities within the building and not a department of the whole; and
            2.   The activity has either a separate entrance from the exterior
of the building, or a separate entrance from a common and clearly defined
entryway that has direct access to the exterior of the building.
      EXISTING. Existing, constructed, or in operation on the effective date of
this chapter.
      EXTEND. To increase the amount of floor area or land area developed to an
existing use.
      FAMILY. One person, or two or more persons related by blood, marriage, or
legal adoption; or up to four unrelated persons maintaining a common household
in a dwelling unit.
      FILLING STATION. A building or premises or portion thereof designed and
primarily used for the retail sale of gasoline or other automotive fuel, oil,
and automotive parts, supplies, and accessories. A FILLING STATION may include
secondary facilities for washing vehicles and for making minor automotive
repairs.
      FREIGHT TERMINAL. A building to which freight is brought by truck, air,
or railroad freight cars for later distribution.
      FRONTAGE. The linear extent of the front (street side) of a lot.
      GARAGE. A structure designed and intended for the storage of motor
vehicles, whether free of charge or for compensation.
      GASOLINE SERVICE STATION. See the definition of FILLING STATION.
      GOVERNMENT. The act or process of administering public policy in a
political unit; a political jurisdiction, the office, or function thereof.
      HOME OCCUPATION. An accessory use of a dwelling unit for a business,
profession, or occupation conducted for revenue purposes. A HOME OCCUPATION is
incidental to the primary use of the building as a residence and is conducted
by the occupants residing on the premises.
      HOTEL. An establishment containing lodging accommodations designed for
use by travelers or temporary guests. Facilities provided may include a general
kitchen, maid service, desk service, meeting rooms, restaurants, cocktail
lounges, and similar ancillary uses, but not cooking facilities in guestrooms.
      INTERSECTION. The point at which two or more public rights-of-way
(generally streets) meet.
      JUNKYARD. An open area of land or an accessory structure that is used for
buying, selling, exchanging, storing, baling, packing, disassembling, or
handling waste or scrap materials.
         (a)   Such SCRAP MATERIALS include vehicles, machinery, and equipment
not in operable condition or parts thereof, and metals, glass, paper, plastics,
rags, and rubber tires. A lot on which three or more inoperable vehicles are
stored shall be deemed a JUNKYARD.
         (b)   A JUNKYARD includes an automobile wrecking yard.
      KENNEL. Any structure or premises or portion thereof on which more than
three dogs, cats, or other household domestic animals, over four months of age,
are kept or on which more than two such animals are maintained, boarded, bred,
or cared for in return for remuneration or are kept for the purpose of sale.
      LANDING STRIP. A level parcel of land, either grass or paved, where
aircraft can land and/or take off. Airplane hangars, facilities for refueling
and repair, and exterior tie down areas are auxiliary uses that are included in
this definition.
      LOADING SPACE. An off-street space used for the temporary parking of a
commercial vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials.
      LOT. A tract of land use, or developed as a unit, under single ownership
or under single control. A LOT may or may not coincide with a LOT OF RECORD.
      LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side, and
rear lines of a lot.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot having at least two adjacent sides that abut for their
full length upon streets. Both such side lines shall be deemed FRONT LOT LINES.
      LOT, COVERAGE. The portion of a lot that is occupied by buildings or
structures, including accessory buildings or structures.
      LOT COVERAGE, MAXIMUM. The maximum percentage of a lot that can be
occupied by buildings or structures, including accessory buildings or
structures.
      LOT DEPTH. The average horizontal distance between the front lot line and
the rear lot line of a lot.
      LOT LINE, FRONT. Any lot boundary abutting the street.
      LOT LINE, REAR. An interior lot line which is most distant from and most
nearly parallel to the front lot line. The REAR LOT LINE, on corner lots, shall
be defined as the line most distant and most nearly parallel to either of the
front lot lines as defined elsewhere in these definitions.
      LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or a
rear lot line.
      LOT OF RECORD. An area of land designated as a lot on a plat of
subdivision recorded or registered with the Recorder of Deeds of Jersey/
Macoupin County, in accordance with state law.
      LOT SIZE/BULK VARIANCE. A relaxation of the strict application of the lot
size and/or bulk requirements applicable to a particular lot or structure. A
LOT SIZE/BULK VARIANCE is associated with the property.
      LOT SIZE REQUIREMENT. Refers to the lot area, width, and depth
requirements of the applicable district.
      LOT, THROUGH. A lot having a pair of approximately parallel lot lines
that abut two approximately parallel streets. Both such lot lines shall be
deemed FRONT LOT LINES.
      LOT WIDTH. The mean horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a
lot measured at right angles to the depth; or the same distance measured at a
point midway between the front lot line and the rear lot line; or at the rear
line of the required front yard (building lines), especially on irregularly
shaped lots, as determined by the Code Official.
      MAINTENANCE. The routine upkeep of a structure, premises, or equipment,
including the replacement or modification of structural components to the
extent necessary to keep a structure in sound condition.
      MINI-WAREHOUSES. A building, or part of one, for the storage of goods,
merchandise, and the like, for rent to individuals for a monthly fee.
      MOBILE HOME. A home constructed in a factory, and which is transportable
in one or more sections and built on a permanent chassis and designed to be
used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the
required utilities and including the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and
electrical systems contained therein. Any dwelling unit containing the red HUD
label shall be considered a MOBILE HOME. The term shall include:
         (a)   Units composed of two or more separately towable components
designed to be joined into one integral unit capable of being separated again
into the components for repeated towing; and
         (b)   Units designed to be used for residential, commercial,
educational, or industrial purposes and are placed on-site on a permanent
basis.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel not less than two acres in area in single
ownership/control, developed with facilities for accommodating occupied mobile
homes in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
      MOBILE HOME STAND. The part of a mobile home space beneath the mobile
home that includes the concrete slab or runners on which the home is placed.
      MODULAR HOME.
         (a)   Dwelling units that are designed to be placed on a permanent
perimeter foundation which extends below the frost line. These units come in
multiple sections.
         (b)   Only those units which contain the yellow state sticker, or are
constructed by a manufacturer approved by the State Department of Public
Health, shall be considered a MODULAR HOME.
      MOTEL. A building containing lodging rooms having adjoining individual
bathrooms, and where each lodging room has a doorway opening directly to the
outdoors, and where the lodging rooms are for rent to transient tourists for a
continuous period of less than 30 days.
      NONCONFORMING. As applied to a lot, structure, or use:
         (a)   Lawfully existing on the effective date of this chapter; but
         (b)   Not in compliance with the applicable provisions thereof.
      NUISANCE. Any thing, condition, or conduct that endangers health, or
unreasonably offends the senses, or obstructs the free use and comfortable
enjoyment of property, or essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment
of life.
      NURSERY. A tract of land on which trees, shrubs, and other plants are
raised for transplanting and sale, and including any structure in which said
activities are conducted.
      NURSERY SCHOOL. An establishment for the part-time care and/or
instruction (at any time of day) of four or more unrelated children of
predominantly pre-elementary school age.
      NURSING HOME. A building used as a medical care facility for persons who
need long-term nursing care and medical service, but do not require intensive
hospital care.
      OFF-STREET PARKING AREA. Land that is improved and used primarily for the
storage of passenger motor vehicles, free of charge or for compensation. An
OFF-STREET PARKING AREA, depending on the circumstances of its use, may be
either a principal use or an accessory use.
      OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE. An area at least 19 feet long and nine feet
wide within an off-street parking area or garage, used for the storage of one
passenger motor vehicle.
      OFFICE. Any building, or portion thereof, in which the business (usually
clerical and administrative affairs) of a commercial/service enterprise or
professional person is transacted.
      PATIO. An at-grade paved area without any walls usually adjacent to a
building, and which is intended to be used as an outdoor lounging, dining, or
entertaining area.
      PERMANENT FOUNDATION. A below-grade formation, consisting of materials
such as concrete, mortared concrete block, or mortared brick, extending into
the ground a minimum of 36 inches below grade level.
      PERMANENT HABITATION. A period of two or more months.
      PERMITTED USES. Any use which is or may be lawfully established in a
particular district(s), provided it conforms with all the requirements
applicable to said district(s).
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, organization, or corporate
body.
      PLAN. The geographical and topographical maps, engineering and
architectural drawings and specifications, and other information indicating the
location and nature of a development.
      PORCH. A structure attached to a building to shelter an entrance or to
serve as a semi-enclosed space, usually covered with a roof, generally open-
sided, and usually large enough to allow seating devices.
      PREMISES. A lot and all the structures and uses thereon.
      PRINCIPAL BUILDING/STRUCTURE/USE. The main structure erected on or the
main use occupying a lot, as distinguished from an accessory (subordinate)
structure or use.
      PRIVATE STREET. Any street providing access to abutting property that is
not maintained by and dedicated to a unit of government.
      RECONSTRUCT. As applied to nonconforming structures, to rebuild after
partial destruction.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. See the definition of CAMPING TRAILER/RECREATIONAL
VEHICLE.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) PARK. See the definition of CAMPING TRAILER
PARK.
      REFUSE. Garbage (food wastes) and trash, but not sewage or industrial
wastes.
      RELOCATE. To move to another portion of a lot or to a different lot.
      REPAIR. To restore to sound condition, but not to reconstruct.
      RESIDENCE. A site-constructed single-family building designed for use as
a residence. The average width and/or length of the living area (excluding
garages, carports, porches, or attachments) of a RESIDENCE shall not exceed a
ratio of three to one. All RESIDENCES must be placed on a full perimeter
permanent foundation extending below the frost depth, must have a minimum
three-twelfths pitch roof with residential-style siding and roofing, six inches
minimum eaves overhang, and must have a minimum living area of not less than
1,000 square feet. All RESIDENCES must be built to adopted building codes.
      RESTAURANT. A food service facility whose principal business is the
cooking or preparation of food and beverages in a ready-to-consume state either
on or off the premises.
      RETAIL. Refers to the sale of goods and services directly to the consumer
rather than to another business.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY, PUBLIC. A strip of land which the owner/subdivider has
dedicated to the village or to another unit of government for streets and
alleys.
      SANITARY LANDFILL. A tract of open land used for the permanent disposal
of refuse in accordance with the requirements of the State Environmental
Protection Agency.
      SETBACK. The distance between the front lot line and the building line;
or between a side or rear lot line and the side of the structure which faces
such lot line; or between the appropriate lot line and the nearest boundary of
the area of operation which is approximately parallel to such lot line.
      SKIRTING. The cover affixed to the bottom of the exterior walls of a
mobile home to conceal the underside thereof.
      SPECIAL USE. A use that has unusual operational, physical, or other
characteristics which distinguish it from the permitted uses of a district, but
which can be made compatible with the intended overall development within a
district. SPECIAL USES commonly must meet special standards not necessarily
applicable to permitted uses in the district, and are allowed only by permit. A
special use permit shall not be transferable.
      STOOP. A small porch which is usually not covered with a roof and which
is primarily used to provide access to the adjoining building.
      STORAGE BUILDING. A structure designed to keep or store goods and
equipment. Said BUILDING is not designed for occupancy by families or
individuals.
      STREET. A public or private way for motor vehicle travel. The term STREET
includes a highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, pike, avenue,
boulevard, lane, place, drive, court, and similar designations, but excludes an
alley or a way for pedestrian use only.
      STREET LINE. The street right-of-way line abutting a lot line.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground, or attached to
something having a fixed location on the ground. All buildings are STRUCTURES,
but not all structures are buildings.
      STRUCTURE, TEMPORARY. Any structure that is not attached to a permanent
foundation.
      SWIMMING POOL. Any structure that contains water two feet or greater in
depth. This includes in-ground, above-ground and on-ground swimming pools, hot
tubs, and spas.
      TAVERN. An establishment serving alcoholic beverages in which the
principal business is the sale of such beverages at retail for consumption on
the premises and where sandwiches and snacks may be available for consumption
on the premises.
      TOPOGRAPHY. The relief features or surface configuration of an area.
      TRAILER. See the definition of CAMPING TRAILER/RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
      USE. The purpose or activity for which land or a structure thereon is
designed, arranged, intended, occupied, or maintained.
      UTILITY SUBSTATION. A secondary utility facility such as an electrical
substation, gas regulator station, telephone exchange facility, sewage
treatment plant, and the like.
      VARIANCE. See the definition of LOT SIZE/BULK VARIANCE.
      VILLAS (UNIPLEX). A dwelling which has accommodations for two families,
divided by a common or party wall, in which each family area is separately
owned.
      WHOLESALE. Refers to the sale of goods or services by one business to
another business.
      YARD. Open space that is unobstructed except as specifically permitted in
this chapter and that is located on the same lot as the principal building.
      YARD, FRONT. A yard which is bounded by the front lot line and the
building line.
      YARD LINE. A line in a lot that is parallel to the lot line along which
the applicable yard extends and which is not nearer to such lot line at any
point than the required depth or width of said yard.
      YARD, REAR. A yard which is bounded by side lot lines, rear lot lines,
and the rear yard line.
      YARD, SIDE. A yard which is bounded by the rear yard line, front yard
line, side yard line, and side lot line.
      ZONING MAP. The map(s) and any amendments thereto designating zoning
districts. The ZONING MAP is incorporated into this chapter by reference.
(Prior Code, § 10-2-2) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999; Ord. 677, passed 4-6-2009; Ord.
748, passed 4-7-2014)
GENERAL ZONING REGULATIONS
§ 155.020 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   In order to implement this chapter, and to achieve the objectives in §
155.001, the entire municipality is hereby divided into the following zoning
districts.
   (A)   Agricultural district: A-1;
   (B)   Residential districts:
      (1)   One-family dwelling district: R-1;
      (2)   Multiple-family dwelling district: R-2; and
      (3)   Villas (uniplex)-two-family dwelling district: R-2A.
   (C)   Business district: B-1; and
   (D)   Industrial district: I-1.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-1) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999; Ord. 748, passed 4-7-2014)
§ 155.021 ZONING MAP AND DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Zoning map.
      (1)   The boundaries of the listed zoning districts are hereby
established as shown on the zoning map of this municipality. The zoning map,
including all notations and other information thereon, is hereby made a part of
this chapter by reference.
      (2)   Official copies of the zoning map shall be kept on file in the
office of the Code Official or other appropriate official. In the event there
is a conflict between the zoning district given for a legal description of any
parcel, and the description on the map, the zoning district given to the legal
description shall apply.
   (B)   Annual publication. In accordance with state law, the Code Official
shall publish the village zoning map not later than March 31 of each year.
However, no map shall be published for any calendar year during which there
have been no changes in zoning districts or regulations.
   (C)   Annexation requirements. All territory annexed into the village will
be classified as R-1. When new territory is being annexed into the village and
such territory is to be zoned other than R-1, the village must follow the
procedures described in §
155.132.
   (D)   Determining territory of districts with precision. In determining with
precision what territory is actually included within any zoning district, the
Code Official shall apply the following rules.
      (1)   Where a district boundary as indicated on the zoning map
approximately follows the features listed below on the left, the corresponding
feature on the right shall be deemed the district boundary.
 
Centerline of any street, alley, or Such centerline
highway
Lot line                            Such lot line
Railroad tracks                     Center right-of-way line of such track
 
      (2)   Whenever any street, alley, or other public way is legally vacated,
the zoning districts adjoining each side of such vacated public way shall
automatically extend to the center of such way, and all territory included in
the vacated way shall thereafter be subject to all regulations of the extended
districts.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-2) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999)
§ 155.022 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   (A)   Structures and lots.
      (1)   No structure or part thereof shall be erected, used, occupied,
enlarged, altered, relocated, or reconstructed except in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Similarly, no lot or part thereof shall be used, occupied, or
developed except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Agricultural exemption.
      (1)   The provisions of this chapter shall not be interpreted or
administered so as to restrict the erection, maintenance, alteration, or
extension of buildings (including farmhouses) or structures used or intended to
be used for agricultural purposes on agricultural land except that such
buildings or structures shall be required to conform to applicable setback
regulations.
      (2)   Whenever a portion of a tract of land ceases to be used primarily
for agricultural purposes, all pertinent provisions of this chapter shall apply
to that portion.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-3) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.023 UNLISTED USES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Whenever any use is not specifically listed as permitted or special
within a particular zoning district, such use shall be deemed prohibited in
that district.
   (B)   Any use which is not listed within §
155.032 shall be subject to the review process described in §
155.032(B).
(Prior Code, § 10-3-4) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.024 TEMPORARY AND PORTABLE STRUCTURES OR USES.
   No person shall park, store, or occupy a temporary structure for living
purposes except:
   (A)   For a period not in excess of one year, on property for which a
building permit for the construction of a permanent dwelling has been issued,
which construction is actively carried forward to completion within the
aforesaid one year; and/or
   (B)   A portable structure may be used as a temporary office or shelter
incidental to construction or development of the premises on which the
structure is located only during the time construction or development is
actively underway.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-5) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.025 ONE BUILDING AND ALL YARDS ON ONE LOT.
   Except as specifically provided otherwise:
   (A)   Only one principal building or structure shall be permitted on any
residential lot; and
   (B)   No portion of any minimum area, minimum dimensions, or minimum yards
required for any lot, structure, or use shall be counted to satisfy the minimum
area, dimensions, or yards requirements for any other lot, structure, or use.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-6) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.026 ACCESS REQUIRED.
   No building shall be erected on any lot unless such lot abuts, or has
permanent easement of access to, a public street or a private street.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-7) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.027 FRONT SETBACKS.
   (A)   Corner or through lots. Every lot with multiple frontages (such as
corner or through lots) shall meet the front setback requirements of the
district in which it is located on every side having frontage.
   (B)   Certain built-up areas. Except as specifically provided otherwise, in
the residential zoning districts and in the commercial zoning districts, where
existing developments have already established a setback line, then new
developments in that block shall meet that established setback line.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-8) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.028 INTRUSIONS INTO YARDS.
   Except where principal buildings are commonly attached (for example, in the
downtown commercial area), no part of a principal building on one lot shall be
closer than ten feet from any part of a principal building located on an
abutting lot. However, so long as this overriding constraint is observed,
certain intrusions into required yards are permitted as indicated below.
 
Features                                               Maximum Intrusions
Balconies, enclosed porches                            4 feet
Canopies, roof overhangs                               4 feet
Cornices, chimneys, planters, or similar architectural 2 feet
features
Fire escapes                                           4 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 10-3-9) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.029 EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT LIMITS.
   (A)   Necessary appurtenances. Chimneys, parapet walls, cooling towers,
elevator bulkheads, fire towers, antennas, or other necessary appurtenances
commonly constructed above the roofline shall be permitted to exceed the
maximum height limitations by 20% for the district in which they are located if
they comply with all other pertinent ordinances of this municipality.
   (B)   Intersections. On corner lots, in the triangular portion of land
bounded by the street lines that are 30 feet from the point of intersection, no
obstruction, whether natural or human-made, shall intrude into the air space
that is between three and ten feet above the level of the adjacent street.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-10) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.030 ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCESSORY USE. Any structure or use which is:
         (a)   Subordinate in size or purpose to the principal structure or use
which it serves; and
         (b)   Located on the same lot as the principal structure or use
served.
   (B)   General regulations.
      (1)   If an accessory use is attached to the principal structure, it
shall be considered part of that principal structure.
      (2)   Roof overhangs on accessory structures not attached to the
principal structure shall not encroach more than two feet into the required
setback distance.
      (3)   Accessory structures shall be located in back yards only.
   (C)   Specifically prohibited accessory uses. The following accessory uses
are strictly prohibited unless expressly permitted in particular zoning
district(s): use of an accessory structure as a dwelling.
   (D)   Limitations. See the schedules (§§
155.031 and
155.032) for limitations and schedule listings.
(Prior Code, § 10-3-11) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.031 SCHEDULES OF AREA AND BULK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   To facilitate public understanding of this chapter and for the better
administration and convenience of use thereof, the regulations limiting the
dwelling unit density, the heights, bulk, and arrangement of buildings, and
requiring minimum off-street parking for each of the districts established by §
155.020 (or specified use), are set forth as follows.
   (B)   Such schedule is hereby adopted and declared to be an integral part of
this chapter, and it may be amended in the same manner as any other part of
this chapter.
      (1)
                  Minimum Lot Size       Minimum Yard Dimensions
                                                                 Distance
         Maximum  Area                         Depth of Depth of to
Zoning   Number   in     Width at Mean   Depth Side     Side     Nearest   Depth
District of       Square Building Depth  of    Yard     Yard     Principal of
         Dwelling Feet   Line     Linear Front Abutting Abutting Building  Rear
         Units    or              Feet   Yard  Street   a Lot    on        Yard
                  Acres                                          Adjacent
                                                                 Lot
                      Minimum Lot Size            Minimum Yard Dimensions
                                                                          Distance
             Maximum                                    Depth of Depth of to
Zoning       Number   Area in     Width at Mean   Depth Side     Side     Nearest   Depth
District     of       Square Feet Building Depth  of    Yard     Yard     Principal of
             Dwelling or Acres    Line     Linear Front Abutting Abutting Building  Rear
             Units                         Feet   Yard  Street   a Lot    on        Yard
                                                                          Adjacent
                                                                          Lot
A-           1 per 5                       250    50                                50
1            acres    5 acres     250 ft.  ft.    ft.   25 ft.   50 ft.   50 ft.    ft.
agricultural
                                                                          None
                      8,000 sq.                                           except 10 10
B-1 business None     ft.         None     None   None  None     None     ft. from  ft.
                                                                          a
                                                                          residence
I-1 industry None     1 acre      150 ft.  150    25    25 ft.   25 ft.   50 ft.    25
                                           ft.    ft.                               ft.
R-1 one-     1 per    6,000 sq.            100    20                                25
family       lot      ft.         50 ft.   ft.    ft.   20 ft.   5 ft.    10 ft.    ft.
residential
                      7,000 sq.
                      ft. or
R-                    3,500 sq.
2 multiple-           ft. for              100    20                                25
family                each        60 ft.   ft.    ft.   20 ft.   5 ft.    10 ft.    ft.
residential           residential
                      unit,
                      whichever
                      is greater
R-2A two-    1 per    3,500 sq.            100    20                                25
family       lot      ft.         30 ft.   ft.    ft.   20 ft.   5 ft.    0 ft.     ft.
residential
 
      (2)
                                      Accessory Building - Minimum
         Maximum  Maximum   Maximum   Distance of                        Minimum
Zoning   Coverage Height of Height of                 Side Lot           Off-
District in       Principal Accessory Principal Front Line     Side Rear Street
         Percent  Building  Building  Building  Lot   Adjacent Lot  Lot  Parking
         of Lot                                 Line  to       Line Line
                                                      Street
                                          Accessory Building - Minimum
             Maximum  Maximum   Maximum   Distance of                        Minimum
Zoning       Coverage Height of Height of                 Side Lot           Off-
District     in       Principal Accessory Principal Front Line     Side Rear Street
             Percent  Building  Building  Building  Lot   Adjacent Lot  Lot  Parking
             of Lot                                 Line  to       Line Line
                                                          Street
A-                                                  50             25   50   2 per
1            10%      35 ft.    35 ft.    20 ft.    ft.   50 ft.   ft.  ft.  unit
agricultural
                                                                             See §§
B-1 business 50%      35 ft.    35 ft.    None      5 ft. 5 ft.    3    5    155.075
                                                                   ft.  ft.  to
                                                                             155.079
                                                                             1 space
I-1 industry 50%      35 ft.    35 ft.    None      50    50 ft.   25   25   per
                                                    ft.            ft.  ft.  employee
                                                                             per shift
R-1 one-                                            20             5    5    2 per
family       30%      35 ft.    20 ft.    10 ft.    ft.   5 ft.    ft.  ft.  unit
residential
R-
2 multiple-  35%      35 ft.    20 ft.    10 ft.    20    20 ft.   5    5    2 per
family                                              ft.            ft.  ft.  unit
residential
R-2A two-                                           20             5    5    2 per
family       35%      35 ft.    20 ft.    10 ft.    ft.   20 ft.   ft.  ft.  unit
residential
 
(Prior Code, § 10-3-12) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999; Ord. 748, passed 4-7-2014)
Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.032 SCHEDULE OF USES.
   (A)   Regulations; schedule. To facilitate public understanding of this
chapter and for the better administration and convenience of use thereof, the
regulations designating permitted uses, permitted accessory uses, special uses,
and specifically prohibited uses for each of the districts established by §
155.020 are set forth in the schedule below. Such schedule is intended and
declared to be an integral part of this chapter, and it may be amended in the
same manner as any other part of this chapter.
   (B)   Clarification regarding type of use. If a proposed use is not clearly
defined in the schedule below, the matter shall be referred to the Code
Official. The Code Official may confer with the village officials and/or the
Village Attorney. The Code Official shall consider the nature of the proposed
use and determine if it is substantially similar to a use listed in the
schedule below. The factors to be considered include, but are not limited to,
size of the structure, traffic likely to be generated, the presence of
manufacturing, assembly, or preparation at the proposed site, and the degree of
similarity with clearly permitted uses. If the Code Official determines that
the proposed use is substantially similar to a permitted use, the proposed use
shall be considered as permitted and shall be subject to the limitations which
would apply to such clearly permitted similar use. All such designations of
substantially similar use shall be reported to the Village Board. Any proposed
use which is not so characterized as substantially similar to a clearly
permitted use shall be considered as a prohibited unlisted use. An amendment or
special use permit, as applicable, may be sought.
   (C)   Explanation of rows. Each row refers to a specific district which
lists the permitted uses, permitted accessory uses, special uses, and
specifically prohibited uses, and are read vertically under a district column.
   (D)   Limitations and requirements. Limitations and requirements in the
schedule below as used in a column shall mean and include the specific
limitations and requirements as set forth in the same column for the district
referred to. Where reference is made in the schedule below to another section
or provision of this chapter, such section or provision referred to shall
thereby be incorporated as an integral part of the requirements including such
reference. All provisions of this chapter shall apply as integral parts of this
section although not specifically cited as a column.
 
Zoning District  Permitted Uses and   Prohibited Uses       Special Uses
                 Accessory Uses
                 Agricultural uses,
                 single-family
                 residences,          Billboards,           Commercial,
A-1 agricultural municipal buildings, landfills, junkyards, recreation, home
                 churches, schools,   airplane landing      occupations
                 cultural uses, parks strips
                 and recreation, dog
                 pounds/kennels
                 Funeral homes,
                 commercial
                 recreation, hotels,
                 banks, department
                 stores, restaurants,
                 mechanical repair    All uses prohibited
B-1 business     shops, automobile    in the A-1 district
                 sales, clubs/lodges
                 - private, transit
                 storage - not
                 enclosed, offices,
                 filling stations,
                 retail sales
                 Any nonresidential
                 uses permitted in
                 the B-1 district,
                 light manufacturing,
                 warehousing,
                 fabrication,
I-1 industrial   lumberyards (not     All uses prohibited   Residences
                 enclosed), wholesale in the A-1 district
                 fruit and produce,
                 cold storage plants,
                 telephone exchanges
                 including shops or
                 garages, industrial
                 labs
                 Agricultural uses,   All uses prohibited
                 single-family        in the A-1 district,  Mobile home parks,
R-1 one-family   residences, modular  multi-family          funeral homes, home
residential      homes, churches,     residences, mobile    occupations,
                 schools, parks and   homes, kennels as     libraries, duplexes
                 recreation, golf     defined by this
                 courses              chapter
                 Multi-family
                 residences, any use  All uses prohibited
R-2 multi-family permitted in the R-  in the R-1 district,  All special uses
residential      1 district, two-     except multi-family   permitted in the R-
                 family residences,   residences            1 district
                 rooming houses/
                 boarding houses
                 Two-family
                 residences, any use                        All special uses
R-2A two-family  permitted in the R-  All uses prohibited   permitted in the R-
residential      1 district, rooming  in the R-1 district   1 district
                 houses/boarding
                 houses
 
(Prior Code, § 10-3-13) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999; Ord. 748, passed 4-7-2014)
Penalty, see §
155.999
SUPPLEMENTARY ZONING REGULATIONS
§ 155.045 APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter establishes lot and structure requirements, design
standards, and use limitations for specific, potentially troublesome structures
and uses. These regulations apply in every zoning district where the specific
structure or use is permitted or allowed by special use permit. But if more
stringent regulations are applicable in any particular district, such
regulations shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-1) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999)
§ 155.046 CAMPING TRAILERS.
   (A)   Exceptions. The regulations of this subchapter do not apply to camping
trailers or other similar recreational vehicles parked in a permitted camping
trailer park. The requirements of divisions (B), (C), and (D) below do not
apply to camping trailers or other similar recreational vehicles parked on a
permitted camping trailer sales lot.
   (B)   Living quarters. No camping trailer or other similar recreational
vehicle shall be used as living quarters other than in a camping trailer park.
   (C)   Commercial office. No camping trailer or other similar vehicle shall
be used as an office or for any other commercial purposes unless a special use
permit is granted from the village. Said permit shall not exceed 180 days. No
successive permit will be allowed.
   (D)   Front yard. No camping trailer, boat, boat trailer, RV, or other
similar recreational vehicle shall be parked on any front yard or on the street
abutting the residence, either in the front or on the side (except on a
driveway), or on a side yard abutting a street.
   (E)   Street and shoulder of road. No hauling trailers, commercial
equipment, mowers, farm equipment, wreckers, commercial box trucks, commercial
vehicles, or similar type equipment and/or vehicles may be parked in the street
or on the shoulder of the road abutting a residence either in the front or on
the side.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-2) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999; Ord. 619, passed 5-24-2004)
Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.047 FENCES AND WALLS.
   (A)   Location. No sharp pointed fence or barbed wire fence shall be erected
or maintained anywhere in the residential districts. In the commercial or
industrial districts, sharp pointed fences and barbed wire fences are allowed
if the sharp points and/or the barbed wire are above eight feet. No
electrically charged fence shall be erected or maintained anywhere in this
municipality.
   (B)   Approval required. No fence, wall, or other obstruction shall be
erected within any public right-of-way without the written approval of the Code
Official.
   (C)   Compliance with State Drainage Code. No fence, wall, or other
obstruction shall be erected in violation of the State Drainage Code, being 70
ILCS 605.
   (D)   Height.
      (1)   Every fence, wall, or other obstruction shall conform to the
special height restrictions applicable in areas near intersections.
      (2)   No fence, wall, or other obstructions in any front yard area shall
exceed four feet in height or, in any rear or side yard, exceed eight feet in
height unless a commercial or industrial lot abuts the rear or side yard of a
residential lot, and then privacy screening requirements must be followed.
      (3)   All fences shall be properly maintained and in good repair.
   (E)   Property lines. Fences may be located on the property lines.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-3) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999; Ord. 619, passed 5-24-2004)
Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.048 FILLING STATIONS.
   (A)   Location. All gasoline pumps, service facilities, or restrictive
materials shall be located at least 25 feet from any street right-of-way line,
side lot line, or rear lot line.
   (B)   Trash receptacles screened. All trash receptacles, except minor
receptacles adjacent to the gasoline pumps, shall be screened from view.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-4) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.049 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Definition; regulations. A HOME OCCUPATION means any business,
profession, or occupation (excluding retail sales) for gain or support entirely
within a residential building or on residential premises. Within this
municipality, every home occupation shall be considered a special use. no home
occupation shall be established except in conformity with the following
regulations.
      (1)   Unrelated employees. A home occupation shall have no unrelated
outside employees. No home shall be used as a headquarters for nonrelated
employees; a home may not provide parking for nonrelated employees.
      (2)   Floor space. The total area used for a home occupation shall not
exceed 25% of the gross floor area of the dwelling, or 300 square feet,
whichever is less.
      (3)   Daycare homes.
         (a)   Daycare homes must be licensed by the State Department of
Children and Family Services and must be located in family homes, which may
receive from three up to six children for less than 24 hours per day. The
number counted does not include the family’s natural or adopted children and
all other persons under the age of 12 residing in the home.
         (b)   The term does not include family homes which receive children
from a single household. Any room that the children are allowed to enter must
have at least two exits available in case of an emergency. All other
requirements stated in this section must be followed.
      (4)   Dwelling alterations. In any residential district, a principal
residential building shall not be altered (to accommodate a home occupation) in
such a way as to materially change the residential character of the building.
      (5)   Outdoor storage. Outdoor (unenclosed) storage or display of
equipment or materials used in connection with a home occupation is prohibited.
      (6)   Nuisances. A home occupation shall not generate any offensive
noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat, glare, or electrical interference
noticeable at or beyond the lot lines.
      (7)   Signs. A sign may be displayed by the home occupation. The sign
shall not exceed four square feet in size and shall not be illuminated or
detract from the general character of the neighborhood.
   (B)   Violation. If any of the regulations listed in division (A) above are
violated, the Village Board has the authority to revoke the home occupation
permit.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-5) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.050 NURSING HOMES.
   The lot on which any nursing home is situated shall have a minimum width and
depth of 200 feet, and a minimum area of one and one-half acres.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-6) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.051 JUNKYARDS.
   After the effective date of this chapter, no part of any junkyard (which
includes any lot on which any three or more inoperable or unlicensed vehicles
are stored) shall be operated within this village.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-7) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.052 SCHOOLS.
   (A)   Minimum lot area. The lot on which any school is situated shall have
the minimum area indicated below.
 
Type of School                               Minimum Lot Area
Nursery, daycare center                      10,000 square feet
Other (elementary, junior high, senior high) As required by state law
 
   (B)   Location. The principal building of any school shall be located at
least 25 feet from all lot lines.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-8) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.053 SWIMMING POOLS; FENCES.
   Every swimming pool two feet or greater in depth, whether public or private,
shall be enclosed by a wall or fence at least four feet in height above the
finished grade and must have a gate that shall be locked when the pool is not
in use. An above-ground pool, four feet or higher, need not have a fence with a
gate, so long as the ladder is removed when not in use or is folded and locked.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-9) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.054 ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
applies unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ESSENTIAL SERVICE. Includes the erection, construction, alteration, or
maintenance, by public agencies of underground or overhead gas, electrical,
steam, or water transmission or distribution systems, collection,
communication, supply, or disposal systems, elevated and underground water
storage tanks, including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits,
cables, fire alarm boxes, and other similar equipment and accessories in
connection therewith, reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate
service by such public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies or
for the public health or safety or general welfare.
   (B)   Restrictions not imposed. Nothing contained in these regulations shall
impose restrictions for the provision of essential services by a public utility
(as defined in the state statutes).
(Prior Code, § 10-4-10) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999)
§ 155.055 MOBILE HOMES.
The following requirements are supplementary to the state’s mobile home parks
laws as regulated by the State Department of Public Health pursuant thereto.
   (A)   Mobile Homes on individual lots.
      (1)   No mobile home located outside a mobile home park or court may be
replaced with another mobile home.
      (2)   No mobile home shall be upon land located within the Village of
Brighton zoning limits, unless it had been established before year 2021.
      (3)   Mobile homes shall be utilized only as a dwelling unit for owner or
renter occupancy.
      (4)   All mobile homes shall be connected to all available public
utilities in accordance with all requirements for any residential structures in
the Village of Brighton.
      (5)   All mobile homes shall conform to all zoning requirements that are
applicable to the zoning district in which it is located.
   (B)   Modular Homes.
      (1)   Modular homes are often known as factory-built, prefabricated, or
systems-built homes.
      (2)   A modular home is defined as a prefabricated house built off-site
in a factory, completed in sections called modules, according to specific
plans, then transported and assembled on a prepared foundation.
      (3)   All modular homes shall be placed in a full perimeter foundation,
extending below the frost depth.
      (4)   All modular homes shall conform to all local building codes and
zoning requirements.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-11) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999; amd. Ord. 2025-04, passed 4-7-
2025) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.056 PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   In any district where municipally owned or other publicly owned buildings
are permitted, the following additional requirements shall be met.
   (A)   In any residential district, all municipal or other publicly owned
buildings shall be located at least 25 feet from all property lines.
   (B)   (1)   In any residential or commercial district, there shall be no
permanent storage of heavy construction or maintenance equipment (such as
excavating, road building, or hauling equipment), unless in an enclosed
building or enclosed within a solid wall or fence at least six feet in height.
      (2)   Such storage areas, maintenance yards, or storage warehouses shall
be located at least 25 feet from any front or side property line.
   (C)   In any business/commercial district, all exterior building materials
shall be of high durability and quality and require low maintenance, and must
have the approval of the Zoning Board or its duly designated agent.
   (D)   An exception may be granted from the requirements stated herein for
any residential dwelling located within the business/commercial district at the
discretion of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (E)   In the event a residential dwelling is utilized as a business/
commercial building, and is subject to destruction affecting 50% or more of the
premises, upon restoration, the owner shall comply with the terms, conditions,
and provisions of this section upon such restoration.
   (F)   In the event a residential dwelling is located within the business/
commercial zoning area, and is subject to destruction affecting 50% or more of
the premises, upon restoration of the residence for dwelling purposes, the
owner shall be exempt from the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-12) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999; Ord. 749, passed 4-7-2014; Ord.
2018-12, passed 3-22-2018) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.057 KENNELS.
   (A)   Area. The lot on which any kennel is situated shall have a minimum
area of three acres.
   (B)   Location. Every kennel shall be located at least 200 feet from the
nearest dwelling, and at least 100 feet from any lot line.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-13) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.058 LIGHTING CONTROL.
   Any light used for the illumination of signs, swimming pools, or for any
other purpose shall be arranged so as to confine the direct light rays away
from neighboring residential properties and away from the vision of passing
motorists.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-14) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.059 PRIVACY SCREENING.
   Where any commercial or industrial district abuts any residential district,
a privacy screen of village-approved material, whether natural or human-made,
must be provided by the property owner. The following regulations must apply.
   (A)   Screen. The screen must be at least eight feet in height, provide 90%
density year-round, and be maintained to original specifications by the
property owner as long as the screen is a requirement.
   (B)   Natural materials. Natural materials may be six feet when planted but
must be at least eight feet and provide 90% density within three years of
occupancy.
   (C)   Approval. All materials must be approved by the Code Official prior to
installation or the granting of an occupancy permit.
   (D)   Exceptions.
      (1)   The residential property is lawfully being used for commercial or
industrial purposes.
      (2)   The residential property is owned by the commercial or industrial
owner and provides a 50-foot buffer between the commercial or industrial
property and other residential properties.
      (3)   The commercial or industrial use was established before the
adjoining property was annexed or was designated as residential.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-15) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.060 DUMPSTER; TRASH DISPOSAL.
   All existing and newly constructed structures that contain more than three
units shall be required to provide an on-site trash disposal dumpster. Said
dumpster shall contain a minimum of one-half cubic yard capacity for each
apartment unit, and shall be screened from view, at least one foot above the
height of the dumpster.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-16) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.061 BILLBOARDS.
   The placement of billboards within the corporate limits of the village and
in the territory located within one and one-half miles of the corporate limits
of the village is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 10-4-17) (Ord. 687, passed 2-2-2010) Penalty, see §
155.999
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 155.075 APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   Scope. Off-street parking and loading shall be provided in accordance
with this subchapter for all structures and uses erected or established after
the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   Existing parking and loading facilities.
      (1)   Existing off-street parking or loading facilities located on the
same lot as the use served shall not be reduced below, or, if already less
than, shall not be further reduced below, the requirements and standards for
similar new structures or uses.
      (2)   When an existing structure or use is damaged or destroyed and
subsequently repaired or rebuilt to the same square footage prior to damage,
additional off-street parking and loading facilities need not be provided, but
parking and loading facilities equivalent to any maintained at the time of such
damage or destruction shall be restored.
      (3)   Whenever the use of any structure or premises is intensified
through the addition of dwelling units, gross floor area, seating capacity, and
the like, additional parking and loading facilities commensurate with such
increase in use intensity shall be provided.
      (4)   Whenever the existing use of a structure is changed to a different
use, parking or loading facilities shall be provided as required herein for
such new use.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-1) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.076 PARKING DESIGN AND MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Spaces.
      (1)   Each required parking space shall be at least nine feet wide and 19
feet long, and shall have at least seven feet of vertical clearance.
      (2)   Every space shall be situated so that no part of any parked vehicle
can overhang the public right-of-way, public or private sidewalks, or property
lines.
      (3)   For multi-family residential, commercial, and industrial uses,
markings shall be laid and restored as often as necessary to clearly delineate
each parking space.
   (B)   Interior aisles. Aisles within parking lots in multi-family
residential, commercial, and industrial districts shall be sufficiently wide to
permit safe and efficient vehicular movement in the aisles, and into and out of
parking spaces. Aisles designed for two-way traffic shall be at least 24 feet
wide. One-way aisles designed for 60-degree parking shall be at least 20 feet
wide.
   (C)   Access way.
      (1)   Parking areas in the multi-family residential, commercial, and
industrial districts shall be designed so that ingress to and egress from a
parking space is from an aisle or driveway, not directly from the public right-
of-way.
      (2)   No access way to any parking area shall be located within 30 feet
of any corner formed by the intersection of the rights-of-way of two or more
streets. At intersections where traffic-control devices are installed, the Code
Official may increase this requirement as necessary to prevent traffic hazards.
      (3)   The access way to every parking lot located in any commercial and
industrial zoning district shall be at least 24 feet wide unless two one-way
drives, each 12 feet wide, are provided.
      (4)   The access way to every parking area located in the multi-family
residential zoning district shall be at least ten feet wide; but if the parking
area contains more than eight parking spaces or if the access way is longer
than 100 feet, access shall be provided either by one two-way drive at least 20
feet wide or by two one-way drives, each at least ten feet wide.
   (D)   Lighting. Any light(s) used to illuminate any parking area shall be
arranged or shielded so as to confine direct light rays within the parking area
boundary lines to the greatest extent practicable.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-2) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.077 LOCATION OF PARKING.
   All off-street parking shall be located in conformity with the following
requirements.
   (A)   Residential districts.
      (1)   Parking spaces accessory to dwellings located in any residential
zoning district shall be located on the same lot as the dwelling. Such parking
spaces shall not be located in any front yard except in the driveway, but may
be located in the side or rear yards. Each parking space accessory to a multi-
family dwelling shall be unobstructed so that no vehicle need be moved in order
to allow another vehicle to enter or exit the parking area.
      (2)   All parking spaces accessory to permitted nondwelling uses located
in the residential zoning district generally shall be located on the same lot
as the use served. However, by special use permit, such parking facilities may
be located on another parcel within 200 feet of the use served.
      (3)   No vehicle exceeding one-ton cargo capacity shall be parked
anywhere in a residential district (except for normal loading, unloading, and
service calls), this includes on streets and on private lots, unless a special
use permit has been obtained.
   (B)   Commercial and industrial districts.
      (1)   (a)   Parking spaces accessory to any dwelling located in any
commercial district shall be located within 200 feet of the dwelling.
         (b)   Parking spaces accessory to any other conforming use located in
any commercial or industrial district shall be located within 500 feet of the
use served.
      (2)   No parking space accessory to any use located in a commercial or
industrial district shall be located in any residential district except by
special use permit; and in no case shall any such parking areas extend more
than 500 feet into a residential district.
      (3)   In any commercial or industrial district, off-street parking
facilities for different buildings or uses may be provided collectively if the
total number of spaces so located together is not less than the sum of the
separate requirements for each use, and if all regulations governing the
location of parking spaces in relation to the use served are observed.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-3) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.078 DESIGN AND LOCATION OF OFF-STREET LOADING FACILITIES.
   All off-street loading facilities shall conform to the minimum standards as
indicated.
   (A)   Size of space. Every required off-street loading space shall be at
least 12 feet wide and 30 feet long exclusive of aisle and maneuver space, and
shall have vertical clearance of at least 14 feet. In no case shall a vehicle
being loaded or unloaded overhang into the public right-of-way.
   (B)   Access way. Every off-street loading space shall have a safe means of
vehicular access to a street or alley. Such access way shall be at least 12
feet wide.
   (C)   Location. Every off-street loading space, whether required or not,
shall be located on the same parcel of land as the use served, and not closer
than 50 feet to the intersection of the rights-of-way of two or more streets,
and not on required front yards.
(Prior Code, § 10-5-4) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.079 PARKING SPACES REQUIRED.
Zoning District Minimum Number of Parking Spaces
Zoning District                         Minimum Number of Parking Spaces
A, R-1                                  2 spaces per unit
B-1
 Auditorium, churches, libraries,       1 space per 4 seats, or 1 space per
 museums, theaters (indoor), halls,     each 300 square feet of total floor
 stage, and uses other than restaurants area, whichever is greater, plus 1
                                        space per employee per shift
 Automobile service stations, banks,    Recommendation by Code Official and
 hospitals                              final decision by Village Board
                                        4 spaces for each alley, plus such
 Bowling alleys                         additional spaces as may be required
                                        herein for affiliated uses (restaurants
                                        and the like)
 Hotels, motels                         1 space per each guest room, plus 1
                                        space per employee per shift
 Machinery sales, motor vehicle sales,  1 space per each 300 square feet of
 municipal buildings                    total floor area
                                        1 space per each 300 square feet of
 Office uses                            total floor area, plus 1 space for each
                                        company or commercial vehicle
 Restaurants, drive-ins                 1 space per each 25 square feet of used
                                        floor space plus stacking spaces
                                        1 space per each 50 square feet of
 Restaurants, sit down type, bars,      seating area or 1 space per every 3
 nightclubs, and taverns                seats, whichever is greater, plus 1
                                        space per employee per shift
 Retail service stores                  1 space per each 300 square feet of
                                        total floor area
I-1                                     1 space per employee per shift
R-2                                     2 parking spaces per unit behind
                                        building line
 
(Prior Code, § 10-5-5) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
NONCONFORMITIES
§ 155.090 PURPOSE.
   The requirements imposed by this chapter are designed to guide the use of
land by encouraging the development of structures and uses that are compatible
with the predominant character of each of the various residential, commercial,
and industrial districts. Lots, structures, and uses of land or structures that
do not conform to the requirements of the district in which they are located
impede appropriate development. For example, nonconformities are frequently
responsible for heavy traffic on residential streets, the over-taxing of
parking facilities, the emission of noxious fumes or excessive noise, and/or
the lowering of property values. The regulations in this subchapter are
intended to alleviate such existing/potential problems by encouraging the
gradual elimination of nonconformities.
(Prior Code, § 10-6-1) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999)
§ 155.091 NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   (A)   Vacant lots. Any vacant lot that does not conform to one or more of
the lot size requirements of the district in which it is located may be used in
the manner indicated at divisions (B) and (C) below if it:
      (1)   Is of record on the date of the adoption or amendment of this
chapter;
      (2)   Has continuously remained in separate ownership from abutting
tracts of land throughout the entire period during which the creation of such
lot was prohibited by the applicable zoning code or other ordinances; and
      (3)   Is at least 30 feet wide.
   (B)   Residential. On any existing nonconforming lot located in any
district, any permitted structures may be erected, provided all the bulk and
setback regulations of the particular district are observed. If the bulk and
setback regulations cannot be met, then a variance provided for in §
155.146 must be obtained.
   (C)   Other districts. On any existing nonconforming lot located in the
commercial or industrial districts, any structure permitted in the particular
district may be erected if the bulk and setback requirements of that district
are met. If the bulk and setback regulations cannot be met, then a variance
provided for in §
155.146 must be obtained.
   (D)   Two or more lots in common ownership. If two or more lots or
combinations of lots and portions of lots with continuous frontage were of
record and in common ownership on the date of the enactment or amendment of
this chapter, and if one or more of those lots do not meet the minimum lot
width, depth, and area requirements of the district in which they are located,
the land involved shall be considered an undivided parcel for the purposes of
this chapter. No portion of any such parcel shall be developed except in
compliance with this chapter, nor shall any such parcel be divided so as to
create a lot that does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-6-2) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.092 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Any lawful structure which exists on the date of the enactment or amendment
of this chapter, but which could not be erected under the terms of this chapter
because of restrictions on lot size, height, setbacks, lot coverage, or other
characteristics of the structure, or its location on the lot, may lawfully
remain, subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   Enlargement; alterations. No such structure shall be enlarged or
altered in any way which increases its nonconformity.
   (B)   Relocation. No such structure shall be relocated unless, after
relocation, it will conform to all the regulations of the district in which it
is located.
   (C)   Reconstruction. Any structure (residential, commercial, or industrial)
destroyed or damaged may be reconstructed, provided it meets the following
regulations.
      (1)   The new structure shall not exceed the square footage of the
original structure.
      (2)   The setback requirements of the new structure shall not be less
than the setback of the original structure.
      (3)   Construction of the new structure must begin within one year from
the date the damage or destruction occurred.
(Prior Code, § 10-6-3) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.093 NONCONFORMING USES OCCUPYING STRUCTURES.
   If any lawful use occupying a structure exists on the date of the enactment
or amendment of this chapter, but would not be allowed under the terms of this
chapter, such a use may lawfully continue, subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   Maintenance. Any structure housing a nonconforming use may be
maintained through ordinary repairs.
   (B)   Enlargement, alteration, reconstruction, or relocation. No structure
housing a nonconforming use shall be enlarged, structurally altered,
reconstructed, or relocated unless the use of the structure is changed to a
permitted use.
   (C)   Extension of use. No nonconforming use may be extended to any part(s)
of the structure not intended or designed to be devoted to such use, nor shall
the nonconforming use be extended to occupy any land outside such structure.
   (D)   Change of use. A nonconforming use occupying a structure shall not be
changed except to a use permitted under the applicable district regulations.
   (E)   Discontinuance of use. When a nonconforming use of a structure, or of
a structure and premises in combination, is discontinued for 12 consecutive
months or for 18 months during any three-year period, the nonconforming use
shall not thereafter be resumed. Any discontinuance caused by government action
and without any contributing fault by the nonconforming user shall not be
counted in calculating the length of discontinuance.
(Prior Code, § 10-6-4) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.094 NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND.
   Any lawful use of land existing on the date of the adoption or amendment of
this chapter that would not be permitted under the terms of this chapter may
lawfully continue, subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   Intensification or extension of use. A nonconforming use of land shall
not be intensified, or extended to occupy a greater area of land than was
occupied by such use on the date of the adoption or amendment of this chapter.
   (B)   Relocation. No nonconforming use of land shall be moved, in whole or
in part, unless, upon relocation, such use will conform to all pertinent
regulations of the district in which it will be located.
   (C)   Change of use. A nonconforming use of land shall not be changed except
to a use that is permitted under the applicable district regulations.
   (D)   Discontinuance. When a nonconforming use of land is discontinued for a
period of 12 consecutive months, it shall not thereafter be resumed, and any
subsequent use of such land shall conform to the applicable district
regulations. Any discontinuance caused by government action and without any
contributing fault by the owner or operator shall not be counted in calculating
the length of discontinuance.
(Prior Code, § 10-6-5) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.095 OPEN LAND, NONCONFORMING USE.
   A nonconforming use not enclosed in a building or structure, or one in which
the use of the land is a use exercised principally out-of-doors and outside of
a building or structure, shall, after three years from the date of
notification, become a prohibited and unlawful use and shall be discontinued.
(Prior Code, § 10-6-6) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.096 NONCONFORMITIES UNDER PERMIT AUTHORITY.
   The regulations of this subchapter shall not apply to any change in an
existing structure or to any change in the use of structure or of land for
which a permit was issued prior to the enactment of this chapter or any
pertinent amendment thereto, provided that the work authorized by such permit
is carried out and completed with diligence.
(Prior Code, § 10-6-7) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.110 CODE OFFICIAL.
   (A)   Office established. The office of Code Official of this municipality
is hereby established. The Code Official shall be the executive head of this
office.
   (B)   Duties. The Code Official is hereby authorized and directed to
diligently administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter. This broad
responsibility encompasses, but is not limited to, the following specific
duties:
      (1)   To review applications pertaining to land, structures, and the uses
of land and/or structures;
      (2)   To supervise inspections of land, structures, and the uses of land
and/or structures to determine compliance with this chapter, and where there
are violations, to initiate appropriate action to secure compliance;
      (3)   To receive and file all applications for amendments and special use
permits;
      (4)   To maintain up-to-date records of this chapter, including, but not
limited to, district maps, special use permits, variances, interpretative
decisions of the Board of Appeals, amendments, and all applications related to
any of these matters;
      (5)   To periodically review the provisions of this chapter to determine
whether revisions are needed, and to make recommendations on these matters to
the Village Board at least once each year;
      (6)   To cause copies of this chapter (including the district map) and
any amendments thereto to be printed from time to time, as necessary; and
      (7)   To provide information to the general public on topics related to
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-7-1) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999)
§ 155.111 BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   No lot or structure or part thereof that has been created, developed,
erected, enlarged, altered, relocated, or reconstructed after the effective
date of this chapter shall be used or occupied until a building permit has been
issued.
   (B)   The Code Official shall issue no building permit unless he or she
determines, by inspection, that the lot or structure as completed, and the
proposed use thereof, conforms to all applicable provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-7-2) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.112 PROCEDURES UPON VIOLATION.
   Whenever the Code Official determines, by inspection or by other means, that
reasonable grounds exist for believing that any lot, structure, or use is in
violation of this chapter, he or she shall so notify the responsible party in
writing, and shall institute appropriate measures to secure compliance.
   (A)   Corrective action order. To secure compliance with this chapter, the
Code Official may issue a corrective action order. Such order shall be deemed
properly served upon the owner, occupant, or operator of the offending lot,
structure, or use if it is served upon such party personally, sent by
registered mail to his or her last known address, or posted in a conspicuous
place on or about the affected premises. Corrective action orders shall
include:
      (1)   A description of the premises sufficient for identification;
      (2)   A statement of what constitutes the violation;
      (3)   An outline of the remedial action necessary to effect compliance;
      (4)   The date by which the violation must be corrected;
      (5)   The date by which any appeal of the correction order must be filed
with the Board of Appeals, a statement of the procedure for so filing, and a
statement that the failure to file an appeal shall be considered as a final
decision of the Board of Appeals;
      (6)   A statement that failure to abide by a corrective action order
constitutes a separate violation of this chapter; and
      (7)   A statement of the penalties attached to any violation of this
chapter.
   (B)   Stop-work order. Whenever any building or structure, including
fixtures, is constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or
maintained or any building or structure, including fixtures, or land, is used
in violation of this chapter, the Code Official may order that such work be
stopped immediately. The Code Official’s stop-work order may be served on any
person engaged in or responsible for such work or use, or may be posted in a
conspicuous place on or about the affected premises. Failure to abide by a
stop-work order shall be unlawful and deemed a separate violation of this
chapter. Any person served with a stop-work order may appeal such stop-work
order to the Board of Appeals, and the failure to do so shall be considered as
a final decision of the Board of Appeals.
(Prior Code, § 10-7-3) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.113 EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, whenever the Code
Official determines that any violation of this chapter poses an imminent peril
to life or property, he or she may institute, without notice or hearing, any
necessary proceedings to alleviate the perilous condition. The Code Official
shall take no such action until he or she has consulted with the Village
Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 10-7-4) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999)
§ 155.114 COMPLAINTS.
   Whenever any violation of this chapter occurs, or is alleged to have
occurred, any person may file a written complaint on forms provided by the Code
Official. The Code Official shall record such complaints, immediately
investigate, and, if necessary, institute appropriate corrective measures.
(Prior Code, § 10-7-5) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999)
§ 155.115 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Noncompliance. Failure to comply with any provision of this chapter
shall constitute a misdemeanor, and each day that such violation continues
shall be considered a separate offense.
   (B)   Other lawful action. Nothing contained in this section shall prevent
this municipality from taking any other lawful action that may be necessary to
secure compliance with this chapter.
   (C)   Preventative action. In addition to any other remedy or penalty, the
village may institute any appropriate action or proceeding:
      (1)   To prevent the unlawful construction, reconstruction, alteration,
repair, conversion, maintenance, or use;
      (2)   To prevent the occupancy of the building, structure, or land;
      (3)   To prevent any illegal act, conduct, business, or use in or about
the premises;
      (4)   To restrain, correct, or abate the violation; or
      (5)   To take such other action available at law or equity to enforce the
terms, purposes, and intent of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-7-6) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.116 REVIEW UNDER ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW LAW.
   All final decisions of the Board of Appeals shall be subject to judicial
review pursuant to the provisions of the Administrative Review Law, being 735
ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 10-7-7) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999)
SPECIAL USES AND AMENDMENTS
§ 155.130 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   The Board of Appeals of this municipality is hereby designated by the
corporate authorities as the board who will conduct all public hearings
concerning special uses and zoning amendments.
(Prior Code, § 10-8-1) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999)
§ 155.131 SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   General. This chapter divides this municipality into various
districts, and permits in each district only those uses which are clearly
compatible with one another. Certain other uses, because of their special
operational or physical characteristics, may or may not have a detrimental
impact on nearby permitted uses, depending upon their precise location, manner
of operation, and other factors. Such “special uses” require careful case-by-
case review and recommendation of the Board of Appeals and then final approval
by the Village Board. A vote of at least two-thirds of the members of the
Village Board is required to pass or deny a special use permit when passage or
denial is contrary to the recommendation of the Board of Appeals. There shall
be a fee of $150, plus mailing and publication costs.
   (B)   Applicant. Every applicant for a special use permit shall apply on an
application as provided by the Code Official. Then the Code Official shall
forward his or her recommendation to the Board of Appeals for further
consideration.
   (C)   Hearing. The Board of Appeals shall hold a public hearing on any
application for a special use permit not later than 30 days after its filing.
At the hearing, any interested party may appear and testify, either in person
or by duly authorized agent or attorney.
   (D)   Notice.
      (1)   Notice of the public hearing shall be given not more than 30 nor
less than 15 days before the hearing:
         (a)   By registered or certified mail to the applicant and to every
owner of property adjacent to the premises for which the special use permit is
requested; and
         (b)   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation within this
municipality.
      (2)   This notice shall indicate the time, date, and place of the
hearing, the particular location for which the special use permit is requested,
and the nature of the proposed special use.
   (E)   Factors considered. In making its decision, the Board of Appeals shall
consider the following factors:
      (1)   Whether the proposed design, location, and manner of operation of
the proposed special use is protective of the public health, safety, and
welfare;
      (2)   The effect the proposal would have on the value of neighboring
property;
      (3)   The effect the proposal would have on this municipality’s overall
tax base;
      (4)   The effect the proposal would have on public utilities and on
traffic circulation on nearby streets; and
      (5)   Whether there are any facilities nearby that require special
protection.
   (F)   Recommendation by Board of Appeals; standards. The Board may recommend
in writing at its meeting and transmit to the Village Board a special use
permit without further public hearing by simple majority vote, provided that
such special use, as conditioned, is:
      (1)   Protective of the public health, safety, and welfare;
      (2)   In keeping with the general purposes of this chapter and the
village land use and transportation plan; and
      (3)   Consistent with the characteristics of the general nature of the
area in which the special use is to be located.
(Prior Code, § 10-8-2) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999)
§ 155.132 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   General. In accordance with state law and the provisions of this
section, the Village Board may amend the regulations imposed and the districts
established in this chapter. Any proposed alteration of district boundaries,
zoning classification, or proposed change in the status of any use (whether
permitted, special, or prohibited) shall be treated as a proposed amendment,
and dealt with accordingly. Amendments may be proposed by the Village Board,
the Code Official, Board of Appeals, or any party of interest.
   (B)   Filing. Any proposal to amend this chapter shall be filed on a
prescribed form with the Code Official, who shall forward it, together with his
or her recommendation, to the Board of Appeals.
   (C)   Hearing. The Board of Appeals shall hold a public hearing on every
amendment proposal not later than 30 days after its filing. At the hearing, any
interested party may appear and testify, either in person or by duly authorized
agent or attorney.
   (D)   Notice.
      (1)   Notice of the public hearing shall be given not more than 30 nor
less than 15 days before the hearing:
         (a)   By registered or certified mail to the applicant and to every
owner of property adjacent to the premises for which the amendment is
requested; and
         (b)   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation within this
municipality.
      (2)   This notice shall indicate the time, date, and place of the
hearing, the particular location for which the amendment is requested, and the
nature of the proposed amendment.
   (E)   Advisory report findings of fact. Not later than ten days after the
public hearing, the Board of Appeals shall submit its advisory report and
findings of fact in writing to the Village Board. The Board of Appeals shall
not recommend the adoption of any amendment unless it finds that such amendment
is in the public interest and not merely for the benefit of the party proposing
it. Where the effect of a proposed amendment is to alter district boundaries or
to change the status (permitted, special, or prohibited) of any use, the Board
of Appeals shall make findings regarding all of the following matters:
      (1)   Existing uses of property in the vicinity of the property in
question;
      (2)   The district classification of property in the vicinity of the
property in question;
      (3)   The suitability of the property in question for uses already
permitted under the existing district classification; and
      (4)   The trend of development in the vicinity of property in question,
including changes (if any) which may have taken place since that property was
placed in its present district classification.
   (F)   Decision by Village Board. The Village Board shall act on every
proposed amendment at its next regularly scheduled meeting following submission
of the Board of Appeals advisory report. Except as provided in division (G)
below, the Village Board, without further public hearing, may, by simple
majority vote, pass any proposed amendment or may refer it back to the Board of
Appeals for further consideration.
   (G)   When two-thirds majority vote is required. The favorable vote of at
least two-thirds of the members of the Village Board is required to pass an
amendment to this chapter in each of the following instances:
      (1)   When passage would be contrary to the recommendation of the Board
of Appeals; and
      (2)   When the amendment is opposed, in writing, by the owners of 20% of
the frontage proposed to be altered, or by the owners of 20% of the frontage
immediately adjoining or across an alley therefrom, or by the owners of 20% of
the frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to be altered.
   (H)   Notice to applicant of written protest. In cases of written opposition
to an amendment of this chapter as prescribed in division (G)(2) above, a copy
of the written protest shall be served by the protestor or protestors on the
applicant for the proposed amendment and a copy upon the applicant’s attorney,
if any, by registered mail at the address of such applicant and attorney shown
in the application for the proposed amendment.
(Prior Code, § 10-8-3) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999)
APPEALS, VARIANCES, AND FILING FEES
§ 155.145 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by any decision or order of the Code Official in any
matter related to the interpretation or enforcement of any provision of this
chapter may appeal to the Board of Appeals on a prescribed form. Every such
appeal shall be made and treated in accordance with state law and the
provisions of this section.
   (A)   Filing, record transmittal. Every appeal shall be made within 45 days
of the matter complained of by filing with the Village Clerk and the Board of
Appeals a written notice specifying the grounds for appeal. Not more than five
working days after the notice of appeal has been filed, the Village Clerk shall
transmit to the Board of Appeals and the Code Official all records pertinent to
the case.
   (B)   Stay of further proceedings. An appeal stays all further action on the
matter being appealed unless the Code Official certifies to the Board, after
the notice of appeal has been filed with him or her, that for reasons stated in
the certificate, a stay would cause imminent peril to life or property. In such
case, further action shall not be stayed unless the Board or the Circuit Court
grants a restraining order for due cause, and so notifies the Code Official.
   (C)   Hearing. The Board of Appeals shall hold a hearing on every appeal not
later than 30 days after the filing of the appeal notice. At the hearing, any
interested party may appear and testify, either in person or by duly authorized
agent or attorney.
   (D)   Notice.
      (1)   Notice of the hearing shall be given not more than 30 nor less than
15 days before the hearing:
         (a)   By registered or certified mail to the petitioner and to every
owner of property adjacent to the premises to which the appeal is requested;
and
         (b)   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation within this
municipality.
      (2)   This notice shall indicate the time, date, and place of the
hearing, the particular location for which the appeal is requested and briefly
describe the issue to be decided.
   (E)   Decision by Board of Appeals. The Board shall be required to decide
all appeals within 15 days after the final hearing thereon. The Board may
reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement,
decision, or determination as, in its opinion, ought to be made in the
premises, and to that end, has all the powers of the officer from whom the
appeal is taken. A certified copy of the Board’s decision shall be transmitted
to the applicant or appellant and to the Code Official. Such decision shall be
binding upon the Code Official and observed by him or her, and he or she shall
be required to incorporate the terms and conditions of the same in the zoning
certificate to the applicant or appellant whenever a certificate is authorized
by the Board. All final administrative decisions of the Board shall be subject
to judicial review pursuant to the provisions of the Administrative Review Law,
being 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 10-9-1) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999)
§ 155.146 LOT SIZE/BULK VARIANCES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
applies unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LOT SIZE/BULK VARIANCE. A relaxation of the strict application of the lot
size and/or bulk requirements applicable to a particular lot or structure.
   (B)   Application. Every application for a lot size/bulk variance shall be
filed with the Village Clerk on a prescribed form. The application shall
contain sufficient information to allow the Board to make an informed decision.
   (C)   Hearing. The Board shall hold a public hearing on any variance
application not later than 30 days after its filing. At the hearing, any
interested party may appear and testify, either in person or by duly authorized
agent or attorney.
   (D)   Notice.
      (1)   Notice of the public hearing shall be given not more than 30 nor
less than 15 days before the hearing:
         (a)   By registered or certified mail to the applicant and to every
owner of property adjacent to the premises for which the variance is requested;
and
         (b)   By publication in a newspaper of general circulation within this
municipality.
      (2)   This notice shall indicate the time, date, and place of the
hearing, the particular location for which the variance is requested, and the
nature of the proposed variance.
   (E)   Standards for variance. The Board of Appeals shall not grant any lot
size/bulk variances unless they find that the proposed variance is consistent
with the general purpose of this chapter. More specifically, the Board shall
not recommend nor shall the Board decide upon a variance unless it determines,
based upon the evidence presented to it, that:
      (1)   The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if the
district regulations are strictly applied;
      (2)   The plight of the applicant is due to peculiar circumstances not of
his or her own making; and
      (3)   The variance, if granted, will not be detrimental to the public
health, safety, and welfare.
   (F)   Decision by Board of Appeals.
      (1)   The Board of Appeals shall be required to decide all applications
within 15 days after the final hearing thereon. The Board may reverse or
affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision, or
determination as, in its opinion, ought to be made in the premises, and to that
end, has all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken.
      (2)   A certified copy of the Board’s decision shall be transmitted to
the applicant or appellant and to the Code Official. Such decision shall be
binding upon the Code Official and observed by him or her, and he or she shall
be required to incorporate the terms and conditions of the same in the zoning
certificate to the applicant or appellant whenever a certificate is authorized
by the Board. The Board shall specify the terms of relief granted (if any) in
one statement and its findings of fact in another statement. The findings of
fact shall clearly indicate the Board’s reasons for granting or denying any
requested variance.
   (G)   Unauthorized variances (use variance). Under no circumstances shall
the Board of Appeals grant a variance to allow any use that is specifically or
by implication prohibited in the district involved. A USE VARIANCE constitutes
an amendment to this chapter, and may be obtained only in the manner set forth
at §
155.132.
(Prior Code, § 10-9-2) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999)
§ 155.147 FILING FEES.
   By resolution, the Village Board shall establish (and may periodically
amend) a schedule of filing fees for the various permits and procedures listed
in this chapter. Said fees are intended to defray the administrative costs
connected with the processing/conducting of such permits or procedures; the
fees do not constitute a tax or other revenue-raising device. All such fees
shall be paid by the applicant to the village and are nonrefundable. There
shall be a fee of $150, plus other applicable fees, mailing, and publication
costs. A current schedule of filing fees shall be maintained in the Code
Official’s office and on file with the Village Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 10-9-3) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who is convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be subject
to penalty as provided in §
10.99(A).
(Prior Code, § 10-7-6) (Ord. passed 4-19-1999)
APPENDIX A: APPLICATION FOR ZONING/BUILDING PERMIT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/01756e6727c15941cf5dd3124523ea8d674fb5f7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1151.png]
Village of Brighton
206 S. Main St. Brighton, IL 62012
(618) 372-8860
Building Information Sheet
The following is intended as information to help you with the completion of the
zoning permit.
•   Drawings (can be hand drawn), building plans, and/or specifications of any
structure which is the subject matter of the application must accompany the
application. Failure to provide such drawings, specifications, and plans will
result in the denial of your application.
•   No Permit will be issued until the zoning inspector and the zoning board
has determined the zoning classification of the area in which you intend to
build.
•   Incomplete or incorrect answers will result in denial of your application.
•   You must furnish the legal description along with your application, the
legal description shall be given as it is shown on your deed or title evidence
tax statement.
•   You shall commence no construction prior to having the building permit in
your possession, any construction work started prior to the issuance of the
permit may become a loss to you in the event the permit is denied.
The permit is not valid without the signature of the Village of Brighton Zoning
Inspector.
Permit #_________________
Paid_____________________
Application for Zoning/Building Permit
Applicant Information
Building Address:
_____________________________________________________________________________________
                                             County
Owner(s) as Appears on Title:
__________________________________________________________________________
Phone: ____________________________________________      Parcel ID#
__________________________________
Legal Description As On Deed. (Attach Copy If Necessary):
__________________________________________________
• Contractor: ____________________________________________   Phone:
_________________________________
Anticipated Starting Date: ________________________________   Anticipated
Finish Date: _______________________
Class of Work (NEW) (Addition) (Alteration) (Move)
_______________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________________
(New Homes - Water Department Tap on fee is $1,800. And $800 tap on fee for
sewer.)
(Demolition - All Sewer Lines must be capped and inspected by Water Department
(618) 372-8484)   
Fees
Minimum Fee for All Outbuildings, Storage Buildings, Roofs, Fences, Decks or
Additions is $20.
R1, Residential, Single-Family
New Home or Addition (R1), Size Area - SQ.Ft. ________________________X
$.08=__________________________
Outbuildings (New or Addition) (R1-Attached Garage, Storage Units) Size Area -
SQ.Ft. ___________X $.05=_______
Outbuildings (New or Addition) (R1-Detached Garage, Storage Units) Size Area -
SQ.Ft. ___________X $.05=_______
R2, Residential, Multi-Family
Outbuildings (New or Addition) (R2-Attached Garage, Storage Units) Size Area -
SQ.Ft. ___________X $.08=_______
Outbuildings (New or Addition) (R2-Detached Garage, Storage Units) Size Area -
SQ.Ft. ___________X $.08=_______
Apartment or Condominiums (New or Addition) (R2) Size Area - SQ.Ft.
________________X $.08= _______________
Business and Industrial District
Business and Industrial District SQ.FT. _________________________________X
$.10= __________________________
Outbuildings or Accessory Buildings (New or Addition) SQ.FT.
________________________X $.05=_______________
Fences and Decks - $20 Flat Fee
Fence Material: _________________________ Front or Back Yard:
____________________ How Many Gates: ________
Deck Size: ______________________________________
Specifications
Building Outside Dimensions
____________________________________________________________________________
Building Use
_________________________________________________________________________________________
Number of Floors ___________________ Number of Families _____________________
Number of Rooms__________
Footing Width _______________________ Thickness _____________________________
Depth ___________________
Reinforcing Size and Spacing
___________________________________________________________________________
Framing
Joist 1st Floor (Size and Spacing)
________________________________________________________________________
Joist 2nd Floor (Size and Spacing)
_______________________________________________________________________
Exterior Studs, (Size and Spacing)
_______________________________________________________________________
Interior Studs, (Size and Spacing)
________________________________________________________________________
Rafters and Trusses (Size and Spacing)
___________________________________________________________________
Exterior Walls Materials ___________________________________ Roofing Material
_____________________________
Lot Size ________________________________________ Resent Zoning Classification
___________________________
Number and Use of Buildings Presently On a Lot
___________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________________
Any Natural Drainage Across Property? Yes or No    Will Building Block Any
Natural Drainage? Yes or No
Distance to City Water ____________________________________ Sewer
______________________________________
Pole Barn
Length __________ Width ___________ Height ____________ Size of Doors
___________ Floor-Gravel or Concrete
                        (Circle one)
I/We hereby agree to perform the above-described work in accordance with the
plat, building plans, which are furnished, and specifications submitted
herewith and in strict compliance with all provisions of the Zoning Ordinance
and Regulations of the Village of Brighton and the State of Illinois.
Applicant(s) Signature:
____________________________________________________________ Date:
_______________
Approved by Zoning Inspector:
_____________________________________________________ Date: _______________
Denied by Zoning Inspector:
_______________________________________________________ Date: _______________
APPENDIX B: APPLICATION FOR SIGN PERMIT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/01756e6727c15941cf5dd3124523ea8d674fb5f7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1151.png]
A. Type of Sign Permit
Type:                                             For Office Use Only
                                             Sign A/P # ________________
Permanent Sign                                       Sign Tag#
_________________
                                             Electrical A/P# ____________
Limited Duration Sign                                    Sign Permit Fee:
$20.00
                                             Date: _____________________
B. Location of Sign
                                                                                                                 
Address: _____________________________________________________________________
Lot _________________________ Block ______________________________________
Parcel ____________________
If a limited duration sign is located within the public right-of-way, provide
block number of street
C. Applicant Information
Name of Applicant _______________________________________________________
Phone#______________________
Address _________________________________________ City
_______________________State_____ Zip __________
Contact Person ___________________________________________________________
Phone# ____________________
Sign Installer _______________________________________________________ License
# ________________________
Address _________________________________________________________________
Phone# ____________________
City ____________________________________________________________ State ______
Zip Code _______________
D. Permanent Sign Information
   On Building Wall               Freestanding                  Canopy
   Illuminated                  Non-illuminated
Sign message
_________________________________________________________________________________________
Dimensions: Sign Area _________________square feet   
      Length________ft_____inches   Width__________ft_____inches   Height__________ft_____inches
E. Limited Duration Sign Information
                                                                                                                   
LOCATION:                              TIME OF DISPLAY:
   Public Right-of-Way                        Weekends Only
      or                              or
   Private Property                        Other Time Period
Sign Message
_________________________________________________________________________________________
Sign Dimensions: _____________ Length _____________ Width ______________ Height
F. To Be Read by the Applicant
                                                                                                                   
Any information that the applicant has set forth in this application that is
false or misleading may result in the rejection of this application. A
condition for the issuance of this permit is that the proposed construction
will comply at all times with the plans as approved by all applicable
government agencies. I hereby declare and affirm, under the penalty of perjury,
that all matters and facts set forth in this sign permit application are true
and correct to the best of my knowledge, information and belief.
_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
Applicant’s Signature                  Date                 
AUTHORIZED AGENT AFFIDAVIT:
I hereby declare and affirm, under the penalty of perjury, that:
1.   I am duly authorized to make this permit application on behalf of:
_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
Print Property Owner’s Name                                 Phone
2.   The work proposed by this sign permit application is authorized by the
property owner, &
3.   All matters and facts set forth in this Affidavit are true and correct to
the best of my knowledge, information and belief.
_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
Original Authorized Agent’s Signature            Date                  Print
Name
         APPROVED                        DENIED
_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
ZONING INSPECTOR’S SIGNATURE                              DATE
APPENDIX C: APPLICATION FOR SPECIAL USE PERMIT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/01756e6727c15941cf5dd3124523ea8d674fb5f7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1151.png]
 
VILLAGE OF BRIGHTON               Application for
206 S Main St                        SPECIAL USE PERMIT
PO Box 458
Brighton, IL 62012
NAME OF APPLICANT: ____________________________________________________   Date:
_________________
PROPERTY OWNER: _______________________________________________________
Property Address:
___________________________________________________________   Zoned:
________________
Parcel ID Number: _____________________________________________
   Owner’s Mailing Address:
__________________________________________________________________________
   Owner’s Phone Number: __________________________________________________
Leasing Agency: _____________________________________________________________
   Agency Address: ________________________________________________________
   Acting Agent: ___________________________________________________________
   Phone Number: __________________________________________________________
Purpose of Permit:
_____________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
I understand that this application shall be referred to the Zoning Board for a
public hearing. A report will be sent to the Village Board for review.
I understand that I am personally liable for the costs necessary to provide the
public and adjacent property owners with notice of the hearing on this
application.
I understand that any permit granted pursuant to this application may be
subject to such protective restrictions, as the Village Board my deem
necessary.
                                          __________________________________________
                                             Signature of Applicant or Acting
Agent
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   VACATIONS
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
      
III.   REZONING
      
IV.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
V.   VILLAGE PROPERTY
      
VI.   STREETS
      
VII.   FRANCHISES
      
VIII.   AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: VACATIONS
 
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
825   5-1-   Vacating a 40-foot wide alley between Blocks 1 and 2 of James B. Pinkard’s
      2017   Addition, containing approximately 0.22 acres.
2017- 9-11-  Vacating an alley in exchange for $567 in compensation and creation of a
04    2017   permanent utility easement.
2018- 3-22-  Vacating a ten-foot wide alley off of Myrtle Street.
01    2018
            
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
608      2-3-2003    Annexing 64.16 acres in Section 24, Township 7 North.
642      4-4-2005    Annexing approximately 60 acres in Piasa Township.
643      4-4-2005    Annexing a part of Section 24, Township 7 North adjoining
                     Lots 1 and 4 of Randle’s Addition.
652      1-3-2006    Annexing four parcels of land located in Section 24,
                     Township 7 North.
653      6-5-2006    Annexing approximately 2.01 acres.
                    
 
TABLE III: REZONING
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
754      7-5-2014    Rezoning approximately 27.83 acres from agricultural to
                     business.
819      3-6-2017    Rezoning the real estate known and identified as 16453
                     State Hwy 111, Brighton, Illinois, to B-1.
                    
 
TABLE IV: SUBDIVISIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Res. 672 9-8-2008    Accepting a minor subdivision, known as Strack Addition.
                    
 
TABLE V: VILLAGE PROPERTY
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Agreement between Betsey Ann Association and the village
596      3-4-2002    for the village to accept 14.75 acres in exchange for
                     certain considerations.
                     Authorizing the sale of bicycles, bicycle parts, and
639      11-1-2004   miscellaneous property that have come into the possession
                     of the Police Department at public auction.
656      8-7-2006    Authorizing the Chief of Police to sell unnecessary and
                     excess items of personal property.
666      5-5-2008    Authorizing the sale of part of Lot No. 130 to the Church
                     of Christ.
787      10-5-2015   Authorizing the Director of Public Works to sell surplus
                     personal property.
824      4-17-2017   Approving land conveyances to the Union Pacific Railroad.
2022-05  5-2-2022    Authorizing the Mayor to sell certain personal property of
                     the village.
2023-13  12-4-2023   Authorizing the Mayor to sell certain personal property,
                     being several types of guns, of the village.
                     An ordinance approving the disposal of a 2012 Dodge
2024-10  9-30-2024   Charger owned by the Village of Brighton Macoupin and
                     Jersey Counties, Illinois.
                     An ordinance approving the disposal of a 2016 Chevrolet
2024-11  9-30-2024   Colorado owned by the Village of Brighton Macoupin and
                     Jersey Counties, Illinois.
                    
 
 
TABLE VI: STREETS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
655      7-10-2006   Renaming Brighton-Delhi Road to West Center Street and
                     setting the speed limit at 30 mph.
2024-14  11-4-2024   Authorizing the use of village owned, property and
                     streets.
                    
 
TABLE VII: FRANCHISES
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Res. 675      12-1-2008   Approving the transfer of a cable franchise from Raid
                          Acquisition Co., LLC to Almega Cable, Inc.
708           1-3-2011    Granting a cable franchise to Green County Partners,
                          Inc.
                          Approving the assignment of the cable franchise to
Res. 747      1-6-2014    Telecommunications Management, LLC, DBA NewWave
                          Communications.
786           10-5-2015   Renewing an electric utility franchise to American
                          Illinois.
2018-04       5-18-2018   Renewing a gas utility franchise to American
                          Illinois.
                         
 
TABLE VIII: AGREEMENTS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
612           4-7-2003    Economic incentive agreement to develop a Dollar
                          General Store.
633           8-2-2004    Authorizing the execution of a highway authority
                          agreement for leaking underground tank sites.
645           6-30-2005   Contract with Kolis Consulting for administrative
                          services.
669           5-5-2008    Agreement for the terms of discontinuation of water
                          services to Godfrey sewer users.
Res. 677      3-2-2009    Applying to participate in the National Flood
                          Insurance Program.
685           11-2-2009   Agreement for the terms of discontinuation of water
                          services to Piasa sewer users.
716           6-18-2011   Authorizing an agreement with the Environmental
                          Management Corporation.
Res. 752      6-2-2014    Authorizing a law enforcement mutual aid agreement.
753           7-7-2014    Reimbursement agreement with the Union Pacific
                          Railroad.
Res. 766      1-5-2015    Authorizing the execution of a highway authority
                          agreement for maintenance of West County Line Road.
Res. 769      3-2-2015    Approving water purchase agreement with Illinois-
                          American Water Company.
Res. 770      3-2-2015    Authorizing the execution of a law enforcement mutual
                          aid agreement.
Res. 784      10-5-2015   Electing to participate in the State Enterprise Zone
                          Program.
Res. 795      4-4-2016    Agreement for refundable utility adjustment.
803           8-1-2016    Agreement for repair of village streets.
816           11-7-2016   Agreeing to establish an intermodal enterprise zone.
822           - -2017     Approving an intergovernmental cooperation agreement.
823           4-13-2017   Approving pipeline crossing agreements.
Res. 2017-9   11-6-2017   Entering into a discontinuance agreement between the
                          village and the Illinois-American Water Company.
                          Authorizing the village to enter into an agreement to
2019-13       11-4-2019   modify repayment agreement with the State Department
                          of Transportation.
                          Authorizing the village to enter into an agreement to
2019-14       11-4-2019   modify repayment agreement with the State Department
                          of Transportation.
2019-15       12-2-2019   Authorizing the village to enter into an agreement
                          with Maguire Iron, Inc.
2023-4        3-6-2023    Entering into a development agreement for a Family
                          Dollar Store.
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Cite Code Section
ILCS Cite                   Code Section
5 ILCS 70/1.01              10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.02              10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.03              10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.04              10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.05              10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.07              10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.08              10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.09              10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.10              10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.11              10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.12              10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.15              10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.16              10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.17              10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.20              10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.24              10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.28              10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.29              10.02
5 ILCS 70/2                 10.04
5 ILCS 120                  34.05;
                            110.06
5 ILCS 140                  35.002
5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.        30.02
5 ILCS 315/3                34.01
10 ILCS 5/1-3               34.01
                            32.01;
20 ILCS 3305                32.03;
                            32.13
20 ILCS 3305/1 et seq.      32.15
35 ILCS 120/2-27            35.077
35 ILCS 200                 35.047
35 ILCS 630                 35.077
35 ILCS 635                 35.077
35 ILCS 636/5-1 et seq.     35.077
35 ILCS 638                 35.077\
50 ILCS 45                  35.047
50 ILCS 705                 32.33
65 ILCS 5                   10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2             10.02;
                            33.01
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1             10.99;
                            153.01
65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.1           10.99
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-5          30.01
65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-6          31.35
65 ILCS 5/3.1-25-5          30.01
65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-10         32.31
65 ILCS 5/3.1-45-15         30.05
65 ILCS 5/8-11-23           35.078
65 ILCS 5/11-1-3            35.076
65 ILCS 5/11-7-1            35.075
65 ILCS 5/11-12-5           154.01
65 ILCS 5/11-12-11          154.03
65 ILCS 5/11-12-12          153.01
65 ILCS 5/11-30-2           153.01
65 ILCS 5/11-30-8           153.01
65 ILCS 5/11-31-1           151.02
65 ILCS 5/11-31-2           153.01
65 ILCS 5/11-40-3.1         70.04
65 ILCS 5/11-74.3-6(b)      35.005
65 ILCS 5/11-74.3-6(c)      35.005
65 ILCS 5/11-74.3-6(d)      35.005
65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-5(a)      35.030
65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-5(c)      35.030
65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-5(d)      35.030
65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-5(d)(9)   35.030
65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-6(e)      35.030
65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-1 et seq. 35.020
65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-4-2       35.020
70 ILCS 605                 155.047
80 ILCS 305                 33.01
220 ILCS 5/9-221            35.077
220 ILCS 5/9-222            35.077
220 ILCS 5/9-222.1          35.077
230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.       111.03
235 ILCS                    112.16
235 ILCS 56-2(16)           Ch. 112, App. A
410 ILCS 130                35.078
510 ILCS 5                  94.01
510 ILCS 5/1 to 5/27        94.02
510 ILCS 70                 94.01
625 ILCS 5/1-188            10.02
625 ILCS 5/11-500 to 11-502 72.03
625 ILCS 5/11-1426.1        72.03
625 ILCS 5/12-709           72.03
720 ILCS 550/3              112.01
720 ILCS 570/120            112.01
720 ILCS 646/10             112.01
735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.    155.116;
                            155.145
                            154.20;
765 ILCS 205                154.23;
                            154.45;
                            154.48 
765 ILCS 205/1 et seq.      154.06
820 ILCS 192/15(p)          33.01
                            
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section Code Section
Prior Code Section Code Section
1-4-1              10.99
1-4-2              10.99
1-4-3              10.99
1-4-4              10.99
1-5-1              30.01
1-5-2              30.02
1-5-3              30.03
1-5-4              30.04
1-5-5              30.05
1-5-6              30.06
1-5-7              30.07
1-6-2              33.01
1-6-3              33.02
1-6-4              33.03
1-6-5              33.04
1-6-6              33.05
1-6A-1             31.15
1-6A-2             31.16
1-6A-4             31.18
1-6A-5             31.19
1-6A-6             31.20
1-6A-7             31.17
1-6B-1             31.35
1-6B-2             31.35
1-6B-3             31.37
1-6B-4             31.38
1-7A-1             35.075
1-7B-1             35.076
1-7C-1             35.005
1-7C-2             35.005
1-7C-3             35.005
1-7D-1             35.077
1-7D-2             35.077
1-7D-3             35.077
1-7D-4             35.077
1-7D-5             35.077
1-7D-6             35.077
1-8-1              34.01
1-8-2              34.02
1-8-3              34.03
1-8-4              34.04
1-8-5              34.05;
                   34.99
1-8-6              34.99
1-9-1              35.004
1-9-2              35.004
1-9-3              35.004
1-9-4              35.004
1-9-5              35.004
1-9-6              35.004
1-9-7              35.004
1-9-8              35.004
1-9-9              35.004
1-9-10             35.004
1-9-11             35.004
1-9-12             35.004
1-9-13             35.004
1-9-14             35.004
1-9-15             35.004
1-10-1             35.045
1-10-2             35.046
1-10-3             35.047
1-10-4             35.048
1-10-5             35.049
1-10-6             35.050
1-10-7             35.051
1-10-8             35.052
1-10-9             35.053
1-10-10            35.054
1-10-11            35.055
1-10-12            35.056
1-10-13            35.057
1-10-14            35.058
1-10-15            35.059
1-10-16            35.060
1-10-17            35.061
1-10-18            35.062
1-11-1             93.01
1-11-2             93.02
1-11-3             93.03
1-11-4             93.99
1-12-1             35.020
1-12-2             35.021
1-12-3             35.022
1-12-4             35.023
1-12-5             35.024
1-12-6             35.025
1-12-7             35.026
1-12-8             35.027
1-12-9             35.028
1-12-10            35.029
1-12-11            35.030
1-12-12            35.031
1-12-13            35.032
1-13-1             35.002
1-13-2             35.002
1-13-3             35.002
1-13-4             35.002
1-13-5             35.002
2-1-1              32.01
2-1-2              32.02
2-1-3              32.03
2-1-4              32.04
2-1-5              32.05
2-1-6              32.06
2-1-7              32.07
2-1-8              32.08
2-1-9              32.09
2-1-10             32.10
2-1-11             32.11
2-1-12             32.12
2-1-13             32.13
2-1-14             32.14
2-1-15             32.15
2-1-16             32.16;
                   32.99
2-2-1              31.50
2-2-2              31.51
2-2-3              31.52
2-2-4              31.53
2-2-5              31.54
2-2-6              31.55
2-2-7              31.56
2-2-8              31.57
3-1-1              111.01
3-1-2              111.02;
                   111.99
3-2-1              112.15
3-2-2              112.16
3-2-3              112.17
3-2-4              112.18
3-2-5              112.19
3-2-6              112.20
3-2-7              94.32;
                   112.21
3-2-8              94.28;
                   112.22
3-2-9              112.23
3-2-10             112.24
3-2-11             112.25;
                   112.99
3-2-12             112.26
3-2-13             112.99
3-3-1              113.01
3-3-2              113.02
3-3-3              113.03
3-3-4              113.04
3-3-5              113.05
3-3-6              113.99
3-4-7              112.40
3-4-8              112.41;
                   112.99
3-4-9              112.42;
                   112.99
3-4-10             112.43
4-1-1              91.01
4-1-2              91.02
4-1-3              91.03
4-1-4              91.04
4-1-5              91.05
4-1-6              91.05
4-1-7              91.05
4-1-8              91.08
4-1-9              91.09
4-1-10             91.10
4-1-11             91.11;
                   91.99
4-1-12             91.12
4-1-13             91.99
4-2-1              90.01
4-2-2              90.01
4-2-3              90.99
4-3-1              92.01
4-3-2              92.02
4-3-3              92.03
4-3-4              92.04
4-3-5              92.05
4-3-6              92.06
4-3-7              92.07
4-3-8              92.08
4-3-9              92.99
4-4-1              112.01
4-4-2              112.01
4-4-3              112.99
4-5-1              112.02
4-5-2              112.02
4-5-3              112.02
4-5-4              112.99
4-6-1              90.03
4-6-2              90.03
4-6-3              90.03
4-6-4              90.99
5-1-1              32.30
5-1-2              32.31
5-1-3              32.32
5-1-4              32.33
5-2-1              32.45
5-2-2              32.46
5-2-3              32.47
5-2-4              32.48
5-2-5              32.49
5-2-6              32.50
5-2-7              32.51
5-2-8              32.52
5-3-1              130.01
5-3-2              130.02
5-3-3              130.03
5-3-4              130.04
5-3-5              130.05
5-3-6              130.99
5-4-1              130.06
5-4-2              130.06
5-4-3              130.99
5-5-1              94.01
5-5-2              94.02
5-5-3              94.03
5-5-4              94.04
5-5-5              94.05
5-5-6              94.06
5-5-7              94.07
5-5-8              94.08
5-5-9              94.09
5-5-10             94.10
5-5-11             94.11
5-5-12             94.12
5-5-13             94.13
5-5-14             94.14
5-5-15             94.15
5-5-16             94.16
5-5-17             94.17
5-5-18             94.18
5-5-19             94.19
5-5-20             94.20
5-5-21             94.21
5-5-22             94.22
5-5-23             94.23
5-5-24             94.24
5-5-25             94.25
5-5-26             94.26
5-5-27             94.27
5-5-28             94.28
5-5-29             94.29
5-5-30             94.30
5-5-31             94.31
5-5-32             94.99
6-1-1              70.01
6-1-2              70.02;
                   70.99
6-1-3              70.03;
                   70.99
6-2-1              71.01
6-2-2              71.02
6-2-3              71.03
6-2-4              71.04
6-2-5              71.05
6-2-6              71.99
6-3-1              Ch. 73, Sched. I
6-3-2              Ch. 73, Sched. II
6-3-3              Ch. 73, Sched. III
6-3-4              Ch. 73, Sched. IV
6-3-5              Ch. 73, Sched. V
7-1-1              152.01;
                   152.99
7-1-2              152.02;
                   152.99
7-2-1              152.15
7-2-2              152.16
7-2-3              152.17
7-2-4              152.18
7-2-5              152.99
7-3-2              152.30
7-4-1              152.45
7-4-2              152.46
7-4-3              152.47
7-4-4              152.48
7-4-5              152.49
7-4-6              152.50
7-4-7              152.51
7-4-8              152.99
8-1-1              50.01
8-1-2              50.02
8-1-3              50.55
8-1-4              50.56
8-1-5              50.57
8-1-6              50.58
8-1-7              50.59
8-1-9              50.60
8-1-10             50.61
8-1-11             50.62;
                   50.99
8-1-12             50.63;
                   50.99
8-1-13             50.03;
                   50.99
8-2-7              50.99
8-3-1              50.15
8-3-2              50.16
8-3-4              50.17
8-3-5              50.18
8-3-6              50.19;
                   50.99
8-3-7              50.20;
                   50.99
8-3-8              50.21;
                   50.99
8-4-1              50.35
8-4-2              50.36
8-4-3              50.37
8-4-4              50.38
8-4-5              50.39
8-4-6              50.40
8-4-7              50.41;
                   50.99
8-5-1              50.04
8-5-2              50.99
8-5-3              50.04
9-1-1              151.01
9-3-1              153.01
9-3-2              153.02
9-3-3              153.03
9-3-4              153.04
9-3-5              153.05
9-3-6              153.06
9-3-7              153.07
9-3-8              153.08
9-3-9              153.09
9-3-10             153.10
9-3-11             153.11
9-3-12             153.99
9-3-13             153.12
9-3-14             153.13
9-4-1              151.30
9-4-2              151.31
9-4-3              151.32
9-4-4              151.33
9-4-5              151.34;
                   151.99
9-4-6              151.35
9-4-7              151.36
10-1-1             155.001
10-1-2             155.002
10-1-3             155.003
10-1-4             155.004
10-2-1             155.005
10-2-2             155.005
10-3-1             155.020
10-3-2             155.021
10-3-3             155.022
10-3-4             155.023
10-3-5             155.024
10-3-6             155.025
10-3-7             155.026
10-3-8             155.027
10-3-9             155.028
10-3-10            155.029
10-3-11            155.030
10-3-12            155.031
10-3-13            155.032
10-4-1             155.045
10-4-2             155.046
10-4-3             155.047
10-4-4             155.048
10-4-5             155.049
10-4-6             155.050
10-4-7             155.051
10-4-8             155.052
10-4-9             155.053
10-4-10            155.054
10-4-11            155.055
10-4-12            155.056
10-4-13            155.057
10-4-14            155.058
10-4-15            155.059
10-4-16            155.060
10-4-17            155.061
10-5-1             155.075
10-5-2             155.076
10-5-3             155.077
10-5-4             155.078
10-5-5             155.079
10-6-1             155.090
10-6-2             155.091
10-6-3             155.092
10-6-4             155.093
10-6-5             155.094
10-6-6             155.095
10-6-7             155.096
10-7-1             155.110
10-7-2             155.111
10-7-3             155.112
10-7-4             155.113
10-7-5             155.114
10-7-6             155.115;
                   155.999
10-7-7             155.116
10-8-1             155.130
10-8-2             155.131
10-8-3             155.132
10-9-1             155.145
10-9-2             155.146
10-9-3             155.147
11-1-1             154.01
11-1-2             154.02
11-1-3             154.03
11-1-4             154.04
11-1-6             154.05
11-2-1             154.06
11-2-2             154.06
11-3-1             154.20
11-3-2             154.21
11-3-3             154.22
11-3-4             154.23
11-3-5             154.24
11-3-6             154.25
11-3-7             154.25
11-3-8             154.27
11-3-9             154.28
11-3-10            154.29
11-3-11            154.30
11-3-12            154.31
11-3-13            154.32
11-3-14            154.33
11-3-15            154.34
11-4-1             154.45
11-4-2             154.46
11-4-3             154.47
11-4-4             154.48
11-4-5             154.49
11-4-6             154.50
11-5-1             154.65
11-5-2             154.66
11-5-3             154.67
11-5-4             154.99
33-3-1             152.03
33-3-2             152.03
33-3-3             152.03
33-3-4             152.03
33-3-5             152.03
33-3-6             152.03
33-3-7             152.03
33-3-8             152.03
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
600      - -         151.03
611      3-3-2003    30.02
672      9-8-2008    TSO Table IV
675      12-1-2008   TSO Table VII
677      3-2-2009    TSO Table VIII
747      1-6-2014    TSO Table VII
-        2-3-2014    30.06
752      6-2-2014    TSO Table VIII
766      1-5-2015    TSO Table VIII
769      3-2-2015    TSO Table VIII
770      3-2-2015    TSO Table VIII
784      10-5-2015   TSO Table VIII
785      10-5-2015   35.001
795      4-4-2016    TSO Table VIII
2017-9   11-6-2017   TSO Table VIII
R01-2020 10-8-2020   30.05;
                     30.06
R2021-03 9-7-2021    33.01
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
511       - -         Ch. 73, Sched. III
516       - -         Ch. 73, Sched. I
154       4-2-1940    90.01;
                      90.99
157       11-7-1940   152.01;
                      152.99
209       5-5-1942    70.03;
                      70.99
165A      6-8-1943    30.02
185       5-3-1948    111.02;
                      111.99
                      113.01;
                      113.02;
186       5-3-1948    113.05;
                      113.99;
                      Ch. 113, App. A
247       12-27-1958  Ch. 73, Sched. IV
274       6-18-1962   50.01
293       9-8-1965    151.01
304       7-11-1966   111.01
305       7-11-1966   112.40 
                      112.43
306       1-3-1967    113.04
308       4-19-1967   50.19;
                      50.99
335       7-6-1970    35.075
336       7-6-1970    35.076
344       10-4-1971   33.03
348       5-1-1972    50.57
378       2-2-1976    130.06;
                      130.99
                      91.10;
                      91.12;
410       12-3-1979   130.02;
                      130.03;
                      130.05;
                      130.99
414A      3-2-1981    33.04
418       6-1-1981    50.61
                      152.15;
422       12-7-1981   152.17;
                      152.18;
                      152.99
426       5-3-1982    32.30
                      32.01-
427       6-7-1982    32.16;
                      32.99
                      50.35-
428       7-1-1982    50.41;
                      50.99
440       6-20-1983   50.63
                      32.46-
442       8-1-1983    32.48;
                      32.50-
                      32.52
446       1-3-1984    50.55
                      50.15-
                      50.18;
452       7-11-1984   50.20;
                      50.21;
                      50.99
455       11-5-1984   Ch. 73, Sched. II
458       3-4-1985    50.59
466       11-4-1985   50.02
467       1-6-1986    50.99
                      71.01;
                      91.02-
471       4-7-1986    91.04;
                      91.06-
                      91.09;
                      91.99
                      71.01-
480       11-3-1986   71.04;
                      71.99;
                      Ch. 73, Sched. II
481       2-2-1987    Ch. 73, Sched. II
487       11-2-1987   32.31
490       1-4-1988    Ch. 73, Sched. I
497       2-6-1989    50.64;
                      50.99
506       6-4-1990    70.02;
                      70.99
511       1- -1991    71.05
513       6-3-1991    32.45;
                      32.49
529       6-7-1993    30.07
530       7-6-1993    31.37
535       3-7-1994    50.58
540       12-5-1994   33.02
541       12-5-1994   33.01
556       6-16-1997   33.01
562       7-7-1997    Ch. 73, Sched. II
567       2-9-1998    50.61
                      155.001-
                      155.005;
                      155.020-
                      155.032;
                      155.045-
                      155.060;
                      155.075-
                      155.079;
-         4-19-1999   155.090-
                      155.096;
                      155.110-
                      155.116;
                      155.130-
                      155.132;
                      155.145-
                      155.147;
                      155.999
575       12-6-1999   10.99
577       12-6-1999   35.004
581       10-23-2000  31.20
585       2-5-2001    35.045-
                      35.062
588       7-2-2001    130.04
596       3-4-2002    TSO Table V
597       4-1-2002    Ch. 73, Sched. I
607       1-6-2003    32.32
608       2-3-2003    TSO Table II
609       3-3-2003    33.05
                      93.01-
610       3-3-2003    93.03;
                      93.99
612       4-7-2003    TSO Table VIII
616       11-3-2003   Ch. 73, Sched. II
619       5-24-2004   155.046;
                      155.047
                      30.06;
621       5-24-2004   30.07;
                      31.18
622       5-24-2004   113.03
                      91.05;
623       5-24-2004   91.11;
                      91.99
624       5-24-2004   152.30
627       5-24-2004   10.99
                      34.01-
631       6-7-2004    34.05;
                      34.99
632       8-2-2004    50.04;
                      50.99
633       8-2-2004    TSO Table VIII
639       11-1-2004   TSO Table V
642       4-4-2005    TSO Table II
643       4-4-2005    TSO Table II
645       6-30-2005   TSO Table VIII
652       1-3-2006    TSO Table II
653       6-5-2006    TSO Table II
655       7-10-2006   TSO Table VI
656       8-7-2006    TSO Table V
659       5-7-2007    50.57
665       5-5-2008    152.02;
                      152.99
666       5-5-2008    TSO Table V
669       5-5-2008    TSO Table VIII
671       9-8-2008    50.56
                      153.01-
676       3-2-2009    153.13;
                      153.99
677       4-6-2009    155.005
679       7-6-2009    91.06
685       11-2-2009   TSO Table VIII
687       2-2-2010    155.061
                      94.01-
688       3-1-2010    94.31;
                      94.99
691       6-7-2010    Ch. 73, Sched. I
692       7-12-2010   35.005
702       9-7-2010    50.60
703       9-7-2010    35.005
708       1-3-2011    TSO Table VII
711       5-2-2011    30.06
712       5-2-2011    30.07
713       5-2-2011    35.005
714       5-2-2011    33.02
716       6-18-2011   TSO Table VIII
721       4-2-2012    50.62
720       5-5-2012    35.077
722       5-7-2012    32.33
                      112.15-
                      112.18;
723       6-4-2012    112.21-
                      112.26;
                      112.99
729       10-1-2012   50.03;
                      50.99
730       10-4-2012   31.17
725       7-1-2013    112.01;
                      112.99
726       7-1-2013    112.02;
                      112.99
                      154.01-
                      154.06;
                      154.20-
                      154.34;
731       7-1-2013    154.45-
                      154.50;
                      154.65-
                      154.67;
                      154.99
736       7-1-2013    112.22
737       8-5-2013    31.50-
                      31.57
738       8-5-2013    35.020-
                      35.032
741       9-4-2013    35.003
                      152.45-
743       10-7-2013   152.51;
                      152.99
                      155.005;
748       4-7-2014    155.020;
                      155.031;
                      155.032
749       4-7-2014    155.056
754       7-5-2014    TSO Table III
753       7-7-2014    TSO Table VIII
755       7-7-2014    50.59;
                      50.63
759       12-1-2014   33.01;
                      33.02
771       5-4-2015    Ch. 73, Sched. V
773       6-1-2015    Ch. 73, Sched. II
786       10-5-2015   TSO Table VII
787       10-5-2015   TSO Table V
798       6-6-2016    112.20
799       6-6-2016    33.01
803       8-1-2016    TSO Table VIII
804       9-6-2016    150.01
805       9-6-2016    Ch. 73, Sched. VI
                      92.01-
810       10-3-2016   92.08;
                      92.99
811       10-3-2016   90.03;
                      90.99
816       11-7-2016   TSO Table VIII
822       - -2017     TSO Table VIII
                      151.30-
817       1-9-2017    151.36;
                      151.99
819       3-6-2017    TSO Table III
821       4-3-2017    35.002
823       4-13-2017   TSO Table VIII
824       4-17-2017   TSO Table V
825       5-1-2017    TSO Table I
2017-04   9-11-2017   TSO Table I
                      151.15-
2018-02   2-7-2018    151.17;
                      151.99
2018-01   3-22-2018   TSO Table I
2018-12   3-22-2018   155.056
2018-04   5-18-2018   TSO Table VII
2018-05   6-4-2018    31.01
2018-06   6-4-2018    51.01-
                      51.03
2018-09   11-5-2018   33.06
2019-04   6-3-2019    151.02
2019-10   9-3-2019    31.38
2019-11-B 9-26-2019   35.078
2019-13   11-4-2019   TSO Table VIII
2019-14   11-4-2019   TSO Table VIII
2019-15   12-2-2019   TSO Table VIII
2020-05   5-4-2020    111.03;
                      111.99
2020-07   5-4-2020    Ch. 73, Sched. II
2020-08   5-4-2020    30.06
2020-04   10-5-2020   31.17
                      72.01-
2021-01   1-4-2021    72.07;
                      72.99
2021-08   1-4-2021    112.18
                      110.01-
2021-02   3-1-2021    110.12;
                      110.99
2021-07   9-7-2021    50.58
2021-05   10-4-2021   50.61
2022-05   5-2-2022    TSO Table V
2022-06   6-6-2022    33.02
2022-08   7-5-2022    112.18
2022-09   8-1-2022    112.24
2022-10   9-12-2022   33.02
2022-14   11-7-2022   33.01
2023-1    1-9-2023    33.02
2023-2    2-6-2023    50.60
2023-5    2-6-2023    72.05
2023-06   2-6-2023    112.20
2023-7    2-6-2023    110.07
2023-4    3-6-2023    TSO Table VIII
2023-8    3-6-2023    30.02
2023-9    4-3-2023    70.04;
                      70.99
2022-02   4-4-2023    111.01
2023-11   10-2-2023   50.61;
                      50.62
2023-12   12-4-2023   33.01
2023-13   12-4-2023   TSO Table V
2024-01   3-4-2024    94.15
2024-02   5-6-2024    130.20 -
                      130.24
2024-03   5-6-2024    151.04
2024-05   7-1-2024    Adopting Ordinance
2024-07   8-5-2024    50.62
2024-08   8-5-2024    31.03
2024-09   10-7-2024   30.06
2024-10   9-30-2024   TSO Table V
2024-11   9-30-2024   TSO Table V
2024-12   11-4-2024   91.13
2024-14   11-4-2024   TSO Table VI
2024-15   12-2-2024   35.079
2024-17   11-4-2024   31.15
2025-3    4-7-2025    33.01
2025-4    4-7-2025    155.055
2025-5    4-7-2025    30.02
2025-06   5-5-2025    31.15
2025-09   6-5-2025    30.07
                     
 
 
