VILLAGE CODE
of
BROADVIEW, ILLINOIS
2000
Code current through:
Ord. CO-2025-6, passed 4-21-2025
Â 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â This code of the Village of Broadview, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance CO-2025-6, passed April 21, 2025.
Ordinances of the Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions
of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular
provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â American Legal Publishing
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
Â 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 00-17
AN ORDINANCE GOVERNING THE COMPILATION OF THE VILLAGE CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF
BROADVIEW
Â Â Â WHEREAS, the Village of Broadview has compiled and updated its Village Code;
and
Â Â Â WHEREAS, the Village of Broadview wishes to continually supplement the
Village Code Book as needed in order to keep the Village Code Book current.
Â Â Â NOW, THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED by the President and Board of Trustees of the
Village of Broadview, Cook County, Illinois, as follows:
Â Â Â Section 1.Â Â Â From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the
Village Code of the Village of Broadview, Illinois being prepared by Sterling
Codifiers, Inc., containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general
nature together with the changes made of said ordinances, under the direction
of the governing body of the Village, shall be accepted in all courts without
question as the official code and law of the Village as enacted by the
President and Board of Trustees.
Â Â Â Section 2.Â Â Â There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official Village Code is identified by the proper catchline and is
inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which
shall be maintained in the office of the Village Clerk, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
Â Â Â Section 3.Â Â Â All ordinances of a general nature included in this official
Village Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision
and the fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the
governing body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous
effectiveness of ordinances included in said official Village Code. All
ordinances of a special nature, such as tax levy ordinances for specific
properties, and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the Village Code.
Such ordinances are not intended to be included in the official Village Code.
Â Â Â Section 4.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code, in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the Village to be
misrepresented thereby.
Â Â Â Section 5.Â Â Â All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith,
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
Â Â Â Section 6.Â Â Â This ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be
recorded and shall be in force and effect from and after its passage, approval
and publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
ADOPTED by the President and Board of Trustees of the Village of Broadview,
Cook County, Illinois on December 18, 2000, by the following roll call vote as
follows:
Â                   YES  NO ABSENT PRESENT
D'Anza              Â Â ÂÂ  Â      Â 
Gaines              Â Â ÂÂ  Â      Â 
Johnson             Â Â ÂÂ  Â      Â 
Miller              Â Â ÂÂ  Â      Â 
Payne               Â Â ÂÂ  Â      Â 
Tyl                 Â Â ÂÂ  Â      Â 
(President Vicenik) Â Â ÂÂ  Â      Â 
TOTAL               Â Â ÂÂ  Â      Â 
Â 
APPROVED by the Village President on December 18, 2000.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the Board of Trustees, this Village Code is hereby declared to
be and shall hereafter constitute the Official Village Code of Broadview. This
Village Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the BROADVIEW VILLAGE
CODE, and it is hereby published by authority of the Board of Trustees and
shall be kept up-to-date as provided in Section
1-1-3 of this Chapter under the direction of the Village Attorney, acting for
said Village Board of Trustees. Any reference to the number of any section
contained herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same
number, its appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty
clause relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is
made to this Village Code by title in any legal document. (1987 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the Village of general and permanent effect, except
the excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Title. (1987 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this Code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute a
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this Code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this Code.
(1987 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
Village Board. The Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the Clerk. Any
person having in his custody an official copy of this Code shall make every
effort to maintain this Code in an up-to-date and efficient manner. He shall
see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the Village
Clerk. Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the Village and shall
be returned to the office of the Clerk when directed so to do by order of the
Village Board. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the Village passed prior to the adoption of this Code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this Code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; industrial development bond
ordinances; ordinances relating to elections; ordinances relating to the
transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the Village; and all special
ordinances. (1987 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be replaced by virtue of the preceding Section, excepting as
this Code may contain provisions for such matters, in which case this Code
shall be considered as amending such ordinances in respect to such provisions
only. (1987 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance,
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that proceedings thereafter shall conform to the ordinance in
force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new ordinance, such
provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied to any judgment
announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the Village herein
repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this Code
shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
Village under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this Code.
When any ordinance repealing any former ordinance, clause or provision shall be
itself repealed, such repeal shall not be construed so as to revive such former
ordinance, clause or provision, unless it shall be therein so expressly
provided. (1987 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be unconstitutional
or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of
this Code, or any part thereof. The Village Board of Trustees hereby declares
that it would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or
phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this Code importing the plural number is
used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any single
matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although distributive
words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or person is
referred to in this Code by words importing the singular number only, or the
masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and females as well as
males and bodies corporate shall be applied to any section of this Code which
contains any express provision excluding such construction or where the subject
matter or content may be repugnant thereto.
The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the Village has been
changed in the content of this Code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the Village's ordinances is not meant to amend
the passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1987 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
ACTION: Shall include suits, prosecutions and all judicial proceedings.
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
BOARD OR THE BOARD: The President and Board of Trustees of the Village of
Broadview, Illinois.
CODE: The Municipal Code of Broadview, Illinois, and amendments thereto.
COMPUTATION OF TIME: The time within which any act provided by law is to be
done shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last,
unless the last day is Sunday or a legal holiday, and then it shall also be
excluded. If the day succeeding such Sunday or holiday is also a holiday or a
Sunday, then such succeeding day shall also be excluded.
COUNTY OR THE COUNTY: Cook County in the State of Illinois.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Village employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words, "of the
Village of Broadview".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the Village for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year of the Village shall commence on May 1 and
terminate on April 30 in each and every year.
IN THE VILLAGE OR WITHIN THE VILLAGE: Mean and include all territory over which
the Village now has or shall hereafter acquire jurisdiction for the exercise of
its police powers or other regulatory powers.
JOINT AUTHORITY: Words purporting to give a joint authority to three (3) or
more public officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such
authority to a majority of such officers or persons.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MAYOR: See definition of Village President.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense for which a sentence to a term of imprisonment in
other than a penitentiary for less than one year may be imposed.
MONTH: A calendar month.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the Village; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a
hazard to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or
to the community.
OATH: Shall be deemed to include an affirmation and the word "sworn" shall be
construed to include the word "affirmed".
OCCUPANT OR TENANT: As applied to a building or land, these terms mean any
person who holds a written or an oral lease of or actually occupies the whole
or a part of such building or land, either alone or with others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICER: Whenever the title of any Village officer is used, it shall be
construed as if the words "of the Village of Broadview" followed it.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OR, AND: "Or" may be read "and" and "and" may be read "or", if the sense
requires it.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, this term shall include any part
owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant of
the whole or part, or the holder of any beneficial interest, of such building
or land.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, corporation, joint stock association or
any city or state or any subdivision thereof; and, includes any trustee,
receiver, assignee or personal representative thereof.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every species of property, except "real property"
as defined by this Section.
PRECEDING, FOLLOWING: Next before and next after, respectively.
PROPERTY: This term shall include real and personal property.
REAL PROPERTY: This term shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments and
shall embrace all chattels real.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, this term shall be understood
to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small
quantities direct to the consumer.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral lines
of a roadway and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
STATE OR THE STATE: The State of Illinois.
STREET: The entire width between property lines of every way or place of
whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the public, as a
matter of right for purposes of vehicular traffic. This term shall include
alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, this term shall include any person
who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or
with others.
VILLAGE OR THE VILLAGE: The Village of Broadview in Cook County, State of
Illinois, except as otherwise provided.
VILLAGE PRESIDENT: May be referred to as Mayor of the Village. The term
"Village President" as used in this Code or motion or other action of the
corporate authorities shall be construed as meaning the Mayor; and the term
"Mayor" wherever so used shall be construed to mean the Village President.
The title "Mayor" as used in the minutes of the meetings of the corporate
authorities or any other official document shall be construed as meaning
"Village President".
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, such
terms shall be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles
or things in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it shall be in
the proper handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his
proper mark.
YEAR: The word "year" means a calendar year unless otherwise expressed. (1987
Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the Village or any rule or
regulation promulgated pursuant thereto, any act is prohibited or is made or
declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the
violation of any such provision of this Code or any ordinance shall be punished
by a fine not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00). A violation of any provision of this Code, or any
ordinance, shall constitute a separate offense for each day such violation
continues 1 .
In addition to, or as an alternative to the fines and penalties enumerated
above, the court, in its discretion, may impose court supervision upon the
defendant for a period not to exceed six (6) months upon such terms and
conditions as said court shall deem proper. The supervision and conditions
therefor shall be as provided by State law 2 . (1987 Code; amd. Ord. 2019-15,
6-17-2019)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1.
2 2. 730 ILCS 515-6-3.1 et seq.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this Code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced. (1987 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the Board of Trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 5
VILLAGE PRESIDENT
SECTION:
1-5-1: Election, Commencement Of Term, Term Of Office
1-5-2: Bond
1-5-3: Salaries
1-5-4: Powers And Duties
1-5-1: ELECTION, COMMENCEMENT OF TERM, TERM OF OFFICE:
The Village President shall be elected for a term of four (4) years and shall
be President of the Board of Trustees as is provided by statute. The term of
the Village President shall commence at the first regular or special meeting in
the month of June following the election. (Ord. 2015-17, 4-20-2015)
1-5-2: BOND:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the President shall make general
requirement for bond. (1987 Code)
1-5-3: SALARIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Village President, Full Time: The position of Village President shall
be a full-time position. The salary of the duly elected full time Village
President shall be one-hundred ten thousand dollars and 00/00 ($110,000.00) per
year with an annual cost of living increase at the start of each fiscal year
thereafter. Said salary and annual increase shall be effective as of May 1,
2025. The Village President shall also be reimbursed for expenses related to
Village business or incurred on behalf of the Village. Travel expenses shall be
paid and/or reimbursed consistent with Village policy. A â€œfull time Village
Presidentâ€ shall be defined as one who devotes a minimum of forty (40) hours
per week to the position during the regular office hours of the Village
(exclusive of evening meetings), except for vacations and holidays.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Benefits: As part of the overall compensation package for the office of
Village President, the Village President may elect to participate in the
Village's health, dental, vision, life, and any other insurance policies
available to employees of the Village on the same terms as other non-union
employees of the Village. The Village President shall also be allowed to
participate in the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund, if eligible.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Local Liquor Control Commissioner 1: Pursuant to State law, the salary
of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner/Village President shall be six
thousand dollars and 00/00 ($6,000.00) per year.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Effective Date Of Salary: The salary for the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner provided for herein shall be effective as of May 1, 2025, and
shall commence for the Village President elected in the 2025 election.
(Ord. 2015-17, 4-20-2015; amd. Ord. CO-2024-6, 4-25-2024)
1-5-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Generally: The President shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the
Village and shall perform all such duties as may be required of him by statute,
by this Code or by ordinance. The President shall have supervision over all of
the executive officers, appointed officers or persons otherwise employed or
appointed or retained by the Village and shall have the power and authority to
inspect all books and records kept by any officer of the Village at any
reasonable time, keep or cause to be kept all necessary records to show the
administrative activities under the President's supervision, and shall have
control over and custody of all Village property not assigned by law or
ordinance to some other Village officer or employee. The President shall have
the right to assign and delegate the supervisory powers set forth above. (Ord.
2017-102, 5-1-2017)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Assign Duties, Settle Disputes: The Village President shall have the
power to assign to any officer any duty which is not assigned by this Code or
by ordinance to some other specific officer, and he shall determine disputes or
questions relating to the respective powers or duties of officers.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â President Pro Tem; Temporary Chairman: See the provisions set forth in
section
1-6-4, "Presiding Officer, Voting Powers; President Pro Tem; Temporary
Chairman", of this title. (Ord. 13-35, 5-20-2013)
CHAPTER 6
VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Election, Functions
1-6-2: Commencement Of Terms, Oath, Salary, Expenses
1-6-3: Meetings
1-6-4: Presiding Officer, Voting Powers; President Pro Tem; Temporary Chairman
1-6-5: Rules Of Order
1-6-6: Arrest Powers
1-6-7: Electronic Attendance At Meetings
1-6-8: Legislative Counsel
1-6-1: ELECTION, FUNCTIONS:
The Board of Trustees, consisting of six (6) members, shall be elected to
office as provided by statute 1 . This Board shall be the Legislative
Department of the Village government, and shall perform such duties and have
such powers as may be authorized by statute 2 . (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3-5-3.
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/3-12-3.
1-6-2: COMMENCEMENT OF TERMS, OATH, SALARY, EXPENSES:
Members of the Board of Trustees shall take and subscribe to such oath as may
be prescribed by statute. The terms of members of the Board of Trustees shall
commence at the first regular or special meeting in the month of May following
the election. Compensation for each duly elected Village Trustee is established
at seven thousand eight hundred dollars and 00/00 ($7,800.00) annually, to be
paid monthly, per year with an annual cost of living increase at the start of
each fiscal year thereafter. Said compensation and annual increase compensation
shall take effect as of May 1, 2025. Each Trustee shall also be reimbursed for
expenses related to Village business or incurred on behalf of the Village.
Travel expenses shall be paid and/or reimbursed consistent with Village policy.
The Village Trustees shall also be allowed to participate in the Illinois
Municipal Retirement Fund, if eligible.
(Ord. 2015-17, 4-20-2015; amd. Ord. CO-2024-6, 4-25-2024)
1-6-3: MEETINGS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Regular Meetings: The regular meetings of the Board of Trustees shall
be held on the first and third Mondays in each calendar month of each year or
pursuant to the meeting dates as provided for in the schedule adopted by the
Village Board, at the hour of six thirty o'clock (6:30) P.M. The second meeting
of the month shall be attended by all department heads who are expected to
present their monthly written and verbal reports to the Village Board. Items to
be included on the agenda for each regular meeting shall be determined by the
Clerk, except that any item(s) may be included by written order of the
President or any three (3) members of the Board of Trustees.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Committee Meetings: Other committee meetings are to be scheduled as
needed by the committee Chairs or at such other times as the committee's
business requires, pursuant to the provisions of the Open Meetings Act.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by any three (3)
Trustees, or by the President, upon proper written notice with the proposed
agenda, within the time period prescribed by the Open Meetings Act.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Open Meetings Act: All meetings of the President and Board of Trustees,
and of all committees, boards and commissions, to discuss public business, and
at which a majority of a quorum are to be present, shall conform in all
respects to the provisions of the Open Meetings Act and any amendments thereto.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Meeting Place: All meetings shall be held in the boardroom of the
Municipal building unless otherwise specifically provided in the notice and
proposed agenda for that meeting.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Legal Holidays: Any meeting falling on a legal holiday (as defined by
the State of Illinois) shall be held on the day following the holiday, except
regular meetings of the Board of Trustees which may be held on the holiday
unless the Board of Trustees otherwise provides. (Ord. 95-4, 8-21-1995, eff. 9-
1-1995; amd. Ord. 2005-21, 8-1-2005; Ord. 2015-72, 6-8-2015; Ord. 2025-2, 1-6-
2025)
1-6-4: PRESIDING OFFICER, VOTING POWERS; PRESIDENT PRO TEM; TEMPORARY CHAIRMAN:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Presiding Officer: The President shall preside at all meetings of the
Board of Trustees, unless he or she is absent in which case the President Pro
Tem or temporary Chairman shall preside at the meeting of the Board of
Trustees.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Voting Powers: Although the President does not ordinarily vote, he is
required to vote: 1) where the vote of the Trustees has resulted in a tie; or
2) where one-half (1/2) of the Trustees have voted in favor of an ordinance,
resolution or motion even though there is no tie vote; or 3) where a vote
greater than a majority of the Corporate Authorities is required by law.
The President may veto, in whole or in part, any ordinances, resolutions or
motions that create any type of liability against the Village, by returning the
ordinance(s), resolution(s) or motion(s) to the Village Board with the
President's written objections, at the next regular meeting of the Village
Board occurring not less than five (5) days after their passage. The Village
Board must act to override the veto at the next regular meeting following the
regular meeting at which the Village Board received the President's written
objections. The Village Board can override said veto by two-thirds (2/3) vote
of all the Trustees then holding office.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â President Pro Tem; Temporary Chairman:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â If the President is temporarily absent because of an incapacity to
perform official duties, but the incapacity does not create a vacancy in the
office, for the time period commencing May 6, 2013, and ending April 30, 2015,
the Chairman of the Finance Committee shall serve as the President Pro Tem. If
the Chairman of the Finance Committee is not available to serve as the
President Pro Tem for any reason, then the Corporate Authorities shall elect
one of their remaining members to act as President Pro Tem until the President
returns to office. The President Pro Tem, during this absence or disability,
shall perform the duties and possess all the rights and powers of the President
but shall not be entitled to vote both as President Pro Tem and as Trustee.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â In the absence of the President or the President Pro Tem, the
Corporate Authorities may elect one of their remaining members to act as a
temporary Chairman. The temporary Chairman shall have only the powers of a
presiding officer and a right to vote only in the capacity as a Trustee on any
ordinance, resolution, or motion. (Ord. 13-35, 5-20-2013)
1-6-5: RULES OF ORDER:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Order Of Business: The order of business at meetings of the Board of
Trustees shall be substantially in the following order:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Call to order: Roll call, Pledge of Allegiance, moment of silence/
reflection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Presentations (if necessary).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Public comment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Communications.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Consideration to approve the following minutes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Consideration to approve expenditure(s).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Committee reports (1st meeting of the month).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Village officer reports (2nd meeting of the month).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Old business.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â New business.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â Application(s) for the authority to expend funds.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 12.Â Â Â Village Clerk's report.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 13.Â Â Â Village President's report.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 14.Â Â Â Closed session (when necessary).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 15.Â Â Â Adjournment.
Public comments will be limited to three (3) minutes per resident person unless
they are granted additional time by the consent of the majority of the Board of
Trustees present.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Conduct At Meetings:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No resident(s) shall act in a disruptive manner during the meeting,
and if the Village President believes a resident's actions are disrupting the
Village Board meeting, the Village President will warn the resident(s) to
refrain from disrupting the Village Board meeting. If the resident(s) continues
to disrupt the meeting, the Village President will request members of the
Police Department to escort those resident(s) out of the Board hearing room.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any resident or member of the audience who desires to videotape or
audiotape a public meeting must set up all recording devices in the back of the
Board hearing room to avoid disrupting the Board meeting and/or obstructing the
view of other persons in the audience.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Quorum: A majority of the Trustees shall constitute a quorum to do
business, but no ordinance shall be passed except on the favorable vote of a
majority of the members of the Board of Trustees.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Ordinances And Resolutions: Any ordinance or resolution submitted to
the Board of Trustees shall be reduced to writing before being voted on, upon
the request of the President or any three (3) members of the Board of Trustees.
Such ordinances and resolutions may be composed by the Village Clerk,
President, or any Trustee, with the advice of counsel if so required.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Addressing Meetings: No person other than the President or a member of
the Board of Trustees shall address the Board at any special or regular meeting
except upon the consent of a majority of the members present.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Suspension Of Rules: The rules of order, other than those prescribed by
statute, may be suspended at any time by the consent of a majority of the
members present at any meeting.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Robert's Rules Of Order: "Robert's Rules of Order" shall govern the
deliberations of the Board of Trustees except when in conflict with any of the
foregoing rules. (Ord. 2018-05, 3-19-2018)
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Parliamentarian: The Parliamentarian of the Board shall be the Clerk or
the Clerk's designee. The Parliamentarian shall have the powers as provided by
Robert's Rules of Order and this Code.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Debate: Each Trustee shall be limited to three (3) minutes of debate on
each item listed on the agenda or any matter otherwise before the Board. The
Mayor or the Parliamentarian shall call for a vote when all time for debate has
been exhausted or if it appears that there is no further debate. Any Trustee
who violates this subsection is subject to censure by the Corporate
Authorities. (Ord. 2017-109, 5-15-2017)
1-6-6: ARREST POWERS 1 :
The Village President, members of the Board of Trustees, as well as every
member of the Police Department, are hereby declared to be conservators of the
peace with such powers to make arrests as are given to conservators of the
peace by statute 2 . (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 6-1-4B of this Code.
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/3-9-4.
1-6-7: ELECTRONIC ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Rules Statement: Any member of the Village of Broadview may attend any
open or closed meeting of the Village of Broadview via electronic means (such
as by telephone, video or internet connection) provided that such attendance is
in compliance with these rules and any applicable laws.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Prerequisites: A member of the Village of Broadview may attend a
meeting electronically if the member meets the following conditions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The member should notify the Clerk at least twenty four (24) hours
before the meeting, unless impractical, so that necessary communications
equipment can be arranged. Inability to make the necessary technical
arrangements will result in denial of a request for remote attendance.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The member must assert one of the following reasons why he or she is
unable to physically attend the meeting:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The member cannot attend because of personal illness or
disability; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The member cannot attend because of employment purposes or the
business of the Village of Broadview; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The member cannot attend because of a family or other emergency.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Authorization To Participate:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The Clerk, after receiving the electronic attendance request, shall
inform the Corporate Authority of the request for electronic attendance.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â After establishing that there is a quorum physically present at a
meeting where a member of the Village of Broadview desires to attend
electronically, the presiding officer shall state that: a) a notice was
received by a member of the Village of Broadview in accordance with these
rules, and b) the member will be deemed authorized to attend the meeting
electronically unless a motion objecting to the member's electronic attendance
is made, seconded, and approved by two-thirds (2/3) of the members of the
Village of Broadview physically present at the meeting. If no such motion is
made and seconded or if any such motion fails to achieve the required vote by
the members of the Village of Broadview physically present at the meeting, then
the request by the member to attend the meeting electronically shall be deemed
approved by the Village of Broadview and the presiding officer shall declare
the requesting member present. After such declaration by the presiding officer,
the question of a member's electronic attendance may not be reconsidered.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Adequate Equipment Required: The member participating electronically
and other members of the Village of Broadview must be able to communicate
effectively, and members of the audience must be able to hear all
communications at the meeting site. Before allowing electronic attendance at
any meeting, the Village of Broadview shall provide equipment adequate to
accomplish this objective at the meeting site.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Minutes: Any member attending electronically shall be considered an off
site attendee and counted as present electronically for that meeting if the
member is allowed to attend. The meeting minutes shall also reflect and state
specifically whether each member is physically present or present by electronic
means.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Rights Of Remote Member: A member permitted to attend electronically
will be able to express his or her comments during the meeting and participate
in the same capacity as those members physically present, subject to all
general meeting guidelines and procedures previously adopted and adhered to.
The member attending electronically shall be heard, considered, and counted as
to any vote taken. Accordingly, the name of any member attending electronically
shall be called during any vote taken, and his or her vote counted and recorded
by the Clerk and placed in the minutes for the corresponding meeting. A member
attending electronically may leave a meeting and return as in the case of any
member, provided the member attending electronically shall announce his or her
leaving and returning.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Presiding Officer: If the Village President is attending a meeting
electronically, another member of the Board physically present at the Village
meeting site shall be appointed the presiding officer for that meeting via
motion and approval by the Board.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Committees, Boards And Commissions: These rules shall apply to all
committees, boards and commissions established by authority of the Village of
Broadview. (Ord. 2006-30, 12-18-2006)
1-6-8: LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL:
When, from time to time, it is found to be in the best interests of the Village
of Broadview for the Trustees to retain independent legislative counsel, the
Board of Trustees may choose to do so by ordinance. Said legislative counsel
would advise the Trustees on matters relating to their legislative duties,
which may include, but are not limited to, the drafting of ordinances, contract
documents, opinions on the powers of the legislative branch, analysis of the
validity of actions taken by the Village, review of litigation issues and
providing other advice on matters within the purview of the legislative branch
of Municipal government. The Trustees shall by motion, select one or two (2)
Trustees who shall be allowed to direct the legislative counsel to provide
services, research and opinion. Trustees may seek legal counsel regarding any
matters within the range of items specified above. The independent legislative
counsel will indicate on their invoices the Trustee who initiated the contact
with them and will also provide a general description of the services provided.
The independent legislative counsel shall be retained as independent
contractors at a rate authorized by the Village Board. No department or office
of independent legislative counsel is hereby created. The legislative counsel
shall not replace or usurp the powers of the Village Attorney. (Ord. 2015-54,
6-4-2015)
CHAPTER 7
VILLAGE CLERK
SECTION:
1-7-1: Election, Term Of Office
1-7-2: Bond
1-7-3: Salaries
1-7-4: Duties
1-7-5: Deputy Clerk
1-7-1: ELECTION, TERM OF OFFICE:
The Village Clerk shall be elected for a term of four (4) years and until his
successor is elected and qualified as is provided by statute. (1987 Code)
1-7-2: BOND:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the Village Clerk shall provide
general requirement for bond. (1987 Code)
1-7-3: SALARIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Village Clerk: The office of Village Clerk is a part-time office/
position. The salary of the duly elected part-time Village Clerk shall be
twenty-four thousand dollars and 00/00 ($24,000.00) per year. A â€œpart-time
Village Clerkâ€ shall be defined as one who devotes less than forty (40) hours
per week to the position (exclusive of evening meetings). The Village Clerk
shall also be allowed to participate in the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund,
if eligible.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Effective Date Of Salary: The salary of the Village Clerk provided for
herein shall be effective as of May 1, 2025, and shall commence for the Village
Clerk elected in the 2025 consolidated election.
(Ord. 96-8, 10-7-1996; amd. Ord. CO-2024-6, 4-25-2024)
1-7-4: DUTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Seal: The Village Clerk shall be the custodian of the Village Seal and
shall affix its impression on documents whenever required.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Records: The Clerk shall keep a record showing all of the officers and
regular employees of the Village, and such other records as may be required by
the Board of Trustees.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Indexes: The Clerk shall keep and maintain a proper index to all
documents belonging to the Village and to all records kept by him, so that
ready access thereto and use thereof may be had.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Contracts: The Village Clerk shall seal and attest all contracts of the
Village and all other documents as shall require this formality.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Documents: The Clerk shall be the custodian of all documents belonging
to the Village which are not assigned to the custody of some other officer by
the Village President or the Board of Trustees.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Record Book Of Meetings: The Village Clerk shall keep a record book of
all proceedings which take place in regular or special meetings of the Board.
(1987 Code)
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Supervision Of Deputy Clerk: In addition to the duties set forth
herein, the Clerk shall supervise the Deputy Clerk. (Ord. 2017-102, 5-1-2017)
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Additional Duties: The Village Clerk shall further perform any other
duties and functions that may be assigned to him by statute, this Code or by
ordinance. (1987 Code)
1-7-5: DEPUTY CLERK:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Office Created: There hereby is created the Office of Deputy Clerk.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Salary: The compensation of the Deputy Clerk shall be governed by the
President and Board of Trustees. (1987 Code)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Duties: The duties of the Deputy Clerk shall be prescribed by the
Village Clerk unless the Corporate Authorities have determined by resolution
that the Village Clerk is temporarily or permanently incapacitated in which
case the duties of the Deputy Clerk would then be prescribed by the President
and Board of Trustees for the duration of the Village Clerk's incapacitation or
until the Village Clerk's replacement is chosen and qualified. (Ord. 2016-23,
6-6-2016)
ARTICLE A. VILLAGE COLLECTOR
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Office Created
1-7A-2: Bond
1-7A-3: Salary
1-7A-4: Duties
1-7A-5: Assistant Collector/Office Manager
1-7A-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created the office of Village Collector, to be appointed by the
President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. The Village
Clerk may be appointed to the office of Village Collector. (1987 Code)
1-7A-2: BOND:
The Village Collector shall give bond conditioned upon the faithful performance
of his duties in such amount as may be prescribed by the Board of Trustees.
(1987 Code)
1-7A-3: SALARY:
The annual salary for the Village Collector shall be as determined by the
President and Board of Trustees. (1987 Code)
1-7A-4: DUTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Collect Special Assessments And Taxes: It shall be the duty of the
Village Collector to collect and receive all money due on special assessments
and special taxes that are not paid directly to the Village Treasurer, and to
keep such records pertaining to such collections as may be required by statute
or by the Board of Trustees.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Issue Licenses, Collect Fees, License Register Required: The Village
Collector shall issue all licenses and permits applied for and issued under
this Code or other Village ordinances for which a fee is charged after the
issuance of same has been approved by the President and Board of Trustees, and
shall receive and collect all fees due therefor where no provision to the
contrary is made. He shall keep a license register showing the licenses issued,
the date of expiration, the purpose thereof and the amount of fees received,
and he shall keep a similar record of permits issued. Such records shall be so
arranged and indexed as to be intelligible.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Disposition Of Funds: The Village Collector shall turn over to the
Village Treasurer all money received by him on behalf of the Village at such
times as the President and Board of Trustees may direct, together with all
interest accrued and paid thereon.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Reports: The Village Collector shall make such reports regarding
delinquent special assessments as are required by statute, and shall make a
monthly report to the Board of Trustees showing what money has been received
and the source thereof. The Village Collector shall also make an annual report
to the Board of Trustees showing the activities of his office. (1987 Code)
1-7A-5: ASSISTANT COLLECTOR/OFFICE MANAGER:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Office Created: There is hereby created the office of assistant
Collector/Office Manager.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Duties: The duties of the assistant Collector/Office Manager shall be
prescribed by the President and Board of Trustees.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Salary: The compensation of the assistant Collector/Office Manager
shall be governed by the President and Board of Trustees. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 8
VILLAGE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-8-1: Applicability Of Provisions
1-8-2: Appointments, Terms Of Office, Vacancies, Removals From Office
1-8-3: Oaths, Bonds Required
1-8-4: Salaries
1-8-5: Disposition Of Books And Records
1-8-6: Records
1-8-7: Monies Received
1-8-8: Employee Benefits
1-8-9: Drug And Alcohol Abuse Policy
1-8-10: Ethical Conduct
1-8-11: Residency Requirements
1-8-12: Electronic Attendance At Meetings
1-8-13: Indemnification Of Officers And Employees
1-8-14: Travel, Meal And Lodging Expenses
1-8-1: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply alike to all officers of the
Village, regardless of the time of the creation of the office or of the time of
the appointment of the officer. (1987 Code)
1-8-2: APPOINTMENTS, TERMS OF OFFICE, VACANCIES, REMOVALS FROM OFFICE:
The Village President and Board of Trustees shall make appointments to fill all
appointive offices and every appointive officer of the Village shall hold
office for the term of one year or until his successor is appointed and
qualified unless it is otherwise provided. In case of a vacancy in any such
office, the President and Board of Trustees shall appoint a new officer. All
appointive officers of the Village may be removed from office by the Village
President as is provided by and subject to the provisions of State law 1 .
(1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3-11-1.
1-8-3: OATHS, BONDS REQUIRED:
Before entering upon his duties, every officer of the Village shall take the
oath prescribed by State law 2  and before entering upon the duties of his
office, shall give bond with sureties to be approved by the Board of Trustees
in such amount as may be fixed by statute or at the discretion of the Board of
Trustees. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/3-14-3.
1-8-4: SALARIES:
All officers of the Village shall receive such salaries as may be provided from
time to time by ordinance, except where such officers' compensation is set
forth elsewhere in this Code or otherwise established by ordinance. (Ord. 2017-
111, 5-15-2017)
1-8-5: DISPOSITION OF BOOKS AND RECORDS:
Every officer of the Village, upon termination of his office for any cause
whatsoever shall deliver to his successor all property, books and records which
may be property of the Village, and if no successor has been appointed within
one week after the termination of office, such property shall be delivered
either to the Clerk or to the Treasurer. (1987 Code)
1-8-6: RECORDS:
All records kept by any officer of the Village shall be open to inspection by
the President or any member of the Board of Trustees, whether or not such
records are required to be kept by statute or otherwise. However, members of
the Board of Trustees shall not have keys to access secured record rooms. Such
access shall be obtained by scheduling an appointment for such access with the
Village Clerk, who shall manage access to all secured records rooms in the
Village. (Ord. 2017-114, 5-1-2017)
1-8-7: MONIES RECEIVED:
Every officer of the Village shall, as often as directed by the President or
any member of the Board of Trustees, turn all money received by him in his
official capacity to the Treasurer with a statement showing the source from
which the same was received. (1987 Code)
1-8-8: EMPLOYEE BENEFITS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund: The Village elects to participate
in the Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund, effective January 1, 1963.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Social Security: The eligible employees shall be entitled, as of
January 1, 1955, to participate in the benefits of the Federal old age and
survivors insurance system as authorized by the Federal Social security act and
amendments thereto. The village president shall take such action as may be
required by applicable state and federal laws or regulations to effectuate this
subsection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Agreement With State: The village president is directed to execute
an agreement with the state employees' retirement system of the state (social
security unit) to secure coverage of eligible employees as provided in this
subsection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Withholdings Authorized: Withholdings from salaries or wages of
employees for the purpose provided in this subsection, are hereby authorized to
be made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by applicable state
and federal laws or regulations, and shall be paid over to the state agency in
such amounts and at such times as are designated by state laws or regulations.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Employer Contributions: Employer contributions and administrative
expense shall be paid to the state agency in accordance with applicable state
and federal laws and regulations from amounts appropriated for such purposes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Records: The village clerk shall maintain such records and submit
such reports as may be required by applicable state and federal laws or
regulations. (1987 Code)
1-8-9: DRUG AND ALCOHOL ABUSE POLICY:
The drug and alcohol abuse policy on file in the office of the city clerk and
made a part hereof is hereby adopted in full and is applicable to all village
employees who require a commercial driver's license to perform the scope of
their duties with the village, and who are not otherwise exempt under the terms
of the applicable federal law 1 . (Ord. 96-3, 4-29-1996)
Â 
Notes
1 1. Omnibus transportation employee testing act of 1991.
1-8-10: ETHICAL CONDUCT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following terms shall be
given these definitions:
Â Â Â  CAMPAIGN FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE: Any activity in furtherance of an effort to
influence the selection, nomination, election, or appointment of any individual
to any federal, state or local public office in a political organization, or
the selection, nomination, or election of presidential or vice presidential
electors, but does not include activities: 1) relating to the support or
opposition of any executive, legislative, or administrative action, 2) relating
to collective bargaining, or 3) that are otherwise in furtherance of the
person's official duties.
Â Â Â CANDIDATE: A person who has filed nominating papers or petitions for
nomination or election to an elected office, or who has been appointed to fill
a vacancy in nomination, and who remains eligible for placement on the ballot
at a regular election, as defined in section 1-3 of the election code 1 .
Â Â Â COLLECTIVE BARGAINING: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in
section 3 of the Illinois public labor relations act 2 .
Â Â Â COMPENSATED TIME: With respect to an employee, any time worked by or
credited to the employee that counts toward any minimum work time requirement
imposed as a condition of his or her employment, but for purposes of this
section, does not include any designated holidays, vacation periods, personal
time, compensatory time off or any period when the employee is on a leave of
absence. With respect to officers or employees whose hours are not fixed,
"compensated time" includes any period of time when the officer is on premises
under the control of the employer and any other time when the officer or
employee is executing his or her official duties, regardless of location.
Â Â Â COMPENSATORY TIME OFF: Authorized time off earned by or awarded to an
employee to compensate in whole or in part for time worked in excess of the
minimum work time required of that employee as a condition of his or her
employment.
Â Â Â CONTRIBUTION: Has the same meaning as that term is defined in section 9-1.4
of the election code 3 .
Â Â Â EMPLOYEE: A person employed by the village of Broadview, whether on a full
time or part time basis or pursuant to a contract, whose duties are subject to
the direction and control of an employer with regard to the material details of
how the work is to be performed, but does not include an independent
contractor.
Â Â Â EMPLOYER: The village of Broadview.
Â Â Â GIFT: Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance,
or other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an officer or employee.
Â Â Â LEAVE OF ABSENCE: Any period during which an employee does not receive: 1)
compensation for employment, 2) service credit towards pension benefits, and 3)
health insurance benefits paid for by the employer.
Â Â Â OFFICER: A person who holds, by election or appointment, an office created
by statute or ordinance, regardless of whether the officer is compensated for
service in his or her official capacity.
Â Â Â POLITICAL ACTIVITY: Any activity in support of or in connection with any
campaign for elective office or any political organization, but does not
include activities: 1) relating to the support or opposition of any executive,
legislative, or administrative action, 2) relating to collective bargaining, or
3) that are otherwise in furtherance of the person's official duties.
Â Â Â POLITICAL ORGANIZATION: A party, committee, association, fund, or other
organization (whether or not incorporated) that is required to file a statement
of organization with the state board of elections or a county clerk under
section 9-3 of the election code 1 , but only with regard to those activities
that require filing with the state board of elections or a county clerk.
Â Â Â PROHIBITED POLITICAL ACTIVITY: 1. Preparing for, organizing, or
participating in any political meeting, political rally, political
demonstration, or other political event.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Soliciting contributions, including, but not limited to, the
purchase of, selling, distributing, or receiving payment for tickets for any
political fundraiser, political meeting or other political event.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Soliciting, planning the solicitation of, or preparing any document
or report regarding anything of value intended as a campaign contribution.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Planning, conducting, or participating in a public opinion poll in
connection with a campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political
organization for political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Surveying or gathering information from potential or actual voters
in an election to determine probable voter outcome in connection with a
campaign for elective office or on behalf of a political organization for
political purposes or for or against any referendum question.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Assisting at the polls on election day on behalf of any political
organization or candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum
question.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Soliciting votes on behalf of a candidate for elective office or a
political organization or for or against any referendum question or helping in
an effort to get voters to the polls.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Initiating for circulation, preparing, circulating, reviewing, or
filing any petition on behalf of a candidate for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Making contributions on behalf of any candidate for elective office
in that capacity or in connection with a campaign for elective office.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â Preparing or reviewing responses to candidate questionnaires.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â Distributing, preparing for distribution, or mailing campaign
literature, campaign signs, or other campaign material on behalf of any
candidate for elective office or for or against any referendum question.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 12.Â Â Â Campaigning for any elective office or for or against any
referendum question.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 13.Â Â Â Managing or working on a campaign for elective office or for or
against any referendum question.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 14.Â Â Â Serving as a delegate, alternate, or proxy to a political party
convention.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 15.Â Â Â Participating in any recount or challenge to the outcome of any
election.
PROHIBITED SOURCE: Any person or entity who:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Is seeking official action: a) by an officer or b) by an employee,
or by the officer or another employee directing that employee;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Does business or seeks to do business: a) with the officer or b)
with an employee, or with the officer or another employee directing that
employee;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Conducts activities regulated: a) by the officer or b) by an
employee, or by the officer or another employee directing that employee; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance
or nonperformance of the official duties of the officer or employee.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Prohibited Political Activities:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No officer or employee shall intentionally perform any prohibited
political activity during any "compensated time", as defined herein. No officer
or employee shall intentionally use any property or resources of the village of
Broadview in connection with any prohibited political activity.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â At no time shall any officer or employee intentionally require any
other officer or employee to perform any prohibited political activity: a) as
part of that officer's or employee's duties, b) as a condition of employment,
or c) during any compensated time off (such as holidays, vacation or personal
time off).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â No officer or employee shall be required at any time to participate
in any prohibited political activity in consideration for that officer or
employee being awarded additional compensation or any benefit, whether in the
form of a salary adjustment, bonus, compensatory time off, continued employment
or otherwise, nor shall any officer or employee be awarded additional
compensation or any benefit in consideration for his or her participation in
any prohibited political activity.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Nothing in this subsection prohibits activities that are permissible
for an officer or employee to engage in as part of his or her official duties,
or activities that are undertaken by an officer or employee on a voluntary
basis which are not prohibited by this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â No person either: a) in a position that is subject to recognized
merit principles of public employment or b) in a position the salary for which
is paid in whole or in part by federal funds and that is subject to the federal
standards for a merit system of personnel administration applicable to grant in
aid programs, shall be denied or deprived of employment or tenure solely
because he or she is a member or an officer of a political committee, of a
political party, or of a political organization or club.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Gift Ban:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Except as permitted by this subsection C, no officer or employee,
and no spouse of or immediate family member living with any officer or employee
(collectively referred to herein as "recipients"), shall intentionally solicit
or accept any gift from any "prohibited source", as defined herein, or which is
otherwise prohibited by law or ordinance. No prohibited source shall
intentionally offer to make a gift that violates this subsection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â This subsection C is not applicable to the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Opportunities, benefits, and services that are available on the
same conditions as for the general public.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Anything for which the officer or employee, or his or her spouse
or immediate family member, pays the fair market value.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Any: 1) contribution that is lawfully made under the election
code or 2) activities associated with a fundraising event in support of a
political organization or candidate.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Educational materials and missions.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Travel expenses for a meeting to discuss business.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, nephew, niece, husband, wife,
grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, mother-in-
law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, stepfather,
stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half brother, half
sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather, or grandmother of the
individual's spouse and the individual's fiance or fiancee.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Anything provided by an individual on the basis of a personal
friendship unless the recipient has reason to believe that, under the
circumstances, the gift was provided because of the official position or
employment of the recipient or his or her spouse or immediate family member and
not because of the personal friendship. In determining whether a gift is
provided on the basis of personal friendship, the recipient shall consider the
circumstances under which the gift was offered, such as: 1) the history of the
relationship between the individual giving the gift and the recipient of the
gift, including any previous exchange of gifts between those individuals; 2)
whether to the actual knowledge of the recipient the individual who gave the
gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax deduction or business
reimbursement for the gift; and 3) whether to the actual knowledge of the
recipient the individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same
or similar gifts to other officers or employees or their spouses or immediate
family members.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â Food or refreshments not exceeding seventy five dollars ($75.00)
per person in value on a single calendar day; provided that the food or
refreshments are: 1) consumed on the premises from which they were purchased or
prepared or 2) catered. For the purposes of this subsection, "catered" means
food or refreshments that are purchased ready to consume which are delivered by
any means.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â i.Â Â Â Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation and other benefits
resulting from outside business or employment activities (or outside activities
that are not connected to the official duties of an officer or employee), if
the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because of the official position
or employment of the officer or employee, and are customarily provided to
others in similar circumstances.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â j.Â Â Â Intragovernmental and intergovernmental gifts. For the purpose of
this subsection, "intergovernmental gift" means any gift given to an officer or
employee from another officer or employee, and "intragovernmental" means any
gift given to an officer or employee by an officer or employee of another
governmental entity.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â k.Â Â Â Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â l.Â Â Â Any item or items from any one prohibited source during any
calendar year having a cumulative total value of less than one hundred dollars
($100.00).
Each of the exceptions listed in this subsection is mutually exclusive and
independent of every other.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â An officer or employee, his or her spouse or an immediate family
member living with the officer or employee, does not violate this subsection C
if the recipient promptly takes reasonable action to return a gift from a
prohibited source to its source or gives the gift or an amount equal to its
value to an appropriate charity that is exempt from income taxation under
section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as now or hereafter
amended, renumbered, or succeeded.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Penalties:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A person who intentionally violates any provision of subsection B of
this section may be punished by a term of incarceration in a penal institution
other than a penitentiary for a period of not more than three hundred sixty
four (364) days, and may be fined in an amount not to exceed two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500.00).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A person who intentionally violates any provision of subsection C of
this section is subject to a fine in an amount of not less than one thousand
one dollars ($1,001.00) and not more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a
violation of any provision of this section to the local enforcement
authorities, the State's Attorney or any other law enforcement official may be
punished by a term of incarceration in a penal institution other than a
penitentiary for a period of not more than three hundred sixty four (364) days,
and may be fined in an amount not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â A violation of subsection B of this section shall be prosecuted as a
criminal offense by an attorney for the Village of Broadview by filing in the
Circuit Court an information, or sworn complaint, charging such offense. The
prosecution shall be under and conform to the rules of criminal procedure.
Conviction shall require the establishment of the guilt of the defendant beyond
a reasonable doubt.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â A violation of subsection C of this section may be prosecuted as a
quasi-criminal offense by an attorney for the Village of Broadview.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â In addition to any other penalty that may be applicable, whether
criminal or civil, an officer or employee who intentionally violates any
provision of subsection B or C of this section is subject to discipline or
discharge. (Ord. 2004-07, 5-3-2004)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 10 ILCS 5/1-3.
2 2. 5 ILCS 315/3.
3 3. 10 ILCS 5/9-1.4.
1 1. 10 ILCS 5/9-3.
1-8-11: RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â All Employees: All employees of the Village shall be required to live
within a ten (10) mile radius of the intersection of 17th Avenue and Roosevelt
Road in the Village.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Department Heads:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Definition: For purposes of this subsection an "appointive Municipal
officer" is defined as a department head.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Residency: The residency requirements currently in effect for the
union employees of the Village of Broadview will apply to the department heads
under the provisions of this subsection. This will allow department heads to
live within the ten (10) mile radius already established by the Village or in
any municipality touching the ten (10) mile radius except the city of Chicago.
The ten (10) mile radius currently in effect which includes parts of the city
of Chicago will remain as is. Notwithstanding any provision of this Code to the
contrary, the residency requirements currently in effect for the union
employees of the Village of Broadview shall not apply to any department heads
appointed pursuant to the Illinois Municipal Code who require technical
training or knowledge, including, but not limited to, the Village Attorney and
the Village Engineer. (Ord. 2017-111, 5-15-2017)
1-8-12: ELECTRONIC ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS:
The rules established for electronic attendance at meetings in section
1-6-7 of this title shall apply to all committees, boards and commissions
established by authority of the Village of Broadview. (Ord. 2006-30, 12-18-
2006)
1-8-13: INDEMNIFICATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Defense And Indemnification: To the fullest extent permitted by the
Constitution of the State of Illinois and applicable law including the Illinois
Compiled Statutes, each of the following officers and employees of the Village:
the Village President; each Village Trustee; the Village Clerk and Deputy
Village Clerk; the Village Treasurer; the Village Collector; the Village
Attorney; Village Administrative Adjudicator, Village Prosecutor and special
counsel for the Village; the Director of each department of the Village; the
Chief of Police; the Fire Chief, and each member of any board or commission of
the Village established pursuant to applicable law or by ordinance of the
Village, shall be indemnified, defended and held harmless by the Village from
and against all liabilities for compensatory damages, expenses of
investigation, judgments and amounts paid in settlement which may be imposed
upon or reasonably incurred or paid by such officer or employee in connection
with or resulting from any claim made against him, or any action, suit,
proceeding or investigation in which he may be involved, by reason of his being
or having been such officer or such employee of the Village and acting within
the scope of his employment or officer duties, whether or not he continues to
be such officer or employee at the time of such claim, action, suit, proceeding
or investigation; provided, however, that the foregoing indemnity shall not
extend to any of the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Any liability or cost when an officer or employee could be found to
be guilty of bad faith, or actual malice, or willful and wanton misconduct in
the performance of his duties as such officer or employee;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any proceeding where the Village is prosecuting the action against
the employee or officer;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Where the Village offers or otherwise indicates its willingness to
provide a legal defense with respect to such claim, action, suit, proceeding or
investigation and the officer or employee refuses to accept the legal defense.
In such a case, the employee or officer shall not be entitled to
indemnification for attorney fees. In addition, the Village Board will
determine by a majority vote of the Board whether the officer or employee will
be entitled to indemnification for any judgments entered against said officer
or employee. (Ord. 2017-112, 5-15-2017)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Reservation Of Rights: The Village may elect to defend the employee or
officer under a reservation of rights agreement. If the Village so elects and
if the employee or officer enters into a reservation of rights agreement, the
Village shall pay the judgment, compromise or settlement only if it is
established that the injury arose out of an act or omission relating to the
employee or officer's duties within the scope of the employee or officer's
employment and was not wilful and wanton.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Effect Of Other Proceedings: The termination of any action, suit, or
proceeding by judgment or settlement, conviction, or in a plea of nolo
contendere, or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that
the act giving rise to the claim did not arise out of actions or omissions of
such employee relating to his/her duties as an employee of the Village.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Good Faith: In all cases the employee or officer shall cooperate in
good faith to determine whether the conduct or inaction which gave rise to the
claim or cause of action: 1) was or was not wilful or wanton misconduct, and 2)
was or was not intended to serve or benefit the interests of the Village.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Reimbursement: If the Village determines that a claim against an
employee or officer comes within the provisions of this section, and if a court
of competent jurisdiction later finds that such claim does not come within the
provisions of this section, the Village may seek reimbursement for any payments
made by the Village or on its behalf for part or all of any judgment and costs
or fees incurred by or on behalf of the employee's or officer's defense as well
as for that part or all of the costs or expenses incurred in obtaining the
determination that such claim is not covered by this section.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Other Rights: The foregoing rights of indemnification shall be in
addition to any other rights to which such officer or employee may otherwise be
entitled as a matter of law.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Police Officers: Indemnification shall be provided by the Village to
police officers as provided by applicable law and any applicable collective
bargaining agreements. (Ord. 10-09, 2-16-2010)
1-8-14: TRAVEL, MEAL AND LODGING EXPENSES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Definitions:
Â Â Â  ENTERTAINMENT: Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements,
theaters, circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
Â Â Â PUBLIC BUSINESS: Means expenses incurred in the performance of a public
purpose which is required or useful for the benefit of the Village to carry out
the responsibilities of Village business.
Â Â Â TRAVEL: Means any expenditure directly incident to official travel by
employees and officers of the Village or by wards or charges of the Village
involving reimbursement to travelers or direct payment to private agencies
providing transportation or related services.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Maximum Allowable Reimbursement For Expenses: The maximum allowable
reimbursement for an employee or officer of the Village shall be those rates
set by the Federal Travel Regulation and maintained by the United States
General Services Administration for travel per diem, meals, and incidental
expenses in effect at the time the expenses was incurred. Alcohol is
specifically excluded from reimbursement.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Documentation Of Expenses: No reimbursement of travel, meal or lodging
expenses incurred by a Village employee or officer shall be authorized unless
the "Travel, Meal, and Lodging Expense Reimbursement Request Form", as exhibit
A on file in the Village, has been submitted and approved. All documents and
information submitted with the form shall be subject to disclosure under the
Freedom of Information Act 1 .
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Reimbursement And Emergency Expenses: Expenses for travel, meals, and
lodging of: 1) any officer or employee that exceeds the maximum reimbursement
allowed under the regulations adopted under subsection B of this section or 2)
any member of the Corporate Authorities of the Village may only be approved by
roll call vote at an open meeting of the Corporate Authorities of the Village.
However, in the event of an emergency or other extraordinary circumstance, the
Corporate Authorities may approve more than the maximum allowable expenses set
forth above.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Entertainment Expenses: The Village shall not reimburse any elected
official, employee, or officer for any activities which would be considered
entertainment. Activities which would otherwise be considered entertainment,
but which are excluded from the prohibition on reimbursement due to being
ancillary to the purpose of the program or event, may be reimbursed in
accordance with the provisions of this section or other Village policies,
regulations, or procedures.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Reimbursement Of Employment Related Expenses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The Village shall reimburse any employee for all necessary
expenditures or losses incurred by the employee within the employee's scope of
employment and directly related to services performed for the employer. As used
in this subsection, "necessary expenditures" means all reasonable expenditures
or losses required of the employee in the discharge of employment duties and
that inure to the primary benefit of the employer. The Village is not
responsible for losses due to an employee's own negligence, losses due to
normal wear, or losses due to theft unless the theft was a result of the
Village's negligence. An employee shall submit any necessary expenditure with
appropriate supporting documentation within thirty (30) calendar days after
incurring the expense, except that the Village may provide additional time for
submitting requests for reimbursement in a written expense reimbursement
policy. Where supporting documentation is nonexistent, missing, or lost, the
employee shall submit a signed statement regarding any such receipts.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â An employee is not entitled to reimbursement under this section if
(i) the Village has an established written expense reimbursement policy and
(ii) the employee failed to comply with the written expense reimbursement
policy. The Village is not liable under this section unless the Village
authorized or required the employee to incur the necessary expenditure or the
Village failed to comply with its own written expense reimbursement policy. If
the written expense reimbursement policy of the Village establishes
specifications or guidelines for necessary expenditures, the Village is not
liable under this section for the portion of the expenditure amount that
exceeds the specifications or guidelines of the policy so long as the Village
does not institute a policy that provides for no reimbursement or de minimis
reimbursement. The Village may adopt or amend an expense reimbursement policy
consistent with this section without further action needed by the Corporate
Authorities of the Village.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â To ensure consistency with federal law, any rules adopted by the
Village and interpretation of this section shall be consistent and not in
conflict with federal regulations and guidelines regarding employer
requirements for reimbursement of employee expenses. (Ord. 2018-09, 4-16-2018;
amd. Ord. 2019-18, 6-17-2019)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
ARTICLE A. VILLAGE TREASURER
SECTION:
1-8A-1: Office Created, Appointment, Term
1-8A-2: Bond
1-8A-3: Duties
1-8A-4: Deposits Of Funds, Funds To Be Kept Separate
1-8A-1: OFFICE CREATED, APPOINTMENT, TERM:
There is hereby created the office of Village Treasurer. The Treasurer shall be
appointed by the President and Board of Trustees and shall hold office for a
period of one year, and until his successor is appointed and qualified. (1987
Code)
1-8A-2: BOND:
The Treasurer shall give bond in such sum as may be required by the Board of
Trustees, but the bond shall not be less than the amount of the estimated
revenues and special assessments of the Village for the current year, with
sureties to be approved by the Board of Trustees. The bond shall be conditioned
upon the faithful performance by the Treasurer of his duties as such Treasurer,
and shall be conditioned to indemnify the Village for any loss occasioned by
neglect of duty or wrongful act on the part of the Treasurer. (1987 Code)
1-8A-3: DUTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â General Duties: The Treasurer shall perform such duties as may be
prescribed for him by statute, this Code, ordinance or resolution. He shall
receive all money paid into the Village Treasury, either directly from the
person paying the money or from the hands of such other officer as may receive
it, and he shall pay out money only on vouchers or orders properly signed by
the Village Clerk and by the Village President.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Register Of Warrants: The Treasurer shall keep a register of all
warrants, bonds or orders filed with him or paid by him, and all vouchers as is
required by statute.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Records: The Treasurer shall keep the records showing all money
received by him, showing the source from which it is received and the purpose
for which it is paid, and he shall keep records at all times showing the
financial status of the Village.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Reports:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Monthly Reports: The Treasurer shall make monthly reports to the
Board showing the state of the finances of the Village and the amounts received
and spent during the month, which reports shall be filed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Annual Reports: The Treasurer shall make an annual report between
May 1 and May 10 in each year with total amount of all receipts and
disbursements of the Village and his transactions as Treasurer during the
preceding fiscal year.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Books And Accounts: The Treasurer shall keep such books and accounts as
may be required by the Board of Trustees and shall keep them in a manner
required by the Board. (1987 Code)
1-8A-4: DEPOSITS OF FUNDS, FUNDS TO BE KEPT SEPARATE:
The Village Treasurer shall deposit the Village funds in such depositories as
are designated from time to time by the President and Board of Trustees. He
shall keep the deposit of Village money separate and distinct from his own
money, shall not intermingle his own money with Village money and shall not
make private or personal use of any Village money. (1987 Code)
ARTICLE B. VILLAGE ATTORNEYS
SECTION:
1-8B-1: Village Attorney
1-8B-1-1: Office Created, Appointment
1-8B-1-2: Salary
1-8B-1-3: Duties
1-8B-2: Prosecuting Attorney
1-8B-2-1: Office Created, Appointment, Compensation, Bond
1-8B-2-2: Duties
1-8B-1: VILLAGE ATTORNEY:
1-8B-1-1: OFFICE CREATED, APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created the Office of Village Attorney, an executive office of
the Village. The attorney shall be appointed by the President and Board of
Trustees. (1987 Code)
1-8B-1-2: SALARY:
The Village Attorney shall receive such compensation as may be fixed by an
ordinance approved by the Corporate Authorities. (Ord. 2017-111, 5-15-2017)
1-8B-1-3: DUTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Suits: It shall be the duty of the Village Attorney to prosecute all
suits for the recovery of fines, forfeitures and penalties which may be brought
before any court of competent jurisdiction, justice or any other court, and
also to institute and defend all suits which may be brought in any court by or
against the Village or any of its officers on account of their official acts.
He shall give his personal attention at any court, where any suit in which the
Village is interested may be pending, when called upon by the President or
Chief of Police for such purpose.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Attend Meetings: The Village Attorney shall attend the meetings of the
Board of Trustees and shall, when called upon, draft all ordinances, bonds,
contracts, leases, conveyances and other instruments of writing, including
abstracts of title, required for the business of the Village.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Tax And Assessment Rolls: He shall examine and inspect tax and
assessment rolls and all proceedings in reference to the assessment and
collection of taxes and assessments and perform such other professional
services incident to his office as may in any case be required by the Board of
Trustees or any of its committees. (Ord. 2015-72, 6-8-2015)
1-8B-2: PROSECUTING ATTORNEY:
1-8B-2-1: OFFICE CREATED, APPOINTMENT, COMPENSATION, BOND:
There is hereby created the Office of Prosecuting Attorney to be appointed by
the President and Board of Trustees. The compensation of the Prosecuting
Attorney shall be fixed at the time of such appointment and he shall perform
such services to the Village as may be prescribed by the Village Board. The
bond of the Prosecuting Attorney shall be fixed by the Board at the time of his
appointment. (1987 Code)
1-8B-2-2: DUTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Prosecuting Duties, Legal Services: The Prosecuting Attorney shall
prosecute all ordinance or Code violations and appeals thereof to which the
Village may be a party or in which it may be interested. All appeals shall be
under the direction and supervision of the Village Attorney. He shall also
perform such other and further legal services as the Village Board may direct
or that the Village Attorney may request.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Reports: The President and Board of Trustees may request monthly
reports or interim reports on work done by the Office of Prosecuting Attorney.
(1987 Code)
ARTICLE C. BUDGET OFFICER
SECTION:
1-8C-1: Office Created, Appointment, Term
1-8C-2: Duties
1-8C-1: OFFICE CREATED, APPOINTMENT, TERM:
There is hereby created the office of budget officer. The budget officer shall
be appointed by the president with the advice and consent of the board of
trustees and shall hold the office for a period of one year, and until his
successor is appointed and qualified. (Ord. 2003-01, 1-21-2003)
1-8C-2: DUTIES:
The budget officer shall perform such duties as may be prescribed for him by
statute, this code, ordinance or resolution. The budget officer shall:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Permit, encourage and establish the use of efficient planning,
budgeting, auditing, reporting, accounting, and other fiscal management
procedures in all municipal departments, commissions, and boards;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Compile an annual budget in accordance with state statutes;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Examine all books and records of all municipal departments,
commissions, and boards which relate to monies received by the municipality,
municipal departments, commissions, and boards, and paid out by the
municipality, municipal departments, commissions, and boards, debts and
accounts receivable, amounts owed by or to the municipality, municipal
departments, commissions, and boards;
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Obtain such additional information from the municipality, municipal
departments, commissions, and boards as may be useful to the budget officer for
purposes of compiling a municipal budget, such information to be furnished by
the municipality, municipal departments, commissions, and boards in the form
required by the budget officer;
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Establish and maintain such procedures as shall ensure that no
expenditures are made by the municipality, municipal departments, commissions,
or boards except as authorized by the budget. (Ord. 2003-01, 1-21-2003)
ARTICLE D. VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR
SECTION:
1-8D-1: Office Created
1-8D-2: Salary
1-8D-3: Duties
1-8D-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created the Office of Village Administrator to be appointed by
the President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. The Village
Administrator shall serve as the Ex Officio Collector for the Village. (Ord.
2017-101, 5-1-2017)
1-8D-2: SALARY:
The annual salary of the Village Administrator shall be determined by the
President and Board of Trustees. (Ord. 2017-101, 5-1-2017)
1-8D-3: DUTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The Village Administrator shall, in all cases, be subject to the
authority and direction of the President and Board of Trustees and must comply
with applicable Federal and State Statutes, Municipal ordinances, resolutions,
rules, regulations, policies and procedures. The Village Administrator shall
have the powers and duties as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Formulate, determine and execute labor relations policies and the
administration and negotiation of collective bargaining agreements;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Coordinate economic development, intergovernmental and other
agreements with developers and vendors, civic activities and public relations;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Manage all human resource matters for the Village, including
compensation and benefits administration;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Evaluate all liability risks to the Village and serve as the Village
Risk Manager;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Devote all reasonable time to the discharge of his or her official
duties;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Act so as not to create any conflict of interest between his or her
personal activities and his or her official duties and act so as not to have
any financial or personal interest in any contract or undertaking in any way
involving the Village;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Perform such duties as the Ex Officio Collector for the Village and
other duties as may be prescribed by the Village Board and President, not
inconsistent with ordinances, resolutions, regulations, policies, procedures or
laws;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Carry out such other specific duties and responsibilities as are
required by Village ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation, procedure or
policy or as may be assigned by the President from time to time including,
without limitation, such specific duties and responsibilities as are set forth
in a job description for the Office of Village Administrator. (Ord. 2017-101,
5-1-2017)
ARTICLE E. FINANCE DIRECTOR
SECTION:
1-8E-1: Office Created, Appointment, Term
1-8E-2: Bond
1-8E-3: Duties
1-8E-4: Eligibility Requirements
1-8E-5: Compensation
1-8E-1: OFFICE CREATED, APPOINTMENT, TERM:
There is hereby created the office of Finance Director, who shall be the chief
financial officer of the Village. The Finance Director shall be appointed by
the President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees and shall
hold office for a period of one year, and until his or her successor is
appointed and qualified. The position of finance director shall be a full-time
position and shall be IMRF eligible. Other benefits shall be provided as
required by law or Village policy. (Ord. CO-2023-11, 4-17-2023)
1-8E-2: BOND:
The Finance Director shall give bond as required by Section
1-8-3 of the Village Code. The bond shall be conditioned upon the faithful
performance by the Finance Director of his or her duties as such Finance
Director, and shall be conditioned to indemnify the Village for any loss
occasioned by neglect of duty or wrongful act on the part of the Finance
Director. (Ord. CO-2023-11, 4-17-2023)
1-8E-3: DUTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The Finance Director shall perform such duties as may be prescribed for
him or her by statute, this Code, ordinance or resolution.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The Finance Director, as Chief Financial Officer of the Village, is
responsible for management of the Finance Department and supervision of the
employees within the department.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Under the direction of the Village President, the Finance Director is
responsible for providing information and analysis in support of the Village's
financial strategies and planning and for preparation of the annual budget and
periodic financial forecasts.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The Finance Director shall preserve all warrants returned to them, and
shall keep the books and accounts in the manner that the Village President and
Village Board may prescribe.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â On or before the annual budget ordinance is approved, the Finance
Director shall submit to the corporate authorities a report of the estimate as
nearly as may be of the money necessary to defray the expenses of the Village
during the next fiscal year, and in the report, shall classify and detail the
purposes of expenditure, the aggregate income of the preceding fiscal year, the
Village liabilities, and such other information as is necessary to assist the
President and the Village Board to adopt a budget ordinance.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â The Finance Director is responsible for working with and providing
information to the United States Government, the State of Illinois and the
County of Cook regarding the Village' s financial condition, including but not
limited to revenues, expenditures, and financial obligations.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â The Finance Director is responsible for providing budgetary, cash flow,
and other financial information as required or requested to the Village
President, Village Administrator and Village Board of Trustees for financial
decision making.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â The Finance Director is responsible for providing information, analysis
and advice regarding projected or contemplated expenditures, including capital
expenditures, and for working with bond counsel and the Village Attorney, as
needed, with respect to bond issues and other proposed general fund, enterprise
fund, or capital fund indebtedness.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â The Finance Director is responsible for producing or overseeing the
production of financial records and accounts as requested or required to be
produced by other governmental agencies or the public by means of the Freedom
of Information Act, or pursuant to subpoena. The Finance Director must comply
with applicable federal and state statutes municipal ordinances, and policies
and procedures, as well as generally accepted accounting practices. (Ord. CO-
2023-11, 4-17-2023)
1-8E-4: ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS:
The holder of the Office of Finance Director shall have achieved a Bachelor's
Degree (Masters preferred) in Accounting, Finance or Public Administration and
shall have a minimum five (5) years' supervisory experience in municipal
finance, budgeting, auditing, or comparable field or any combination of
education, training and experience, which provides the required knowledge,
skills, and abilities to perform the essential functions of the job. It is also
preferred that the Finance Director be a certified public accountant and also
be a member of the Illinois Government Finance Officers Association (IGFOA).
(Ord. CO-2023-11, 4-17-2023)
1-8E-5: COMPENSATION:
The compensation for this office shall be set by ordinance or resolution of the
Village Board. (Ord. CO-2023-11, 4-17-2023)
CHAPTER 9
MUNICIPAL FINANCES
SECTION:
1-9-1: Warrants
1-9-2: Charge For Returned Checks
1-9-3: Police Protection Tax
1-9-4: Fire Protection Tax
1-9-5: Third Party Reimbursement; Rendering Aid, Emergency Relief
1-9-6: Roosevelt Road Tax
1-9-7: Budget System; Fiscal Year
1-9-1: WARRANTS:
No warrant of the village shall be recognized or paid unless it is signed by
both the president and the village clerk. (1987 Code)
1-9-2: CHARGE FOR RETURNED CHECKS:
Any person (including sole proprietorships, partnerships or corporations) who
issues a check payable to the village that is not honored because of
insufficient funds, closed account, or insufficient credit shall be liable to
the village in the amount of twenty five dollars ($25.00), and shall be liable
for interest upon the amount of the check at the rate provided for in
subsection 1, section 4 of the interest rate act 1 . (Ord. 92-13, 5-18-1992)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 815 ILCS 205/4.
1-9-3: POLICE PROTECTION TAX:
A tax is hereby imposed for the purpose of police protection in this village at
the rate of 0.05% of the value, as equalized or assessed by the department of
revenue, of all the taxable property therein for the first year in which this
tax is levied, and at a rate of 0.075% of the value, as equalized or assessed
by the department of revenue, for all taxable property therein, in all
succeeding years, all in accordance with state law 2 . (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/11-1-3.
1-9-4: FIRE PROTECTION TAX:
A tax is hereby imposed for the purpose of fire protection in this village at
the rate of 0.30% of the value, as equalized or assessed by the department of
revenue, of all the taxable property therein in accordance with state law 1 .
(1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-7-1.
1-9-5: THIRD PARTY REIMBURSEMENT; RENDERING AID, EMERGENCY RELIEF:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Reimbursement: The recipients or benefactors, or the administrators,
personal representatives, executors, successors, heirs or assigns thereof, all
as determined by the head of the village's department rendering aid or
emergency relief, shall be, and are, obligated to reimburse the village in the
actual amount of payments made by said village to third parties for service
rendered in providing aid or emergency relief and for payments to replenish
necessary supplies and equipment used while providing aid or emergency
services. The head of the village's department incurring such third party costs
shall notify the village collector's office of the circumstances and provide a
copy of the invoice or billing statement from the third party that specifies
the nature of the expenditure and the amount to be, or in fact, paid. The
collector shall cause an invoice to issue to the recipient or benefactor for
the amount certified by the department head as to each such circumstance
reported.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Third Party Defined: As used herein, the term "third party" means and
includes any person, company or business entity, but not if such person is an
employee or an officer of the village, a person directly or indirectly sharing
an interest in such services with an employee or officer of the village, nor a
company any portion of which is owned by an employee or officer of the village.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Payment, Complaints Or Objections: The village collector shall allow
for a reasonable time for the payment of the reimbursement amount and shall
hear any complaints or objections on the type and amount of expense. The
village collector may adjust the amounts invoiced based upon demonstrated
hardship but is not required to so adjust. In the event that no payment or
response to request for reimbursement has been received within thirty (30) days
from the date of invoice, the village collector is authorized to undertake such
action as provided by law for the recovery of money due the village. (Ord. 89-
14, 9-5-1989)
1-9-6: ROOSEVELT ROAD TAX:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Tax Increment Financing Adopted: Tax increment allocation financing is
hereby adopted to pay redevelopment project costs as defined in the act 1  and
as set forth in the plan and project within the area as described in exhibit A
attached to ordinance 2000-02 on file in the village office and incorporated
herein as if set out in full by this reference. The street location (as near as
practicable) for the area is described in exhibit B attached to ordinance 2000-
02 on file in the village office and incorporated herein as if set out in full
by this reference. The map of the area is depicted on exhibit C attached to
ordinance 2000-02 on file in the village office and incorporated herein as if
set out in full by this reference.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Allocation Of Ad Valorem Taxes: Pursuant to the act, the ad valorem
taxes, if any, arising from the levies upon taxable real property in the area
by taxing districts and tax rates determined in the manner provided in section
11-74.4-9(c) of the act each year after the effective date hereof until the
project costs and obligations issued in respect thereto have been paid shall be
divided as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â That portion of taxes levied upon each taxable lot, block, tract or
parcel of real property which is attributable to the lower of the current
equalized assessed value or the initial equalized assessed value of each such
taxable lot, block, tract or parcel of real property in the area shall be
allocated to and when collected shall be paid by the county collector to the
respective affected taxing districts in the manner required by law in the
absence of the adoption of tax increment allocation financing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â That portion, if any, of such taxes which is attributable to the
increase in the current equalized assessed valuation of each lot, block, tract
or parcel of real property in the area over and above the initial equalized
assessed value of each property in the area shall be allocated to and when
collected shall be paid to the village treasurer who shall deposit said taxes
into a special fund, hereby created, and designated the "Roosevelt Road special
tax allocation fund" of the village, and such taxes be used for the purpose of
paying project costs and obligations incurred in the payment thereof as set
forth in the plan and project, in accordance with the provisions of the act.
(Ord. 2000-02, 2-14-2000)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4.
1-9-7: BUDGET SYSTEM; FISCAL YEAR:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The village hereby adopts the budget system procedure pursuant to 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-2-9.1 through 5/8-2-9.10 beginning with the
fiscal year commencing May 1, 2003, until which time the current appropriation
ordinance shall remain in full force and effect.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The village's fiscal year shall commence on May 1 of each year and
shall expire on April 30 of the following year. (Ord. 2003-01, 1-21-2003)
CHAPTER 10
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Municipal Elections
1-10-2: Corporate Seal
1-10-3: Ordinances
1-10-4: Official Time
1-10-5: Whistleblower Reward And Protection Act
1-10-6: Fees For Reproduction And Certification Of Documents
1-10-1: MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS:
Elections for village officers shall be held as is provided by statute, and at
the time prescribed by statute 1 . (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 10 ILCS.
1-10-2: CORPORATE SEAL:
The corporate seal of the village shall be circular in form. In the outer
margin shall be the words "Village of Broadview, Cook Co., IL" and in the
center the words "Corporate Seal". (1987 Code)
1-10-3: ORDINANCES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Recordation, Indexing: All ordinances passed by the president and board
of trustees of the village shall be deposited in the office of the village
clerk, and shall be duly recorded by such clerk in the record book of
ordinances and appropriately indexed by their titles and subjects.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Publication, Time Of Taking Effect: All ordinances of the village
imposing any fine, penalty, imprisonment or forfeiture, or making any
appropriation, shall:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Be printed in book or pamphlet form, published by authority of the
president and board of trustees; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Be published at least once within ten (10) days after passage, in
one or more newspapers published in the village, or if no newspaper is
published therein, then in one or more newspapers with a general circulation
within the village. No such ordinance shall take effect until ten (10) days
after it is so published, except that an ordinance imposing a municipal
retailers' occupation tax adopted under 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-
1 or effecting a change in the rate thereof shall take effect on the first day
of the month next following the expiration of the ten (10) day publication
period. However, ordinances establishing rules and regulations for the
construction of buildings or any part thereof, or for the development or
operation of camps accommodating persons in house trailers, house cars, cabins
or tents where such rules and regulations have been previously printed in book
or pamphlet form, may, by their terms, provide for the adoption of such rules
and regulations or portions thereof by reference thereto without further
printing or publication, if not less than three (3) copies of such rules and
regulations in book or pamphlet form have been filed in the office of the
village clerk for use and examination by the public at least thirty (30) days
prior to the adoption thereof. All other ordinances, resolutions and motions
shall take effect upon their passage unless they otherwise provide.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Filing And Preservation Of Originals: The village clerk shall file and
carefully preserve the originals of all ordinances deposited in his office.
(1987 Code)
1-10-4: OFFICIAL TIME:
Central Standard Time shall be the official time within the village for the
transaction of all village business, except that from two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
of the last Sunday in April of each year to two o'clock (2:00) A.M. of the last
Sunday in October of each year, the official time for the village shall be one
hour in advance of Central Standard Time.
When reference is made to any time without qualification in any motion,
resolution or ordinance heretofore passed or which may be passed hereafter by
the president and board of trustees, or in any official notice, advertisement
or document of the village or in any contract to which the village is a party,
it shall be understood to refer to the official time of the village as herein
prescribed. When the words "daylight saving time" are used, the reference shall
be to the advanced time herein prescribed as the official time from the last
Sunday in April until the last Sunday in October.
In all motions, resolutions or ordinances of the president and board of
trustees, in all official notices, advertisements or documents of the village
and in all contracts to which the village is a party relating to the time of
performance of any act by any officer or department of the village, or relating
to the time within which any rights shall accrue or determine, or within which
any act shall or shall not be performed by any person, it shall be understood
and intended that the time shall be the official time of the village as herein
prescribed. (1987 Code)
1-10-5: WHISTLEBLOWER REWARD AND PROTECTION ACT:
The provisions of the whistleblower reward and protection act, 740 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 175/1 et seq., are hereby adopted by reference. (Ord. 2006-
08, 4-17-2006)
1-10-6: FEES FOR REPRODUCTION AND CERTIFICATION OF DOCUMENTS:
A fee of twenty five cents ($0.25) per page shall be charged for the
reproduction of any document requested from the village. For a large
reproduction request, the village may require a deposit for the estimated cost
of reproduction prior to complying with the request. If the village
overestimated the final actual cost, any overage shall be returned to the
individual who made the request. The village may also elect to send a
reproduction request to an outside third party vendor, in which case the
individual making such request shall be charged for the actual cost charged by
the vendor as well as any delivery or shipping fees incurred by the village in
complying with such a request. (Ord. 2006-20, 8-21-2006)
CHAPTER 11
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY
SECTION:
1-11-1: Title
1-11-2: Scope
1-11-3: Definitions
1-11-4: Notices
1-11-5: Late Payment
1-11-6: Payment
1-11-7: Certain Credits And Refunds
1-11-8: Audit Procedure
1-11-9: Appeal
1-11-10: Hearing
1-11-11: Interest And Penalties
1-11-12: Abatement
1-11-13: Installment Contracts
1-11-14: Statute Of Limitations
1-11-15: Voluntary Disclosure
1-11-16: Publication Of Tax Ordinances
1-11-17: Liens
1-11-18: Application
1-11-19: Home Rule Property Tax Cap
1-11-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the LOCALLY IMPOSED AND
ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2000-16, 12-18-
2000)
1-11-2: SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the Village's procedures in
connection with all of the Village's locally imposed and administered taxes.
(Ord. 2000-16, 12-18-2000)
1-11-3: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them as
follows:
ACT: The "Local Government Taxpayers' Bill of Rights Act".
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The Village's President and Board of Trustees.
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The Village Treasurer or his/her designee is charged
with the administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered
taxes, including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized
by the Local Tax Administrator to act in the Local Tax Administrator's stead.
The Local Tax Administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of
this chapter to give full effect to this chapter. The exercise of such
authority by the Local Tax Administrator shall not be inconsistent with this
chapter and the Act.
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the Village
that is collected or administered by the Village not an agency or department of
the State. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
Property Tax Code or fees collected by the Village other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the Village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the Village that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered tax
and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax is
placed and with respect to Consumer Taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
VILLAGE: The village of Broadview, Illinois. (Ord. 2000-16, 12-18-2000)
1-11-4: NOTICES:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the
day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the local
tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as
follows:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â First-class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known address; or
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Personal service or delivery. (Ord. 2000-16, 12-18-2000)
1-11-5: LATE PAYMENT:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is: a)
physically received by the village on or before the due date, or b) received in
an envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated
on or before the due date, properly addressed to the village, with adequate
postage prepaid. (Ord. 2000-16, 12-18-2000)
1-11-6: PAYMENT:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: a) first to the tax due for the applicable period; b) second
to the interest due for the applicable period; and c) third to the penalty for
the applicable period. (Ord. 2000-16, 12-18-2000)
1-11-7: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The village shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid
without written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally
imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional
by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed
to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts
upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid
the taxes under duress.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be two
(2) or less years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in error
was made. The village shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the village.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the village.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Within thirty (30) days of the receipt by the local tax
administrator of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator
shall either:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Grant the claim; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Provide a written notice that the local tax administrator cannot
make a determination within the initial thirty (30) day period in which event a
decision shall be made within sixty (60) days of the receipt of the claim.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of three percent (3%) per annum, based
on a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days
elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund
check or the grant of a credit. (Ord. 2000-16, 12-18-2000)
1-11-8: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this chapter.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The tax;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The time period of the audit; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within thirty
(30) days after the originally designated audit and during normal business
hours.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer
and the local tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer's
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the village.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer fails to
provide the documents necessary for audit within the time provided, the local
tax administrator may issue a tax determination and assessment based on the tax
administrator's determination of the best estimate of the taxpayer's tax
liability.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within sixty (60) days of
the village's determination of the amount of overpayment.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax. (Ord. 2000-16, 12-18-2000)
1-11-9: APPEAL:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the local tax administrator's issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The reason for the assessment;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The amount of the tax liability proposed;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The obligations of the village during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax administrator
of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the local tax
administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting forth the
basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written protest and petition
for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within forty five
(45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the local
tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within thirty (30) days of receipt of the written protest and petition for
hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
forty five (45) day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall
become a final bill due and owing without further notice.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than sixty (60) days after the expiration of the forty five
(45) day period. (Ord. 2000-16, 12-18-2000)
1-11-10: HEARING:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Whenever a taxpayer has filed a timely written protest and petition for
hearing under section
1-11-9 of this chapter, the local tax administrator shall conduct a hearing
regarding any appeal.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance is
absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of preparation
shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted shall not
exceed fourteen (14) days.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â At the hearing the local tax administrator shall preside and shall hear
testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit or
assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer shall be provided with a copy of the written decision.
(Ord. 2000-16, 12-18-2000)
1-11-11: INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing, through
audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the time
frame otherwise indicated.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Interest: The village hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be five
percent (5%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days
and the number of days elapsed.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty, of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be shown as due
on a return shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of five percent (5%)
of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or
manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the village
issuing a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure
to file penalty shall be assessed equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the
total tax due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was
required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a
failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance. (Ord. 2000-16,
12-18-2000)
1-11-12: ABATEMENT:
The local tax administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any late
filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the local
tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or failure
to make a filing. (Ord. 2000-16, 12-18-2000)
1-11-13: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is thirty (30) days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) working days to cure any delinquency. If the
taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen (14) day period or
fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with
the local administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without
further notice to the taxpayer. (Ord. 2000-16, 12-18-2000)
1-11-14: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
The village, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax returns
in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due and
owing. The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice of
the reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax
still due and owing.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four (4)
years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â If any tax return is not filed or if during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
Village, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due,
the statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer. (Ord. 2000-16, 12-18-2000)
1-11-15: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
Local Tax Administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
Local Tax Administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure
application may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for
any period before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer
incorrectly determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is
liable for the underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid
tax, unless the underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the
taxpayer, in which case the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The
payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days
after the filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to
by the Local Tax Administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the Local Tax Administrator, whichever is longer. (Ord. 2000-16, 12-18-
2000)
1-11-16: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the Village
Clerk's Office. (Ord. 2000-16, 12-18-2000)
1-11-17: LIENS:
The Local Tax Administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the Local Tax Administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the Local Tax Administrator shall:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Timely remove the lien at the Village's expense;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (Ord.
2000-16, 12-18-2000)
1-11-18: APPLICATION:
This chapter shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of
the Village's tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in
conflict with or inconsistent with this chapter, this chapter shall be
controlling. (Ord. 2000-16, 12-18-2000)
1-11-19: HOME RULE PROPERTY TAX CAP:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Applicability And Purpose: This section shall apply only if the Village
is a home rule unit. The purpose of this section is to restrict the Village's
authority to levy Property Taxes. As set forth in this section, the Village is
limited in the amount of Property Taxes it may increase its levy over the prior
year to the lesser of five percent (5%) or the consumer price index.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Definitions: For purposes of this section, the following words and
phrases have the following meanings:
Â Â Â  AGGREGATE LEVY: The annual levy of Property Taxes by the Village for all
purposes, with the exception of:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Amounts levied for the specific purposes of special service areas;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Amounts levied for payments of debt service up to an amount equal to
that allowed to the Village under the PTELL while the Village was a non-home
rule unit; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Other amounts excluded from the aggregate levy under the PTELL or
other State Statute.
Â Â Â CONSUMER PRICE INDEX: The Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers for
all items, published by the United States Department of Labor.
Â Â Â LEVY CAP: The amount of the aggregate levy for the year preceding the
effective date hereof increased each year thereafter by the lesser of five
percent (5%) or the percentage increase in the annualized consumer price index
from December of two (2) years prior to the current levy year to December of
one year prior to the current levy year.
Â Â Â PTELL: The Property Tax Extension Limitation Law, as amended.
Â Â Â VILLAGE: The Village of Broadview and any other entity with the authority to
levy taxes through the Village's authority to levy taxes.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Tax Cap: The Village shall not certify to the Cook County Clerk an
aggregate levy in one year that exceeds the levy cap.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Tax Increase: The Village shall be limited in the amount of Property
Taxes it may increase its levy over the prior year to the lesser of five
percent (5%) or the consumer price index, unless the electors of the Village,
pursuant to a referendum to be initiated by the Village Board, approve an
increase in excess of the foregoing. (Ord. 2014-83, 11-17-2014)
CHAPTER 12
TAX INCREMENT FINANCING "INTERESTED PARTIES" REGISTRIES 1
SECTION:
1-12-1: Definitions
1-12-2: Establishment Of Registry
1-12-3: Maintenance Of Registry
1-12-4: Registration Procedure
1-12-5: Determination Of Eligibility
1-12-6: Renewal And Termination
1-12-7: Amendment To Registration
1-12-8: Registries Available For Public Inspection
1-12-9: Notices To Be Sent To Interested Parties
1-12-10: Noninterference
1-12-11: Amendment Of Registration Rules
Â 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-74.4-1 et seq.
1-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in these registration rules, the following terms shall have the
definitions set forth below:
ACT: The tax increment allocation redevelopment act, 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-74.4-1 et seq., as amended from time to time.
INTERESTED PARTY(S): Any individual or organization or entity registered in a
specific registry who has registered in such registry and whose registration
has not been terminated in accordance with these registration rules.
REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA: A redevelopment project area that: a) is intended
to qualify (or has subsequently qualified) as a "Redevelopment Project Area"
under the act, and b) is subject to the "Interested Parties" registry
requirements of the act.
REGISTRATION FORM: The form appended to these registration rules or such
revised form as may be approved by the village consistent with the requirements
of the act.
REGISTRY OR REGISTRIES: Each interested parties registry, and all such
registries, collectively, established by the village pursuant to section 11-
74.4-4.2 of the act for the redevelopment project area.
VILLAGE: The village of Broadview, an Illinois municipal corporation. (Ord.
2001-02, 2-20-2001)
1-12-2: ESTABLISHMENT OF REGISTRY:
The village shall establish a separate interested parties registry for each
redevelopment project area, whether existing as of the date of the adoption of
these rules or hereafter established. The village shall establish a new
registry whenever it has identified an area for study and possible designation
as a redevelopment project area. In any event the process of establishing the
new registry must be completed prior to the deadline for sending any of the
notices required by section
1-12-9 of this chapter or any other notices required by the act with respect to
the proposed redevelopment project area. (Ord. 2001-02, 2-20-2001)
1-12-3: MAINTENANCE OF REGISTRY:
The registries shall be maintained by the village clerk or his or her designee.
In the event the village determines that an individual other than the clerk
should maintain the registries, the village may transfer the responsibility for
maintaining the registries to such other department provided that the village:
a) gives prior written notice to all interested parties not less than thirty
(30) days prior to such transfer, and b) published notice of such transfer in a
newspaper of general circulation in the village. (Ord. 2001-02, 2-20-2001)
1-12-4: REGISTRATION PROCEDURE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Registration By Residents: An individual seeking to register as an
interested person with respect to a redevelopment project area must complete
and submit a registration form to the village clerk.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Registration By Organization: An organization seeking to register as an
interested person with respect to a redevelopment project area must complete
and submit a registration form to the village clerk. (Ord. 2001-02, 2-20-2001)
1-12-5: DETERMINATION OF ELIGIBILITY:
All individuals and organizations whose registration form and supporting
documentation complies with these registration rules shall be registered in the
applicable registry within ten (10) business days of the village clerk's
receipt of all such documents. The clerk shall provide written notice to the
registrant confirming such registration. Upon registration interested parties
shall be entitled to receive all notices and documents required to be delivered
under these rules or as otherwise required under the act with respect to the
applicable redevelopment project area. If the village clerk determines that a
registrant's registration form and/or supporting documentation is incomplete or
does not comply with these registration rules, the clerk shall give written
notice to the registrant specifying the defect(s), the registrant shall be
entitled to correct any defects and resubmit a new registration form and
supporting documentation. (Ord. 2001-02, 2-20-2001)
1-12-6: RENEWAL AND TERMINATION:
An interested person's registration shall remain effective for a period of
three (3) years. At any time after such three (3) year period the village clerk
may provide written notice by regular mail to the interested person stating
that such registration shall terminate unless the interested person renews such
registration within thirty (30) days of the clerk's mailing of written notice.
To renew such registration, the interested person shall, within such thirty
(30) day period, complete and submit the same registration form then required
for initial registrants operations in the village. The registration of all
individuals and organizations whose registration form is submitted in a timely
manner and complies with these registration rules shall be renewed for an
additional, consecutive three (3) year period. If the village clerk determines
that a registrant's renewal registration form is incomplete or does not comply
with these registration rules, the clerk shall give written notice to the
registrant at the address specified in the renewal registration form submitted
by such registrant, specifying the defect(s). The registrant shall be entitled
to correct any defects and resubmit a new registration form within thirty (30)
days of receipt of the clerk's notice. If all defects are not corrected within
thirty (30) days of the interested person's receipt of the village clerk's
notice, the interested person's registration shall be terminated. Any
interested person whose registration is terminated shall be entitled to
register again as if a first-time registrant. (Ord. 2001-02, 2-20-2001)
1-12-7: AMENDMENT TO REGISTRATION:
An interested party may amend its registration by giving written notice to the
village clerk by certified mail of any of the following: a) change in address
for notice purposes; b) in the case of organizations, a change in the name of
the contact person; and c) a termination of registration. Upon receipt of such
notice, the clerk shall revise the applicable registry accordingly. (Ord. 2001-
02, 2-20-2001)
1-12-8: REGISTRIES AVAILABLE FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION:
Each registry shall be available for public inspection during normal business
hours. The registry shall include the name, address and telephone number of
each interested person and for organizations, the name and phone number of a
designated contact person. (Ord. 2001-02, 2-20-2001)
1-12-9: NOTICES TO BE SENT TO INTERESTED PARTIES:
Interested parties shall be sent the following notices and any other notices
required under the act with respect to the applicable redevelopment project
area:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Pursuant to subsection 74.4-5(a) of the act, notice of the availability
of a proposed redevelopment plan and eligibility report, including how to
obtain this information, such notice shall be sent by mail within a reasonable
period of time after the adoption of the ordinance fixing the public hearing
for the proposed redevelopment plan.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Pursuant to subsection 74.4-5(a) of the act, notice of changes to
proposed redevelopment plans that do not: 1) add additional parcels of property
to the proposed redevelopment project area, 2) substantially affect the general
land uses proposed in the redevelopment plan, 3) substantially change the
nature of or extend the life of the redevelopment project, or 4) increase the
number of low or very low income households to be displaced from the
redevelopment project area, provided that measured from the time of creation of
the redevelopment project area the total displacement of inhabited households
will exceed ten (10); such notice shall be sent by mail not later than ten (10)
days following the village's adoption by ordinance of such changes.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Pursuant to subsection 74.4-5(d)(9) of the act for redevelopment plans
or projects that would result in the displacement of residents from ten (10) or
more inhabited residential units or that contain seventy five (75) or more
inhabited residential units, notice of the availability of the annual report
described by subsection 74.4-5(d) of this act, including how to obtain the
annual report; such notice shall be sent by mail within a reasonable period of
time after completion of the certified audit report.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Pursuant to subsection 74.4-6(e) of the act, notice of the preliminary
public meeting required under the act for a proposed redevelopment project area
that will result in the displacement of ten (10) or more inhabited residential
units or which will contain seventy five (75) or more inhabited residential
units; such notice shall be sent by certified mail not less than fifteen (15)
days before the date of such preliminary public meeting.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Pursuant to subsection 5/11-74.4-6(e) of the act, notice of the
preliminary public meeting required under the act for a proposed redevelopment
project area that will result in the displacement of ten (10) or more inhabited
residential units, such notice will be sent by certified mail not less than
fifteen (15) days before the date of such preliminary public meeting. (Ord.
2001-02, 2-20-2001)
1-12-10: NONINTERFERENCE:
These registration rules shall not be used to prohibit or otherwise interfere
with the ability of eligible organizations and individuals to register for
receipt of information to which they are entitled under the act. (Ord. 2001-02,
2-20-2001)
1-12-11: AMENDMENT OF REGISTRATION RULES:
These registration rules may be amended by the village subject to and
consistent with the requirements of the act. (Ord. 2001-02, 2-20-2001)
CHAPTER 13
CODE HEARING DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
1-13-1: Purpose
1-13-2: Creation
1-13-3: General Provisions
1-13-4: Ordinance Enforcement Administrator; Powers And Duties
1-13-5: Rules And Regulations
1-13-6: Hearing Officers Qualifications
1-13-7: Hearing Officers; Powers And Duties
1-13-8: Instituting Code Hearing Proceedings
1-13-9: Notice And Service
1-13-10: Code Hearings
1-13-11: Defenses To Code Violations
1-13-12: Defaults
1-13-13: Judicial Review
1-13-14: Final Determination Of The Existence Of Code Violations
1-13-15: Enforcement Of Judgments
1-13-16: Miscellaneous Provisions
1-13-17: Eviction, Rights Of Occupants
1-13-18: Sanctions Applicable To The Building Owner
1-13-1: PURPOSE:
The stated purpose of this chapter is to provide for the fair and efficient
enforcement of the village ordinances as may be allowed by law and directed by
ordinance, through the adjudication of violations of such village ordinances
and establishing procedures for collection of unpaid fines and penalties. (Ord.
2001-25, 11-5-2001)
1-13-2: CREATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Pursuant to the statutory authority granted by 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1-2.2-1 et seq., the village of Broadview code hearing department is
hereby established which shall have the power to enforce compliance with all
municipal ordinances as from time to time authorized by the board of trustees,
except for any offense under the Illinois vehicle code or a similar offense
that is a traffic regulation governing the movement of vehicles and except for
any reportable offense under section 6-204 of the Illinois vehicle code. The
code hearing department shall also have the authority to adjudicate and enforce
building code violations pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-31.1-
1 et seq.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2.2-1 et seq., as
it may be amended from time to time, is hereby adopted and incorporated into
this chapter as if fully set forth herein.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-31.1-1 et seq., as
it may be amended from time to time, is hereby adopted and incorporated into
this chapter as if fully set forth herein.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The department shall be administered by an ordinance enforcement
administrator, and staffed by hearing officers and other employees as may be
needed, appointed by the president, subject to approval by the board of
trustees.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â The establishment of the village of Broadview code hearing department
does not preclude the village from using any other method to enforce municipal
ordinances. (Ord. 2001-25, 11-5-2001)
1-13-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to code hearing proceedings
conducted by the village of Broadview code hearing department to the extent
that they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this code which set forth
specific procedures for the code hearings of particular code provisions. (Ord.
2001-25, 11-5-2001)
1-13-4: ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATOR; POWERS AND DUTIES:
The powers and duties of the ordinance enforcement administrator shall include:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Directing the department with respect to its management and structure.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Promulgating rules and regulations for the conduct of code hearing
proceedings.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Adopt, distribute and process all notices as may be required under this
chapter or as may be reasonably required to carry out the purpose of this
chapter.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Collecting monies paid as fines, penalties and/or cost assessed after a
final determination of the existence of a violation.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Certifying copies of a final determination of a code violation
adjudicated pursuant to this chapter and any report verifying a final
determination of the existence of a code violation, issued in accordance with
this chapter.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Keeping accurate records of the proceedings, including, but not limited
to, appearances, nonappearances, pleas entered, and fines and penalties
assessed and paid.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Collecting unpaid fines and penalties through private collection
agencies.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Establishing any other necessary rules and regulations as may be
required to carry out the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2001-25, 11-5-2001)
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Certify reports to the secretary of state concerning initiation of
suspension of driving privileges in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter as hereinafter set forth and those of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
6-306.5. (Ord. 09-41, 9-8-2009)
1-13-5: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The rules and regulations promulgated for the conduct of code hearings shall be
published and kept on file in the office of the village clerk where they shall
be available to the public for inspection and copying at standard fees during
business hours. (Ord. 2001-25, 11-5-2001)
1-13-6: HEARING OFFICERS QUALIFICATIONS:
Any person appointed, as a hearing officer shall:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Be an attorney licensed to practice law in the state for not less than
three (3) years and shall be in good standing with the attorney registration
discipline committee.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Prior to conducting code hearings, have successfully completed a formal
training program which includes the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Instruction on the rules of procedure of the code hearings to be
conducted.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Orientation to each subject area of the code violations to be
adjudicated.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Observation of code hearings.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on evidence
and issuing final orders. (Ord. 2001-25, 11-5-2001)
1-13-7: HEARING OFFICERS; POWERS AND DUTIES:
Hearing officers shall preside over code hearings and shall have all powers
necessary to conduct fair and impartial hearings including, but not limited to:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Holding conferences for the settlement or simplification of the issues.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Administering oaths and affirmations to witnesses.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Hearing testimony and accepting evidence that is relevant to the
existence of a code violation.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Rule upon motions, objections and the admissibility of evidence.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â At the request of any party or on the hearing officer's own motion, the
hearing officer may subpoena the attendance of relevant witnesses and the
production of relevant books, records, or other information.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Preserve the record of the hearing, including all exhibits and evidence
admitted into the record at the hearing.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Regulate the course of the hearing in accordance with this chapter, the
rules adopted by the code hearing department, or other applicable law.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Issue a determination based upon a review of the notice of violation
and on the evidence submitted. The determination shall be in writing, shall be
signed by the hearing officer, and shall be designated as findings, decision,
and order.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Upon finding that a code violation exists, impose fines, penalties and
costs consistent with applicable code provisions, except however, that in no
event shall the hearing officer have authority to impose a penalty of
incarceration.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â When applicable, each day a code provision is found to have been
violated by the defendant shall constitute a separate offense, and each
separate offense subjects the defendant to the penalty provided by the
governing penalty provision.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Asking questions of the parties and witnesses, if necessary, to ensure
the clarity and completeness of the testimony and the record. (Ord. 2001-25,
11-5-2001)
1-13-8: INSTITUTING CODE HEARING PROCEEDINGS:
Any authorized department or agency of the village may institute a code hearing
proceeding with the code hearing department by forwarding a copy of a notice of
violation to the code hearing department. (Ord. 2001-25, 11-5-2001)
1-13-9: NOTICE AND SERVICE:
All matters to be adjudicated by the code hearing department shall be commenced
against the party alleged to have violated one or more code provision(s) by
issuing and serving upon that party a notice of violation and shall be
conducted in accordance with the following procedures:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â All police officers, the building commissioner, village inspectors, as
well as other specifically authorized individuals of any village department
shall have the authority to issue a notice of violation.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The notice of violation shall contain, but shall not be limited to, the
following information:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The name and address of the person or entity being charged with the
alleged violation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The sections of the code alleged to have been violated.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The date, time and place of the alleged violation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â A legally sufficient description of the activity or conduct alleged
to constitute a violation of each code section set forth in the notice of
violation or a legally sufficient description of the facts giving rise to the
allegations set forth in the notice of violation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The name and identification number of the issuer of the notice of
violation, certifying the correctness of the information by signing his or her
name to the notice.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â The complainant's name if the complainant is not the issuing village
officer or employee.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â The legal authority and jurisdiction under which the hearing is to
be held and the penalties for failure to appear at the hearing.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Unless otherwise provided by law or rule:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A notice of violation shall be served upon the alleged violator by
first-class mail along with a summons, indicating the date, time, and location
of the hearing, commanding the appearance of the defendant. The hearing date
shall not be less than thirty (30) nor more than forty (40) days after the
violation is reported.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â For violations issued pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
11-31.1-1, where property owners are required to register with the village,
service may be made on the owner by mailing the report and the summons to the
owner's address registered with the village.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â For violations issued pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
11-31.1-1, if the name of the owner of the structure cannot be ascertained or
if service on the owner cannot be made by mail, service may also be made on the
owner by posting or nailing a copy of the violation report form on the front
door of the structure where the violation is found, not less than twenty (20)
days before the hearing is scheduled. (Ord. 2001-25, 11-5-2001)
1-13-10: CODE HEARINGS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â All code hearings conducted by the code hearing department are open to
the public and shall be presided over by a duly appointed hearing officer who
is charged with providing the parties a full and fair opportunity to be heard.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â An attorney, or any other agent or representative who appears on behalf
of any person, shall file with the hearing officer a written appearance on a
form provided by the department.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â In no event shall the case for the village be presented by an employee
of the code hearing department, provided, however, that documentary evidence,
including the notice of violation, which has been prepared by another
department or agency of the village may be presented at the hearing by the
hearing officer.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The hearing officer may grant continuances only upon a showing of good
cause. Lack of preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any
continuance granted by the hearing officer shall not exceed twenty five (25)
days.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â All testimony shall be given under oath or affirmation.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â The formal and technical rules of evidence shall not apply in the
conduct of the hearing. Evidence including hearsay, may be admitted only if it
is of a type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct
of their affairs.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â No violation may be established except upon proof by a preponderance of
the evidence, provided, however, that a notice of violation, or a copy thereof,
issued, signed and served in accordance with section
1-13-9 of this chapter shall be prima facie evidence of the correctness of the
facts specified therein.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â The ordinance enforcement administrator shall determine the manner in
which the record shall be preserved. Such preservation may be made by tape
recording or other appropriate means. Recording by any means by any member of
the public is prohibited unless expressly authorized by the ordinance
enforcement administrator. The record of all hearings before a hearing officer
shall include: 1) a record of the testimony presented at the hearing, which may
be made by tape recording or other appropriate means; 2) all documents,
exhibits, and other physical evidence presented at the hearing and admitted
into evidence; 3) a copy of the notice of violation and notice of hearing; and
4) a copy of the findings and decision and order of the hearing officer. (Ord.
2001-25, 11-5-2001)
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â At the conclusion of a hearing, the hearing officer shall issue a
finding, decision and order, on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing, as to the existence of a code violation. If a code violation is found
to exist the hearing officer may: 1) impose penalties and/or fines that are
consistent with applicable provisions of this code not exceeding seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense; however a separate offense shall be
deemed committed each day during or on which a violation or noncompliance
occurs or continues, unless otherwise provided; 2) issue orders that are
consistent with applicable provisions of this code; and/or 3) assess costs
reasonably related to instituting the code hearing proceeding; provided,
however, that in no event shall the hearing officer have the authority to
impose a penalty of imprisonment. (Ord. 2005-22, 8-8-2005)
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â At the conclusion of a hearing, the hearing officer shall inform the
parties orally and in writing as to his or her determination and the
defendant's right to seek judicial review of the decision. (Ord. 2001-25, 11-5-
2001)
1-13-11: DEFENSES TO CODE VIOLATIONS:
It shall be a defense to a code violation written pursuant to 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-31.1 if:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The code violation alleged in the notice does not in fact exist, or at
the time of the hearing the violation has been remedied or removed.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The code violation has been caused by the current property occupants
and that in spite of reasonable attempts by the owner to maintain the dwelling
free of such violation(s), the current occupants continue to cause the
violation.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â An occupant or resident of the dwelling has refused entry to the owner
or his agent to all or a part of the dwelling for the purpose of correcting the
code violation. (Ord. 2001-25, 11-5-2001)
1-13-12: DEFAULTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â If on the date set for hearing the defendant, or his attorney or agent
of record, fails to appear, the hearing officer shall proceed with the hearing
and accept evidence relevant to the existence of a code violation and may enter
a default finding against the defendant as to the existence of code violations,
imposing fines, penalties and assess costs.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â A copy of the order of default shall be served in any manner for
service of a notice of violation permitted by this chapter and applicable to
the violation.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â A copy of the order of default shall apprise the defendant of the
procedure for setting aside the default decision.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â A defendant against whom an order of default is entered may file a
motion with the code hearing department to set aside the order of default and
for a new hearing date. A motion to set aside an order of default must be filed
within twenty one (21) days from the date of mailing.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â A motion to set aside an order of default shall set forth the reason(s)
the defendant failed to appear on the original hearing date. A hearing officer
shall hear and rule on the motion. If the hearing officer determines that the
defendant's failure to appear at the hearing was for good cause and grants the
motion, a hearing will be held immediately on the alleged code violation set
forth in the notice of violation unless the defendant requests another hearing
date and presents a showing of good cause for continuing the hearing.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â If any default judgment is set aside pursuant to this section, the
hearing officer shall have authority to enter an order extinguishing any lien
which has been recorded for any debt due and owing the village as a result of
the vacated default judgment. (Ord. 2001-25, 11-5-2001)
1-13-13: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Any final decision by a hearing officer that a code violation does or does not
exist shall constitute a final determination for purposes of judicial review
under the Illinois administrative review law. (Ord. 2001-25, 11-5-2001)
1-13-14: FINAL DETERMINATION OF THE EXISTENCE OF CODE VIOLATIONS:
A final determination shall occur following the failure to pay the fine or
penalty after the hearing officer's determination of the existence of a
violation, and the exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust, any administrative
review procedures hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 2001-25, 11-5-2001)
1-13-15: ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any fine, other sanction, or cost imposed, or part of any fine, other
sanction, or costs imposed, remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of or the
failure to exhaust judicial review procedures under the Illinois administrative
review law shall be a debt due and owing the municipality and be collected in
accordance with applicable law.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â After expiration of the period in which judicial review under the
Illinois administrative review law may be sought for a final determination of
the code violation, the municipality may commence a proceeding in the circuit
court of the county in which the municipality is located for purpose of
obtaining a judgment on the findings, decision and order for the amount
indicated.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Nothing in this section shall prevent the village from consolidating
multiple findings, decisions, and orders against a person in such a proceeding.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Upon commencement of the action, the village shall file a certified
copy of the findings, decision, and order, which shall be accompanied by a
certification that recites facts sufficient to show that the findings,
decision, and order was issued in accordance with this chapter and other
applicable ordinances. Service of the summons and a copy of the petition may be
by any method provided for by section 2-203 of the code of civil procedure or
by certified mail, return receipt requested.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â If the court is satisfied that the findings, decision and order was
entered in accordance with state statutes, the provisions of this chapter and
other municipal ordinances, and that the defendant had an opportunity for a
hearing under this chapter and for judicial review, the court shall render
judgment in favor of the village and against the defendant for the amount
indicated in the findings, decision and order, plus cost.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Any judgment rendered in favor of the village and against the defendant
shall have the same effect and may be enforced in the same manner as other
judgments for the recovery of money.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â A lien shall be imposed on the real estate or personal estate, or both,
of the defendant in the amount of any debt due and owing the municipality under
this section. The lien may be recorded and enforced in the same manner as a
judgment lien pursuant to a judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction. No
item may be enforced under this section until it has been recorded in the
manner provided by article XII of the code of civil procedure or by the uniform
commercial code.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Nothing in this section shall prevent the village from enforcing or
seeking to enforce any order of a hearing officer in any manner provided by
law. (Ord. 2001-25, 11-5-2001)
1-13-16: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this chapter shall be
held invalid, the invalidity thereof shall not affect any of the other
provisions of this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â All ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed to the extent
of such conflict.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage, approval and publication as provided by law. (Ord. 2001-25, 11-5-2001)
1-13-17: EVICTION, RIGHTS OF OCCUPANTS:
In the case of a building code violation, no action for eviction, abatement of
a nuisance, forcible entry and detainer or other similar proceeding shall be
threatened or instituted against an occupant of a dwelling solely because such
occupant agrees to testify or testifies at a code violation hearing. (Ord. 09-
41, 9-8-2009)
1-13-18: SANCTIONS APPLICABLE TO THE BUILDING OWNER:
An order to correct a building code violation and the sanctions imposed by a
municipality as the result of a finding of a code violation shall attach to the
property as well as to the owner of the property, so that a finding of a code
violation against one owner cannot be avoided by conveying or transferring the
property to another owner. Further any subsequent transferee or owner of
property shall be subject to the findings, decision, and order of the hearing
officer. (Ord. 09-41, 9-8-2009)
CHAPTER 14
OFFICE OF THE INDEPENDENT INSPECTOR GENERAL
SECTION:
1-14-1: Office Of Independent Inspector General Created
1-14-2: Term And Compensation
1-14-3: Purpose Of Office
1-14-4: Powers And Duties Of OIG
1-14-5: Duty To Cooperate
1-14-6: Acknowledgement Of Duty To Cooperate
1-14-7: Dissolution
1-14-1: OFFICE OF INDEPENDENT INSPECTOR GENERAL CREATED:
There is hereby created the Office of "Independent Inspector General" ("OIG")
for the Village of Broadview to be appointed by majority vote of the Corporate
Authorities. (Ord. 2015-53, 7-6-2015)
1-14-2: TERM AND COMPENSATION:
The OIG shall serve for an initial term of approximately one year, which shall
commence on the adoption date of this chapter and expire on April 30, 2016, and
may be reappointed for successive one year terms by a majority vote of the
Corporate Authorities of the Village. The OIG shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 2015-53, 7-6-2015)
1-14-3: PURPOSE OF OFFICE:
The purpose of the OIG is to detect, deter and prevent corruption, fraud,
waste, mismanagement, unlawful political discrimination, unlawful activity and/
or misconduct in the operation of Village government (collectively referred to
elsewhere in this chapter as "misconduct"). "Unlawful political discrimination"
shall include, but not be limited to basing the terms and conditions of a non-
exempt employee's employment such as hiring, firing, promotion, transfer,
discipline or termination on political reasons and factors. (Ord. 2015-53, 7-6-
2015)
1-14-4: POWERS AND DUTIES OF OIG:
The OIG shall have the following powers and authorities:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â To receive and register complaints concerning misconduct in the
operation of Village government, including but not limited to:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Misconduct in connection with the Village's award of any contract,
license, or benefit;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Misconduct of any Village employee;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Misconduct of any elected or appointed official of the Village in
the performance of his or her official duties;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Misconduct of contractors, vendors, and professional service
providers who furnish goods and services to the Village;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Misconduct of persons and businesses seeking to do business with the
Village; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Retaliation against any Village employee or elected or appointed
officials of the Village based upon their cooperation with the OIG.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â To investigate misconduct in the operation of Village government,
either in response to such complaints or on the OIG's own initiative. The OIG
acknowledges that it has read and understands the applicable provisions in
State law (e.g., the Uniform Peace Officers' Disciplinary Act 1 ), the
Village's Police Department General Orders and Procedures and its collective
bargaining agreements that govern conducting internal investigations for
Village Police Department personnel and that failure to comply with the time
periods and notice provisions regarding these internal investigations can
result in Village management being barred from prosecuting a Police Department
employee for misconduct. It is agreed by the OIG and the Village that
investigations of Police Department employees by the OIG are subject to the
applicable internal investigation provisions of State law, the Village Police
Department General Orders and Procedures and its collective bargaining
agreements. In conducting its investigations of alleged misconduct, the OIG
agrees to cooperate with and assist the Police Chief, as warranted and
appropriate, including providing information, witness statements and other
evidence, to allow the Village to pursue disciplinary action against Village
employees under applicable State law (e.g., Board of Fire and Police
Commissioners Act 2 ), the Village's Personnel Policy Manual, the department
General Orders and Procedures and its collective bargaining agreements. As it
relates to the OIG's authority regarding the Broadview Police Department, the
OIG only has the authority to conduct OIG investigations, all other police
matters remain within the jurisdiction of the Broadview Police Department. The
same provisions above will govern any OIG investigations of alleged misconduct
within other Village departments, subject to the applicable State laws, the
Village's Personnel Policy Manual, any department General Orders and Procedures
and the applicable collective bargaining agreements.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â To refer complaints and information regarding possible misconduct to
the Mayor and Board of Trustees, Police Chief and other outside law enforcement
agencies, including, but not limited to the Cook County State's Attorney and
United States Attorney, as warranted and as appropriate. The OIG's referral of
complaints and information regarding possible misconduct to the Mayor and Board
of Trustees, as warranted and appropriate, shall be done in order to ensure
that appropriate discipline may be imposed in accordance with applicable State
law (e.g., Board of Fire and Police Commissioners Act 1 ), the Village's
Personnel Policy Manual, any department General Orders and Procedures and the
Village collective bargaining agreements.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â To obtain information from, and conduct interviews under oath with
Village employees, agents, contractors and persons doing or seeking to do
business with the Village for the purpose of investigating potential
misconduct.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â To provide periodic reports to the Mayor and Board of Trustees as to
the status of matters within the scope of the OIG's authority, to the extent
such reporting would not impair the integrity of ongoing investigations.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â To make recommendations for corrective action to the Mayor and Board of
Trustees with respect to combating misconduct.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â To maintain an OIG hotline number and email address in order to
facilitate citizen and employee reports of misconduct.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â In the event of any grievance arbitration or hearing before the Village
Board of Fire and Police Commission arising from disciplinary charges or
actions taken by the Village against a Village employee based upon the results
of an OIG investigation, OIG will fully cooperate with the Village in the
prosecution of the disciplinary action or defense of the grievance arbitration.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as any limitation upon the
existing legal authority of the Mayor and Board of Trustees to investigate,
prosecute and take remedial action in regards to issues or allegations of
corruption, fraud, waste and other wrongdoing within all areas of the Municipal
government. The appointment of the Cook County Sheriff's Office as Inspector
General for the Village shall be in conjunction with the concurrent powers of
the Corporate Authorities, and shall not divest the Corporate Authorities of
any such powers, rights or duties. (Ord. 2015-53, 7-6-2015)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 725/1 et seq.
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1 et seq.
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1 et seq.
1-14-5: DUTY TO COOPERATE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Upon proper notification of this chapter, it shall be the duty of all
Village employees, elected and appointed officials, agents, independent
contractors to the Village, licensees, and those doing or seeking to do
business with the Village, to cooperate with OIG in the conduct of any
investigation undertaken pursuant to OIG's authority.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Subject to Federal and State constitutional protections, State law
employment rights, the Village's Personnel Policy Manual and any applicable
Village collective bargaining agreements, failure of any Village employee or
appointed official to cooperate with OIG in regard to matters covered by this
chapter shall be considered, at the sole discretion of the Mayor and the
Village Board of Trustees, cause for disciplinary action, up to and including
termination of employment or removal from office.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â It shall be the duty of any party doing business with the Village to
likewise cooperate with the OIG in regard to matters covered by this chapter.
Refusal to so cooperate shall be considered, at the sole discretion of the
Mayor and the Village Board of Trustees, cause for termination of a contract,
license or similar benefit, or as grounds for the Village refusing to enter
into a future contract, license or other benefit. (Ord. 2015-53, 7-6-2015)
1-14-6: ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF DUTY TO COOPERATE:
All contracts for goods and services, and all future licenses or other benefits
issued by the Village after the effective date of this chapter, shall be
subject to the requirement that the individual or entity receiving the
contract, license, or benefit, agree to fully comply with requirements of this
chapter relating to cooperation with the Inspector General's Office. (Ord.
2015-53, 7-6-2015)
1-14-7: DISSOLUTION:
This chapter can be repealed at any time by a majority vote of the Corporate
Authorities of the Village. (Ord. 2015-53, 7-6-2015)
CHAPTER 15
SEXUAL HARASSMENT
SECTION:
1-15-1: Prohibition On Sexual Harassment
1-15-2: Definition Of Sexual Harassment
1-15-3: Procedure For Reporting Sexual Harassment Allegations
1-15-4: Prohibition On Retaliation For Reporting Sexual Harassment Allegations
1-15-5: The Investigation
1-15-6: Consequences Of A Violation Of The Prohibition On Sexual Harassment
1-15-7: Consequences For Knowingly Making A False Report
1-15-8: Additional Resources
1-15-1: PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
It is unlawful to harass a person because of that person's sex, and sexual
harassment is a form of discrimination under State and Federal law. All persons
have a right to work in an environment free from sexual harassment. Sexual
harassment is unacceptable misconduct which affects individuals of all genders
and sexual orientations.
Therefore, it is the policy of the Village of Broadview (the "Village") to
prohibit harassment of any person by any Village official, Village agent,
Village employee, or Village agency or office on the basis of sex or gender.
All Village officials, Village agents, Village employees and Village agencies
or offices are prohibited from sexually harassing any person in the workplace
or at work-related functions or activities, regardless of any employment
relationship or lack thereof. All Village officials, Village agents, Village
employees and Village agencies or offices are encouraged to report any
incidents of sexual harassment as prescribed within this chapter. The Village
takes every allegation of sexual harassment very seriously, and all complaints
received pursuant to this chapter will be fully investigated. Any official,
agent or employee found to have acted in violation of this chapter will be
subject to appropriate disciplinary action, up to and including discharge.
(Ord. 2018-01, 1-3-2018)
1-15-2: DEFINITION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
For purposes of this chapter, the Village adopts the definition of sexual
harassment used in the Illinois Human Rights Act. Under the Human Rights Act
sexual harassment is defined as:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any
conduct of a sexual nature when:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a
term or condition of an individual's employment,
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual, or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering
with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Additionally, the following conduct may also constitute sexual
harassment:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Verbal: Sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor, jokes
about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions, threats,
repeated requests for dates or statements about other employees of a sexual
nature, even outside of their presence. The use of terms such as "honey",
"darling", and "sweetheart" may be objectionable to many individuals who
believe that these terms undermine their authority and their ability to deal
with others on an equal and professional level. Therefore, employees should
treat each other with respect and refrain from using names or terms that may be
offensive.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Non-verbal: Suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, "catcalls", "smacking"
or "kissing" noises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Visual: Displaying or circulating posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans
of a sexual nature and viewing or circulating pornographic material or
websites.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Physical: Unwelcome touching, hugging, kissing, pinching, brushing
up or against the body, any coerced sexual act, battery or assault.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Textual/electronic: "Sexting" (defined as sending electronic
messages with sexual content and/or verbiage, which may or may not include the
sending of pictures and video), cyber stalking, the use of sexually explicit
language, harassment, and threats via all forms of electronic communication
(including e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line postings,
blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook, Twitter,
Instagram, Snapchat, or other similar social networking platforms).
The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to determine.
On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more subtle and
depends, to some extent, on individual perception and interpretation. A
"reasonable person" standard shall apply to assess claims of sexual harassment
and determine what constitutes offensive behavior. (Ord. 2018-01, 1-3-2018)
1-15-3: PROCEDURE FOR REPORTING SEXUAL HARASSMENT ALLEGATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â An employee who either experiences or witnesses any form of sexual
harassment or believes herself/himself to be the object of sexual harassment
should deal with the incident(s) as directly as possible by clearly
communicating her/his position to the offender and her/his immediate
supervisor. An employee who either experiences or witnesses any form of sexual
harassment or believes herself/himself to be the object of sexual harassment
should promptly report such incidents in accordance with the procedures
described below. It is not necessary for the sexual harassment to be directed
at the person making the report. Early reporting and intervention have proven
to be the most effective method of resolving actual or perceived incidents of
harassment or discrimination. Therefore, prompt reporting of complaints or
concerns is strongly encouraged by the Village to allow it to take rapid and
constructive action. All sexual harassment complaints received will be
thoroughly investigated by the Village.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Any employee may make a complaint using the following procedures:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Electronic/Direct Communication With The Offender: If there is
behavior which constitutes sexual harassment in the workplace, the harassed
employee should directly, firmly and clearly communicate that the conduct is
unwelcome and request that the offending behavior stop. The initial message may
be verbal, but documentation of the notice should be made. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memorandum.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Report/Contact With Supervisory Personnel: At the same time direct
communication is undertaken, or in the event the employee feels threatened or
intimidated by the situation, the problem must be promptly reported to the
immediate supervisor of the person making the report, or if the employee feels
uncomfortable speaking with the immediate supervisor, or the immediate
supervisor is the source of the problem, to a department head, Ethics Officer,
or an appropriate member of management.
The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual harassment must
not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there are no witnesses
and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other responsible officer, the
Village will not be presumed to have knowledge of the harassment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Resolution Outside The Village: All Village employees have the right
to contact the Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a
formal complaint with those entities.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Documentation Of Incident: Documentation of any incident may be
submitted with any report (what was said or done, the date, the time and the
place), including, but not limited to, written records such as letters, notes,
memos and telephone messages.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and
investigated regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the
Village. However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment
charges and the difficulties associated with their investigation and the
questions of credibility involved, the claimant's willing cooperation is a
vital component of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Any elected official may make a complaint of sexual harassment and seek
independent review of such according to the following policy:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â An elected official who either observes another elected official
engage in sexual harassment or believes themselves to be the object of sexual
harassment by another elected official may report such conduct for independent
review to the Village Attorney. If the Village Attorney believes a conflict
exists which prevents her or him from conducting an independent review, the
Village Attorney must notify the Village of such conflict. Upon receiving
notification of the conflict, the Board of Trustees shall authorize the
engagement of outside legal counsel to conduct the review.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The Village Attorney or outside legal counsel shall conduct an
independent review of the allegations and provide any findings to the corporate
authorities of the Village. Any documents, communications or other records
created pursuant to the review shall remain confidential, subject to attorney-
client privilege, and will not be disclosed unless such disclosure is
authorized by resolution with the concurrence of a majority of all members then
holding office on the Board of Trustees, including the Mayor, or as otherwise
required by applicable local, state, or federal law.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Such records shall also be presumed as exempt from disclosure under
the Freedom of Information Act, to the extent it is applicable. (Ord. 2018-01,
1-3-2018; amd. Ord. 2020-1, 1-21-2020)
1-15-4: PROHIBITION ON RETALIATION FOR REPORTING SEXUAL HARASSMENT ALLEGATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The Village prohibits retaliation against any individual who reports
sexual harassment. Specifically, no Village official, Village agent, Village
employee or Village agency or office shall take any retaliatory action against
any Village employee due to a Village employee's:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this
chapter;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Participation in any investigation, hearing or inquiry into any
violation of this chapter before any public body; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â For the purposes of this chapter, retaliatory action means the
reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or
change in the terms or conditions of employment of any Village employee that is
taken in retaliation for a Village employee's involvement in protected activity
pursuant to this chapter.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a
report is not substantiated, as long as it was made in good faith. In addition,
any witness will be protected from retaliation.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The State Officials and Employees Ethics Act 1  similarly provides
whistleblower protection from retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge,
suspension, demotion, or denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in
retaliation for an employee who does any of the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, State agency, or
other State employee that the State employee reasonably believes is in
violation of a law, rule, or regulation; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, State agency or other State
employee; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions of
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act 1 , an employer may not retaliate
against an employee who discloses information in a court, an administrative
hearing, or before a legislative commission or committee, or in any other
proceeding, where the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the
information discloses a violation of a State or Federal law, rule, or
regulation. In addition, an employer may not retaliate against an employee for
disclosing information to a government or law enforcement agency, where the
employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of a State or Federal law, rule, or regulation 2 .
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â According to the Illinois Human Rights Act 3 , it is a civil rights
violation for a person, or for two (2) or more people to conspire, to retaliate
against a person because they have opposed that which they reasonably and in
good faith believes to be sexual harassment in employment or because they have
made a charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted, or participated in an
investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the Illinois Human Rights Act.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Any employee who feels they have been unlawfully retaliated against
should register a complaint with their immediate supervisor, department head,
Ethics Officer, or an appropriate member of management. (Ord. 2018-01, 1-3-
2018)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/15-10.
1 1. 740 ILCS 174/15(a).
2 2. 740 ILCS 174/15(b).
3 3. 775 ILCS 5/6-101.
1-15-5: THE INVESTIGATION:
Any reported allegations of harassment or retaliation will be investigated
promptly. The Village will make every reasonable effort to conduct an
investigation in a responsible and confidential manner. However, it is
impossible to guarantee absolute confidentiality. The investigation may include
individual interviews with the parties involved, and where necessary, with
individuals who may have observed the alleged conduct or may have other
relevant knowledge. The Village reserves the right and hereby provides notice
that third parties may be used to investigate claims of harassment. Employees
must cooperate in any investigation of workplace wrongdoing or risk
disciplinary action, up to and including termination. (Ord. 2018-01, 1-3-2018)
1-15-6: CONSEQUENCES OF A VIOLATION OF THE PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
Whether and what action constitutes sexual harassment or retaliation will be
determined by the Village based on a review of the facts and circumstances of
each situation. Misconduct constituting sexual harassment or retaliation will
be dealt with appropriately. Responsive action may include, for example,
training, referral to counseling and/or disciplinary action such as warning,
reprimand, withholding of a promotion or pay increase, reassignment, temporary
suspension without pay or termination, as the Village believes appropriate
under the circumstances. In addition to any and all other discipline that may
be applicable pursuant to Village policies, employment agreements, procedures,
employee handbooks and/or collective bargaining agreements, any person who
violates this chapter or the Prohibition on Sexual Harassment contained in the
State Officials and Employee Ethics Act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/5-65,
may be subject to a fine of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per
offense, applicable discipline up to and including termination by the Village
and any applicable fines and penalties established pursuant to local ordinance,
State law or Federal law. Each violation may constitute a separate offense. Any
discipline imposed by the Village shall be separate and distinct from any
penalty imposed by an Ethics Commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a
court of law or a State or Federal agency. (Ord. 2018-01, 1-3-2018)
1-15-7: CONSEQUENCES FOR KNOWINGLY MAKING A FALSE REPORT:
A false report is defined as a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser
who seeks to use the report to accomplish some end other than stopping sexual
harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false report is
not made in good faith. Given the seriousness of the consequences for the
accused, a false or frivolous report is a severe offense that can itself result
in disciplinary action. Any person who intentionally makes a false report
alleging a violation of any provision of this chapter shall be subject to
discipline up to and including termination pursuant to applicable Village
policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/or
collective bargaining agreements.
In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a
violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act to
an Ethics Commission, an Inspector General, the State Police, a State's
Attorney, the Attorney General, or any other law enforcement official is guilty
of a Class A misdemeanor. An Ethics Commission may levy an administrative fine
of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) against any person who intentionally
makes a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation. (Ord. 2018-01, 1-3-2018)
1-15-8: ADDITIONAL RESOURCES:
An employee who believes that his or her complaint of sexual harassment or
retaliation was not properly investigated or addressed by the Village or wishes
to obtain additional information regarding his or her legal rights may contact:
Illinois Department of Human Rights
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (312)Â Â Â 814-6200 Chicago
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (312)Â Â Â 263-1579 TDD Chicago
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (217)Â Â Â 785-5100 Springfield
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (217)Â Â Â 785-5119 TDD Springfield
Illinois Human Rights Commission
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (312)Â Â Â 814-6269 Chicago
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (312)Â Â Â 263-1579 TDD Chicago
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (217)Â Â Â 785-4350 Springfield
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (217)Â Â Â 785-5119 TDD Springfield
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (312)Â Â Â 353-2713 Chicago
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (800)Â Â Â 669-3362
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (800)Â Â Â 800-3302 TDD
(Ord. 2018-01, 1-3-2018)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
BOARD OF FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSIONERS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Board Created, Term Of Office
2-1-2: Qualifications, Oath, Bond, Removal From Office
2-1-3: Compensation
2-1-4: Secretary Of The Board
2-1-5: Powers Generally
2-1-6: Appointment Of Fire And Police Department Members
2-1-1: BOARD CREATED, TERM OF OFFICE:
There is hereby created a board of fire and police commissioners consisting of
three (3) members whose terms of office shall be three (3) years, and until
their respective successors shall be appointed and qualified. (1987 Code)
2-1-2: QUALIFICATIONS, OATH, BOND, REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
The members of the board shall possess the qualifications required of other
officers of the village, shall take oath or affirmation of office, and give
bond in the same manner as other appointive officers of the village. They shall
be subject to removal of office as such other officers. (1987 Code)
2-1-3: COMPENSATION:
Each member of the board shall be compensated for any expenses incurred in the
discharge of duties, upon presentation of documented expenses. (1987 Code)
2-1-4: SECRETARY OF THE BOARD:
The board may employ a secretary or may designate one of its own members to act
as such. The secretary shall keep the minutes of the board's proceedings, shall
be custodian of all papers pertaining to the business of the board, shall keep
a record of all examinations held and shall perform such other duties as the
board shall prescribe. (1987 Code)
2-1-5: POWERS GENERALLY:
The board of commissioners shall make such rules, appointments and removals,
and shall have such other and further powers as is contained in an act as is
specified "to provide for the appointment of a board of fire and police
commissioners in all cities, villages, and incorporated towns of this state
having a population of not less than seven thousand (7,000) nor more than two
hundred thousand (200,000) and prescribing the powers and duties of such
board," approved April 2, 1903, as amended 1 . (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/10-2.1-1 et seq.
2-1-6: APPOINTMENT OF FIRE AND POLICE DEPARTMENT MEMBERS:
The board of fire and police commissioners shall appoint all officers and
members of the fire and police departments, except the chiefs of the police and
fire departments, which appointments are retained by the president and board of
trustees, and the deputy chiefs of the police and fire departments, which
appointments are retained by their respective chief with the consent of the
president and board of trustees. All appointments to such departments other
than that of the lowest rank shall be from the rank next below that to which
the appointment shall be made. (Ord. 11-69, 10-17-2011)
CHAPTER 2
POLICE PENSION BOARD
SECTION:
2-2-1: Board Created, Election And Appointment, Terms Of Office
2-2-2: Duties
2-2-1: BOARD CREATED, ELECTION AND APPOINTMENT, TERMS OF OFFICE:
There is hereby created a Police Pension Board as is provided by statute 1 .
The Board shall consist of five (5) members; two (2) of whom shall be appointed
by the Village President, and two (2) of whom shall be elected from the regular
police force, and one from the beneficiaries under the Police Pension Fund Act
as created by statute 2 . (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 40 ILCS 5/3-128.
2 2. 40 ILCS 5/3-101.
2-2-2: DUTIES:
The Police Pension Board shall have the powers and duties delegated to it by
statute 3 . (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
3 3. 40 ILCS 5/3-132.
CHAPTER 3
BOARD OF TRUSTEES, FIREFIGHTERS' PENSION FUND 1
SECTION:
2-3-1: Established
2-3-2: Trustees Of Fund; Term
2-3-3: Sources Of Revenue
Â 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  5-1-8 of this Code.
2-3-1: ESTABLISHED:
There shall be a Firefighters' Pension Fund established in the Village, as
provided by statute. (Ord. 87-7, 8-3-1987)
2-3-2: TRUSTEES OF FUND; TERM:
Â Â Â The board of trustees of the Firefighters' Pension Fund shall consist of the
following members:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Two (2) members appointed by the President of the Village;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Two (2) members chosen from firefighters who are active participants in
the Firefightersâ€™ Pension Fund; and
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â One (1) member who has retired under the terms of the Firefightersâ€™
Pension Fund Act of 1919, or such other members as may be provided from time to
time by state statute.
(Ord. 87-7, 8-3-1987; amd. Ord. CO-2024-04, 4-1-2024)
2-3-3: SOURCES OF REVENUE:
There shall be deposited in the Pension Fund the sums required by law, which
shall include:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The required percent per month to be deducted from the salary of the
active firefighters, as required by statute.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â All rewards made to the Fire Department.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The proceeds of such tax as may be levied for the Firefighters' Pension
Fund.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The proceeds of all license fees paid by foreign fire insurance
companies. (Ord. 87-7, 8-3-1987)
CHAPTER 4
BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
2-4-1: Board Created, Powers And Duties Generally
2-4-2: Members Designated, Organization
2-4-1: BOARD CREATED, POWERS AND DUTIES GENERALLY:
There is created a Board of Local Improvements to do and perform all the duties
and functions incumbent upon, and exercise all the rights of a Board of Local
Improvements, all as provided in and by an act of the General Assembly of the
State entitled "An Act Concerning Local Improvements 1 ", approved June 14,
1897, and all acts amendatory thereof or supplemental thereto. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/9-2-1.
2-4-2: MEMBERS DESIGNATED, ORGANIZATION:
The members of the Board of Trustees are designated and appointed members of
the Board of Local Improvements. The members of the Board of Trustees together
with the Village President shall constitute the Board of Local Improvements.
The Village President shall be president of the Board of Local Improvements and
the Village Clerk is hereby appointed secretary of said Board of Local
Improvements. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 5
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-5-1: Planning Commission Created
2-5-2: Duties
2-5-3: Other Duties Regarding Official Plan And Map
2-5-1: PLANNING COMMISSION CREATED:
The Planning Commission of the Village shall be constituted by the Zoning Board
of Appeals 1  acting in ex officio capacity, as authorized by ordinance. The
Planning Commission may adopt its own bylaws. (Ord. 92-32, 9-8-1992)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See Chapter 6 of this Title.
2-5-2: DUTIES:
The Planning Commission shall discharge the following duties under this
Chapter:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â As directed by the Village Board of Trustees, to initiate, direct, and
review from time to time, studies of the provisions of the zoning title and to
make reports of its recommendations to the Village Board;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â As directed by the Village Board of Trustees, to hear and decide all
matters upon which it is required to pass under the zoning title; and
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â To keep written records of its proceedings which shall be open to
inspection by the Village Board of Trustees at all times. (Ord. 92-32, 9-8-
1992)
2-5-3: OTHER DUTIES REGARDING OFFICIAL PLAN AND MAP:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The Planning Commission shall have the power to prepare and recommend
to the Board of Trustees from time to time, such changes in the Plan as may be
deemed necessary by the Board of Trustees or by the Planning Commission;
provided, however that such changes shall not affect the general principles of
the Plan as adopted.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The Planning Commission shall have power to give aid to the officials
of the Village charged with the direction of projects for improvements embraced
within the Official Plan, to further the making of such improvements, and
generally to promote the realization of the Official Plan and exercise such
other powers germane to the powers granted by State law 1 , as may be conferred
by the Board of Trustees.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The Planning Commission shall prepare and recommend to the Board of
Trustees from time to time, plans for specific improvements in pursuance of the
Official Plan. (Ord. 92-32, 9-8-1992)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-12-5.
CHAPTER 6
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
2-6-1: Board Created, Organization
2-6-2: Jurisdiction And Authority
2-6-3: Zoning Special Use And Amendment Duties
2-6-1: BOARD CREATED, ORGANIZATION:
The Zoning Board of Appeals shall be created in accordance with the applicable
statutes of the State 1  as follows:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Membership: The Zoning Board of Appeals shall consist of seven (7)
members.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Appointments, Officers, Vacancies: All appointments to the Zoning Board
of Appeals shall be made by the President with the consent of the Village Board
of Trustees. One of the members so appointed shall be named as chairman at the
time of appointment. Vacancies shall be filled as soon as possible for the
unexpired term of any member whose place has become vacant. In the event that
the office of chairman is vacated for any reason, the Village Board of Trustees
shall immediately appoint at its option, either one of the remaining members on
the Board, or any member who is appointed to fill such vacancy on the Board as
the new chairman.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Meetings: All meetings of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be held at
the call of the chairman and at such other times as the Board may determine.
All testimony by witnesses at any hearing provided for in the zoning title 2
shall be given under oath. The chairman, or in his absence the acting chairman,
may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of
the Board shall be open to the public. The Board shall keep minutes of its
proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon every question, or if absent
or failing to vote, indicating that fact, and shall also keep records of its
examinations and other official actions. Every rule, regulation, every
amendment or repeal thereof, and every order, requirement, decision or
determination of the Board shall immediately be filed in the office of the
Village Clerk and shall be of public record. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-13-3.
2 2. See Title 10 of this Code.
2-6-2: JURISDICTION AND AUTHORITY:
The Zoning Board of Appeals is hereby invested with the following jurisdiction
and authority:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the Building Commissioner under the zoning title.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â To hear and decide variations from the terms provided in the zoning
title in the manner and subject to the standards set forth in said zoning
title.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â To hold public hearings in matters pertaining to applications for
special uses and amendments, and submit reports to the Village Board of
Trustees setting forth its findings and recommendations in the manner
prescribed in Section 10-10-7 of this Code for special uses and Section 10-10-
5 of this Code for amendments.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â To hear and decide all matters referred to it or upon which it is
required to pass under the zoning title. (1987 Code)
2-6-3: ZONING SPECIAL USE AND AMENDMENT DUTIES:
The Zoning Board of Appeals is hereby designated as the proper commission or
committee to post or publish notices as required by statute and the zoning
title pertaining to special uses and proposed amendments to the regulations
imposed and the districts created by the zoning title, and to make a written
report and recommendation to the Village Board of Trustees on any such proposed
amendments or special uses. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 7
CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-7-1: Commissioners Appointed, Organization, Functions
2-7-2: Classification Of Officers And Employees, Exceptions
2-7-3: Formulation Of Rules
2-7-1: COMMISSIONERS APPOINTED, ORGANIZATION, FUNCTIONS:
The President of the Village shall forthwith appoint three (3) Civil Service
Commissioners pursuant to State statutes 1 . Said Civil Service Commissioners
shall be organized and shall function in accordance with the statutes of the
State 2 . (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/10-1-1.
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/10-1-1.
2-7-2: CLASSIFICATION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES, EXCEPTIONS:
Pursuant to State law 3  the Civil Service Commissioners shall classify all of
the offices and places of employment in the Village, except those offices and
places excluded by statute 4  and except those offices of policemen and firemen
heretofore subject to the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners of the
Village. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
3 3. 65 ILCS 5/10-1-3.
4 4. 65 ILCS 5/10-1-17.
2-7-3: FORMULATION OF RULES:
The Civil Service Commission shall make and publish rules to carry out the
purposes of the Commission pursuant to State law 5 . (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
5 5. 65 ILCS 5/10-1-5 and 5/10-1-6.
CHAPTER 8
RESERVED
CHAPTER 9
EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM BOARD
SECTION:
2-9-1: Joint Emergency Telephone System Board
2-9-1: JOINT EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM BOARD:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Establishment; Membership; Authority And Duties:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Establishment: Pursuant to resolution no. 2018-22 (adopted on April
2, 2018), the Village approved an intergovernmental agreement entitled
"Intergovernmental Agreement Establishing the IKE Joint Emergency Telephone
System Board and Providing for the Consolidation of and Operation of Certain
Public Safety Answering Points and the 'Eisenhower Emergency Communication
Center' ("IKE 911 Center") (Participating Members: Village of Broadview and the
Village of Maywood)", (the "intergovernmental agreement") that provided for the
establishment of an intergovernmental cooperative venture known as the
"Eisenhower Emergency Communication Center" (also referred to as the "IKE 911
Center") for the operation and maintenance of a centralized, combined emergency
services dispatch and communication system that includes
9-1-1 services and wireless E-
9-1-1 services (the "system"). The intergovernmental agreement also provided
for the creation of the IKE Joint Emergency Telephone System Board.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Membership; Authority And Duties: The members of IKE Joint Emergency
Telephone System Board shall be comprised of the appointed public safety
employees from the participating members (e.g., Fire Chiefs and Police Chiefs)
plus an appointed public member and an appointed PSAP representative. The
authority and duties of the IKE Joint Emergency Telephone System Board and its
members shall be governed by the applicable provisions of the intergovernmental
agreement and the Emergency Telephone System Act 1  and any other applicable
laws.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Dissolution Of Local ETSB, Re-Instatement:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Dissolution Of Local ETSB: Pursuant to this chapter, the Village's
ETSB was dissolved effective upon the date of the regulatory approval of the
IKE 911 Center and the IKE JETSB by the
9-1-1 Administrator of the Illinois Department of State Police.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Re-Instatement Of Local ETSB: In the event the Village withdraws
from participation in the IKE 911 Center, to the extent permitted by applicable
laws and regulations, the Village will either take the necessary corporate
actions to re-instate its local ETSB or join another Joint Emergency Telephone
System Board.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Use Of ETSB Funds; Surcharge Funds:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Use Of ETSB Funds: Under the intergovernmental agreement, the
Village, in its own discretion, may use or expend any of its ETSB funds,
including any surcharge funds, to pay for budgeted items or obligations that
exist in its current 2017/2018 ETSB budget in accordance with the applicable
laws, including the Emergency Telephone System Act 1 , the Wireless Emergency
Telephone Safety Act 2  and the Prepaid Wireless
9-1-1 Surcharge Act 3 , except that upon termination of the Village's ETSB, any
reserve funds held by the Village ETSB shall be remitted to the IKE JETSB in
compliance with the intergovernmental agreement, specifically section 6.3(G).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Surcharge Funds: Upon dissolution of the Village's ETSB and subject
to the terms of the intergovernmental agreement and the Village's continued
participation in the IKE JETSB, all monies received or collected by the Village
that are intended to be used to pay for the operation and maintenance of the
IKE 911 Center and its system from any surcharge or revenue source authorized
by any Federal or State law, including section 15.3 of the Emergency Telephone
System Act 4 , the Wireless Emergency Telephone Safety Act 5  and the Prepaid
Wireless
9-1-1 Surcharge Act 6 , shall be transferred to the IKE JETSB for deposit and
expenditure by the IKE JETSB in accordance with the intergovernmental agreement
and applicable Federal or State law. (Ord. 2018-06, 4-2-2018)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 750/1 et seq.
1 1. 50 ILCS 750/1 et seq.
2 2. 50 ILCS 751/1 et seq.
3 3. 50 ILCS 753/1 et seq.
4 4. 50 ILCS 750/15.3.
5 5. 50 ILCS 751/1 et seq.
6 6. 50 ILCS 753/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 10
ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-10-1: Created
2-10-2: Qualifications Generally
2-10-3: Powers Generally
2-10-4: Chairperson, Secretary
2-10-1: CREATED:
There is hereby created a Zoning Commission consisting of at least three (3)
members, who shall be appointed by the Village President with the confirmation
of the Board of Trustees. The members shall serve for one year terms, or less
if the Zoning Commission ceases to exist as set forth by statute. (Ord. 2000-
05, 5-15-2000)
2-10-2: QUALIFICATIONS GENERALLY:
The members shall be chosen as near as practicable to represent the
residential, commercial and industrial areas of the Village, and such other
members of the community as the Village President deems appropriate. (Ord.
2000-05, 5-15-2000)
2-10-3: POWERS GENERALLY:
Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-13-2, the Zoning Commission
shall recommend any changes to the districts, the boundaries of the districts,
the uses within the districts and the regulations pertaining thereto. A
tentative report and ordinances shall be prepared, and a public hearing held as
set forth in said statute. Thirty (30) days after the conclusion of the
hearing, a final report shall be submitted to the corporate authorities for
review. (Ord. 2000-05, 5-15-2000)
2-10-4: CHAIRPERSON, SECRETARY:
The Commission shall appoint one of its members as chairperson, and shall also
appoint a secretary to be custodian of records of the Commission. The secretary
or other such person designated by the Commission, shall keep minutes of all of
its meetings and hearings. Such secretary or person may receive compensation
for services, and the Commission shall be reimbursed by the Village for all
expenses incurred. (Ord. 2000-05, 5-15-2000)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Applicability Of Provisions
3-1-2: Application For License Or Certificate Of Registration
3-1-2-1: Temporary Business License
3-1-3: Signatures Required On License Or Registration
3-1-4: Investigation, Inspections
3-1-4-1: Public Ways
3-1-5: Termination Of License Or Registration, Payment Of Fee
3-1-6: Bonds For Certain Businesses
3-1-7: License To Be Posted
3-1-8: Building And Premises
3-1-9: Location
3-1-10: Nuisances Prohibited
3-1-11: Revocation Of License
3-1-1: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
All business, commercial and industrial activities in the village of whatever
nature except those listed in section
3-1A-2 of this chapter are required to obtain a license to operate. No person,
firm or corporation not otherwise licensed by this code except those engaged in
a business listed in section
3-1A-2 of this chapter shall engage in any commercial, business or industrial
activity of whatever kind in the village without first having obtained a
business license as provided in this chapter. Application for a business
license shall be made in conformance with the requirements of section
3-1-2 of this chapter relating to application for licenses. (Ord. 2003-02, 3-3-
2003)
3-1-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE OR CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION:
Each application for a license or a certificate of registration shall state, at
a minimum, the following:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Whether the application is for a new business, a change of ownership,
or a change of business location;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The name, home address, telephone number, social security number,
driver's license number, date of birth, fax number, and e-mail address of the
applicant as well as his relationship to the business;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The business name, name it is doing business as (if different), type of
business, nature of business, business address, telephone number, FEIN number,
state sales tax number, present zoning of property where business is to be
located, and whether the business is a permitted or special use;
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Whether changes will be made to the interior or exterior of the
business premises;
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â For the premises of the building, the square footage of the interior,
the number of employees, the hours of operation, the number of delivery or
service vehicles, and whether any flammable or hazardous material will be used
or stored;
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â For each owner, partner or officer of the business, his or her name,
title/position, home address, telephone number, social security number,
driver's license number, and date of birth;
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â If the business is a corporation, the corporation name, address,
telephone number, and name of contact;
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â If the property owner is different from the applicant, the property
owner's name, address, telephone number, and, if applicable, a copy of a lease
agreement;
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Whether a liquor license, vending license, or other specialty license
will be applied for; and
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Any other information required by the village in order for them to
administer the provisions of this code. (Ord. 2003-02, 3-3-2003)
3-1-2-1: TEMPORARY BUSINESS LICENSE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any business that engages in commercial activity within the village may
apply for a temporary business license.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â A temporary business license shall be issued at the sole discretion of
the building commissioner upon satisfactory completion of a temporary business
license application and payment of a fee in the amount of fifty dollars
($50.00). Said application shall be available through the office of the
building commissioner.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â An applicant herein must submit an application for a business license
pursuant to section
3-1-2 of this chapter, and further, must comply with all village code
regulations.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â No temporary business license shall issue for more than sixty (60) days
and may be revoked at any time at the sole discretion of the building
commissioner. (Ord. 13-69, 10-21-2013)
3-1-3: SIGNATURES REQUIRED ON LICENSE OR REGISTRATION:
Each license or registration issued shall bear the signature of the president
and clerk in the absence of any provisions to the contrary. (Ord. 2003-02, 3-3-
2003)
3-1-4: INVESTIGATION, INSPECTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Application And Inspection Procedures:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â An incomplete application form will not be processed until all
information on the application form is provided. Completed application forms
shall be submitted to the village clerk as set forth in section
3-1A-1 of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â An inspection by the health department is necessary for business in
connection with the care and/or handling of food, the prevention of nuisances,
and the spread of disease for the protection of health. The applicant must
contact the health department to coordinate an inspection, if such an
inspection is necessary. The village building department shall coordinate
building, fire, health, electrical, and plumbing inspections, as required. If
any deficiencies are found during an inspection, corrections must be made and a
reinspection scheduled with the appropriate inspector. No license shall be
issued until the property passes all inspections.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Once the village clerk receives notification that the property has
passed all necessary inspections, the village clerk shall forward the
application to the chairman of the licensing committee. The licensing committee
shall review the application along with the inspection reports and shall issue
a recommendation to the village board of trustees.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â If the village board of trustees votes to grant the application, the
village clerk shall issue the license to the applicant. If the village board of
trustees votes to deny the license, such vote constitutes final action on the
application and no further processing of the application shall take place. The
village board of trustees may also vote to return the application to the
licensing committee for further processing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â No business will be allowed to open or operate without a valid
business license or registration.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â When a business already operating in the village changes ownership,
the new owner must apply for a new business license. When a business already
operating in the village changes location or increases its square footage, the
business must apply for an amended business license, including paying all
increases in applicable licensing fees. If a business is changing location, the
new location must submit to all inspection procedures. Business, vending,
cigarette, and liquor licenses are not transferable to a new owner.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â No license shall be issued to any person, business, or entity
indebted to the village unless and until such indebtedness is paid to the
village, or until the corporate authorities discharge such indebtedness in
accordance with the terms and conditions fixed by the corporate authorities.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Submission To Inspections, Analysis:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Whenever inspection of the premises used for or in connection with
the operation of a licensed business or occupation is required or is reasonably
necessary to secure compliance with this code or other ordinances or to detect
violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee or the person in
charge of the premises to be inspected to admit thereto for the purpose of
making the inspection, any officer or employee of the village who is authorized
or directed to make such an inspection at any reasonable time that admission is
requested.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to secure conformance with any provision of this code or other
ordinance or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee
to give to any authorized officer or employee of the village requesting the
same sufficient samples of such material or commodity for such analysis upon
request.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the village
president may revoke the license of any licensed proprietor of any licensed
business who refuses to permit any officer or employee who is authorized to
make an inspection or to take such samples to make the inspection, or to take
an adequate sample of such commodity, or who interferes with such officer or
employee while in the performance of his duty in making such inspection. No
license shall be revoked for such cause unless written demand is made upon the
licensee or the person in charge of the premises in the name of the village.
Any such revocation shall be consistent with the procedures set out in section
3-1-11 of this chapter. (Ord. 2003-02, 3-3-2003)
3-1-4-1: PUBLIC WAYS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any business or occupations on
premises which abut a public way, to litter or to permit the accumulation of
any paper, rubbish or refuse upon that portion of the public way abutting said
premises. It shall be unlawful for any person using any part of a public way
for or in connection with his business or occupation to litter or to permit the
accumulation of any paper, rubbish or refuse upon the portion of the public way
so used. It shall be the duty of a business which is required to either be
licensed or obtain a certificate of registration under the provisions of this
chapter to remove snow and ice from the public way. (Ord. 2003-02, 3-3-2003)
3-1-5: TERMINATION OF LICENSE OR REGISTRATION, PAYMENT OF FEE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Annual License: All annual licenses or registration shall terminate on
December 31 of the calendar year. The village clerk shall mail all licensees a
statement of the time of expiration of licenses held by the licensees three (3)
weeks prior to the date of expiration. The failure to send out such notice or
the failure of the licensee to receive it shall not excuse the licensee from
the failure to obtain a new license or a renewal thereof, nor shall it be a
defense in any action for operating without a license.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Payment Of Fees: The fees shall be paid at the time the license or
registration is issued. When an applicant has not engaged in business until
after the expiration of part of a current year, the license fee shall be
prorated monthly and the fee paid for such period during which the business has
been or will be conducted.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Advance Payment: No such payment of any license fee in advance of the
issuance of the license in due form shall entitle or authorize any person to
any of the rights or privileges conferred by the issuance of any license or to
the opening or maintaining of any business or establishment contrary to any of
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 2003-02, 3-3-2003)
3-1-6: BONDS FOR CERTAIN BUSINESSES:
As a prerequisite to the issuance of the license and in addition to the fees
set forth in this title, the following enumerated businesses, trades and
occupations shall submit to the village a copy of their certificate of
liability insurance, and shall also post a bond with the village in the amount
set out beside their names with sureties to be approved by the president:
Building wreckersÂ Â Â $25,000.00
Catch basin and sewer cleaners (see section
4-5-5
of this code)Â Â Â 20,000.00
Electrical contractors (see chapter 10 of this title)Â Â Â 10,000.00
Excavators (see section
8-2-5 of this code)Â Â Â 10,000.00
House movers (see chapter 12 of this title)Â Â Â 25,000.00
Masonry contractorsÂ Â Â 10,000.00
Plumbing contractorsÂ Â Â 10,000.00
ScavengersÂ Â Â 5,000.00
Sign contractors (see section 9-8-5 of this code)Â Â Â 25,000.00
(Ord. 2003-02, 3-3-2003)
3-1-7: LICENSE TO BE POSTED:
It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the
village to keep his license posted in plain view on the premises used for such
business at all times. (Ord. 2003-02, 3-3-2003)
3-1-8: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business if the premises and
building to be used for the purpose do not fully comply with the requirements
of this code or other ordinances of the village. No such license shall be
issued for the conduct of any business or performance of any act that would
involve a violation of the zoning regulations. (Ord. 2003-02, 3-3-2003)
3-1-9: LOCATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Schools And Churches: It shall be unlawful to establish or operate any
hospital, foundry, machine shop, laundry, sanitarium, lumberyard, public
garage, filling station, or any business liable to cause excessive noise or
that will endanger public health or safety within two hundred feet (200') of
any property used for church or school purposes unless the written consent of
the governing body of such church or school is first obtained.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Residential Districts: It shall be unlawful to establish, maintain or
operate any automobile rental agency, public garage or building for the
keeping, repair or storage of automobiles or other like vehicles for hire or
profit, any gasoline station, hospital, reformatory, rescue or shelter
institution, lumberyard, foundry, machine shop, laundry, theater, medical
dispensary, sanitarium or any other business liable to create any noise or be
in any way objectionable to a residential neighborhood, anywhere in the village
where a majority of the buildings within a radius of three hundred feet (300')
are used for residence purposes without first securing the written consent of
the owners of two-thirds (2/3) of the property within such radius.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Frontage Consents Required: Wherever a provision of this code requires
that frontage consents be obtained to operate a specific business, it shall be
unlawful for any person to establish or operate such business without having
obtained the required consent.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No initial license to engage in, conduct or carry on the following
businesses shall be issued nor shall any building permit be issued for the
erection of any structure or building to conduct or carry on the following
businesses unless the applicant for such business license or for such building
permit shall first obtain frontage consents: tourist courts, trailer parks,
rollerskating rinks, and dance halls.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The frontage consents referred to herein shall be obtained from the
owners of property lying within a radius of three hundred feet (300') from the
extremities of the tract of property on which the business is to be located.
The applicant must obtain the consent of two-thirds (2/3) of the property
owners of property within that radius in order to obtain a license and a
building permit.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Whenever the consent of adjoining or neighboring owners is required
as a prerequisite to the conduct of any business or occupation or the location
of any establishment, such consent shall be obtained by securing the necessary
signatures to a written consent petition. Each petition shall be filed with the
village clerk with the application when signed. It shall be unlawful to forge
any name to any petition concerning frontage requirements or to falsely
represent that the names thereon have been properly placed thereon if such is
not the fact.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The frontage consent requirements contained herein shall not be
construed to amend or change any zoning provision of the village.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Change Of Locations: The location of any licensed business or
occupation or of any permitted act may be changed unless otherwise specifically
set forth in this code, provided, ten (10) days' notice thereof is given to the
village clerk, and provided, that the building and zoning requirements are
therein complied with. (1987 Code)
3-1-10: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
No business, licensed or not, shall be so conducted or operated as to amount to
a nuisance in fact. (1987 Code)
3-1-11: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The president shall have the power to suspend or revoke any license issued
under the provisions of this code for good and sufficient cause or if the
president determines that the licensee shall have violated any of the
provisions of this code or any statutes of the state. However, no such license
shall be revoked or suspended except after a public hearing, first having given
five (5) days' written notice of said hearing to the licensee affording the
licensee an opportunity to appear and defend. The public hearing shall be held
before a license commissioner appointed by the president, who shall report in
writing his findings to the president.
If the president shall determine after such hearing that the license should be
revoked or suspended, the president shall state, within fifteen (15) days, the
reason or reasons for such determination in a written order of revocation or
suspension and shall serve a copy of such order upon the licensee. Such
revocation may be in addition to any fine imposed. (Ord. 2003-02, 3-3-2003)
ARTICLE A. BUSINESS LICENSE AND PERMIT FEES
SECTION:
3-1A-1: Schedule Of License Fees
3-1A-2: Business Registration Required; Charge
3-1A-3: Application, Payment
3-1A-4: Recovery Of Professional Fees
3-1A-1: SCHEDULE OF LICENSE FEES:
The annual license fees set forth in subsection A of this section shall be
charged to the various businesses, trades and occupations listed that are
located or doing business within the Village. For any business, trade or
occupation not specifically listed below, the annual fee shall be based upon
square footage, as set forth in subsection B of this section. (Ord. 2003-02, 3-
3-2003)
Commercial buildings or spaces may be subdivided into separate suites provided
that said suites comply with all other requirements of the Village Code,
including specific requirements for the type of businesses that are operating
or will operate within said suite spaces. The owner of the commercial building
or space shall be solely responsible for the costs of repairs or construction
related to the subdivision of the commercial building or space into separate
suites. All commercial buildings or spaces that are divided into separate
suites shall, at a minimum, meet the requirements of a general office including
any applicable building, plumbing, electrical, or other Village Code
requirements. In order to subdivide the commercial building or space into
suites, the owner of said building, or their agent, shall be present to the
Village building plans, including but not limited to blueprints showing the
proposed subdivision of the building. After presentation of said plans, the
owner shall be required to meet with the Villageâ€™s Safety Committee and shall
further be required to present a statement of the prospective uses of said
suites. The commercial building or space must also pass all applicable
inspections and the owner shall be required to acknowledge, in writing, that
they understand and agree that each tenant shall be required to obtain a
business license from the Village, where required, or to register their
business, when required, with the Village. The annual registration fee for any
commercial building or spaces divided into suites shall be two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00). The initial inspection fees for any such commercial
buildings or spaces divided into suites shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00)
or shall be eleven cents ($0.11) per square foot, whichever is higher.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Specific Businesses:
  Fee
                                         Fee
Residential:                             Â 
Â Rooming house/bed and breakfast        $300.00 plus $15.00 per rental unit
Commercial:
Â Adult use                              $2,000.00 plus $0.01 per square foot
Â Auction room                           $150.00
Â Automobile laundry (vehicle wash)      225.00
Â Automobile truck/trailer rental        See subsection B1 of this section
  (including yard)
Â Automotive vehicle sales (including    See subsection B1 of this section
  yard)
Â Bakery                                 $250.00 plus health inspection
Â Banks and financial institutions       $200.00
Â Blueprinting and photocopying          150.00
  establishment
Â Bowling alley                          $20.00 per lane or alley
Â Building material sales (including     See subsection B1 of this section
  yard)
Â Candy store                            See subsection B1 of this section plus
                                         health inspection
Â Contractors and construction office    $150.00
Â Contractors and construction office    See subsection B2 of this section
  (including yard)
Â Convenience store                      $250.00 plus health inspection
Â Currency exchange                      $200.00
Â Delicatessen                           $250.00 plus health inspection
Â Drive-in restaurant                    $250.00 plus health inspection
Â Exterminating shop                     $200.00 plus hazardous material
                                         inspection
Â Food carryout service                  $250.00 plus health inspection
Â Food store                             See subsection B1 of this section plus
                                         health inspection
Â Fortune tellers/psychics               $350.00
Â Gasoline/fuel station                  $225.00 plus hazardous material
                                         inspection
Â Golf courses                           $1,000.00 plus health inspection
Â Gun dealers                            $1,000.00 plus $0.01 per square foot
Â Home occupations                       $50.00
Â Hotel/motel                            $300.00 plus $20.00 per rental unit
Â Indoor theater                         $500.00
Â Job printing shop (retail)             See subsection B1 of this section
Â Machinery equipment sales              See subsection B2 of this section
Â Meat market                            $250.00 plus health inspection
                                         $250.00 annual license fee
  Mobile food vendors                    $125.00 annual license fee if
                                         purchased after July 1
                                         $50.00 1 day license fees
Â Pawnshop                               $500.00 plus $0.01 per square foot
Â Radio and television broadcasting      $200.00
  station
Â Radio, television and audio equipment  See subsection B1 of this section
  store
Â Recording studio                       $150.00
Â Restaurant                             $250.00 plus health inspection
Â Restaurant including live dancing and  $350.00 plus health inspection
  entertainment
Â Scavengers                             $600.00
Â Shooting ranges                        $1,000.00 plus $0.01 per square foot
Â Tattoo parlor                          $500.00 plus $0.01 per square foot
                                         plus health inspection
Â Tavern                                 $200.00
Â Tobacco sales (other than via a coin   100.00
  operated device)
Â Trailer/car/truck rental (including    See subsection B1 of this section
  yard)
Â Truck sales (including yard)           See subsection B2 of this section
Coin operated devices:
Â Operator                               $ 50.00
Â Proprietor                             100.00
Amusement devices, electronic or
mechanical:
Â Jukebox                                150.00 per unit
Â All other devices                      150.00 per unit
Laundry devices, washers and dryers:
Â Laundering machines only               20.00 per unit
Vending machines:                        Â 
Â Beverage, candy, snacks, dry goods and 30.00 per unit
  other
Â Food service                           60.00 per unit
Â Cigarette                              100.00 per unit
Â 
(Ord. 2006-01, 1-17-2006; amd. Ord. 2006-03, 2-6-2006; Ord. 2017-133, 9-18-
2017)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Other Businesses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Retail business/office establishments not otherwise specified in
subsection A of this section:
0 to 25,000 square feet        $150.00 plus $0.01 per square foot
25,001 to 50,000 square feet   $160.00 plus $0.01 per square foot
50,001 to 75,000 square feet   $170.00 plus $0.01 per square foot
75,001 to 100,000 square feet  $185.00 plus $0.01 per square foot
100,001 to 125,000 square feet $200.00 plus $0.01 per square foot
125,001 to 150,000 square feet $215.00 plus $0.01 per square foot
150,001 to 175,000 square feet $230.00 plus $0.01 per square foot
175,001 to 200,000 square feet $245.00 plus $0.01 per square foot
Over 200,000 square feet       $260.00 plus $0.01 per square foot
Â 
Where applicable, a hazardous material inspection fee applies.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Manufacturing, storage, assembly, warehousing, distributors,
fabricating, printers, processing and similar industrial zoned establishments:
Up to 5,000 square feet        $150.00
5,001 to 10,000 square feet    200.00
10,001 to 20,000 square feet   300.00
20,001 to 40,000 square feet   400.00
40,001 to 80,000 square feet   500.00
80,001 to 120,000 square feet  550.00
120,001 to 150,000 square feet 600.00
150,001 to 200,000 square feet 650.00
200,001 to 300,000 square feet 700.00
Over 300,001 square feet       800.00
Â 
Where applicable, a hazardous material inspection fee applies.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Inspections: Health and/or hazardous material inspections are required
for the businesses indicated in subsection A of this section. The fee for a
health inspection is one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00). The fee for a
hazardous material inspection is one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
(Ord. 2006-01, 1-17-2006; amd. Ord. CO-2024-13, 9-16-2024)
3-1A-2: BUSINESS REGISTRATION REQUIRED; CHARGE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â All businesses located in the Village which are solely engaged in any
of the business, professions or occupations listed below shall not be required
to obtain business licenses, but shall be required to register with the Village
as set forth in section
3-1-2 of this chapter:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The practice of architecture;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The practice of beauty culture;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Private business and vocational schools which have been issued a
certificate of approval by the State Superintendent of Education;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The practice of shorthand reporting;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The practice of dentistry;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â The administering of detection or deception examinations;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â The private detective business;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Insurance companies, insurance brokers, and insurance agencies;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â The practice of land surveying;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â The practice of law;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â The practice of medicine or midwifery for which a State license is
required;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 12.Â Â Â The practice of professional nursing;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 13.Â Â Â Businesses which operate and manage nursing homes; provided,
however, that all nursing homes located in the Village must comply with the
provisions of title 4 of this Code;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 14.Â Â Â The practice of optometry;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 15.Â Â Â The practice of pharmacy;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 16.Â Â Â The practice of physical therapy;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 17.Â Â Â The practice of podiatry;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 18.Â Â Â The practice of professional engineering;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 19.Â Â Â The practice of psychology;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 20.Â Â Â The public accounting business;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 21.Â Â Â Real estate brokers and real estate salespersons;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 22.Â Â Â The practice of structural engineering;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 23.Â Â Â The practice of social work;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 24.Â Â Â The business of tree experts;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 25.Â Â Â The practice of veterinary medicine and surgery;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 26.Â Â Â The practice of installing water wells and pumps;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 27.Â Â Â The practice of home childcare;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 28.Â Â Â The practice of professional plumbing.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The certificate shall be obtained prior to the start of operating a
business, but in no event later than thirty (30) days after business is
commenced. Each new or existing business shall obtain the certificate annually
thereafter. (Ord. 2003-02, 3-3-2003)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â No person, firm or corporation shall engage in any of the businesses
listed in subsection A of this section with the village unless the business has
registered with the village and has been issued a certificate of registration.
Applications for certificates of registration shall be made in conformance with
the requirements of section
3-1-2 of this chapter relating to applications for certificates of
registration. No certificate of registration shall be issued until the
applicant has paid an inspection fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) and
the building department has inspected the premises of the business for which
the certificate is to be issued and has found that the premises is in
compliance with all applicable codes, ordinances, rules and regulations of the
village. No certificate of registration shall be issued to any business which
is indebted to the village. (Ord. 2006-01, 1-17-2006)
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â It is not the intent of this section to regulate the business,
professions and occupations which are listed in this section in the conduct of
their business or the practice of their profession or occupation, but to
provide the village with complete information concerning all businesses in
order to protect such businesses in cases of emergency, to protect the public
and other business in cases of complaints and to provide reimbursement to the
village for the cost of inspecting the premises where such businesses are
located. (Ord. 2003-02, 3-3-2003)
3-1A-3: APPLICATION, PAYMENT:
All applications and fees shall be processed by the village clerk's office, and
shall be made and payable annually, on or before January 31 of each year. (Ord.
93-2, 1-19-1993)
3-1A-4: RECOVERY OF PROFESSIONAL FEES:
In the event that it is necessary for the village to retain the services of a
professional, including, but not limited to, attorneys, engineers, land or
financial planners, architects, surveyors, traffic or drainage experts, or
other consultants, in connection with any applicant's/petitioner's request for
the village to consider or otherwise take action upon any license, franchise,
or economic incentive; or any zoning change, text amendment, special use,
planned unit development, or variation from this code, or any subdivision or
other improvement or development upon real property, then the applicant/
petitioner and the owner of the property shall be jointly and severally liable
for payment of such professional fees and reimbursement shall be made to the
village within thirty (30) days of receipt of an invoice for same. In addition,
any expenses incurred, including, but not limited to, mailing and copying, as a
result of any such request, application, or development application shall be
reimbursed to the village in the same manner. Further, any professional opinion
or otherwise requesting relief or assistance from the village, whether or not
related to real property, shall be reimbursed in accordance with this section,
if, in the discretion of the village, a professional opinion is desired.
Failure to reimburse the village in accordance with this section may, in the
village's discretion, result in the refusal of any board, committee, or other
governing body to consider or take action upon any further requests from a
petitioner or owner who has failed to pay in full all amounts due under this
section. Further, the village may deny any application for a grading, building
or other permit if such amounts have not been paid in full and the village may
elect to file a lien against any real property associated with such a
petitioner's request. Interest in the amount of one and one-half percent (11/
2%) per month shall accrue on all sums outstanding for thirty (30) days or
more.
When any professional service contemplated by this section is rendered by the
village staff, including any staff engineers, or services performed by the
executive level staff of the village, then, the party making the request shall
reimburse the village for its costs incurred by providing the professional
services of the village staff, at the rate of forty dollars ($40.00) per hour.
The village staff, at the direction of the mayor or his designee, is hereby
authorized to assign requests for professional services to village staff or to
consultants as the mayor deems appropriate. (Ord. 2004-26, 10-18-2004)
CHAPTER 2
MUNICIPAL OCCUPATION TAXES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax
3-2-2: Municipal Service Occupation Tax
3-2-2-1: Nonhome Rule Occupation Taxes
3-2-3: Municipal Utility Tax
3-2-4: Municipal Automobile Renting Use Tax
3-2-5: Municipal Automobile Renting Occupation Tax
3-2-6: Foreign Fire Insurance Companies
3-2-7: Telecommunications Tax
3-2-8: Municipal Electric Utility Tax
3-2-1: MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of selling tangible personal property at retail at the rate of one
percent (1%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such
business in accordance with the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
8-11-1.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Report Required: Every such person engaged in such business in the
village shall file on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report
to the state department of revenue required by section three of "an act in
relation to a tax upon persons engaged in the business of selling tangible
personal property to purchasers for use or consumption", approved June 28,
1933, as amended 1 .
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the state department of revenue the amount of tax imposed on account of the
receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month.
(1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
3-2-2: MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of making sales of service at the rate of one percent (1%) of the cost
price of all tangible personal property transferred by such servicemen either
in the form of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an
incident to a sale of service, in accordance with the provisions of 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-8-5.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Report Required: Every supplier or serviceman required to account for
the municipal service occupation tax for the benefit of this municipality,
shall file, on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the
state department of revenue required by state law 1 .
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed. (1987
Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 115/9.
3-2-2-1: NONHOME RULE OCCUPATION TAXES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling tangible personal property, other than an item of tangible personal
property titled and registered with an agency of this state's government, at
retail in this municipality at the rate of one percent (1%) of the gross
receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while this section
is in effect; and a tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this
municipality in the business of making sales of service, at the rate of one
percent (1%) of the selling price of all tangible personal property transferred
by such servicemen as an incident to a sale of service. Such "nonhome rule
municipal retailers' occupation tax" and the "nonhome rule municipal service
occupation tax" shall not be applicable to the sales of food for human
consumption that is to be consumed off the premises where it is sold (other
than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and food that has been prepared for
immediate consumption) and prescription and nonprescription medicines, drugs,
medical appliances and insulin, urine testing materials, syringes and needles
used by diabetics. (Ord. 2004-27, 12-6-2004, eff. 7-1-2005; amd. Ord. 2007-02,
2-5-2007)
The imposition of these nonhome rule taxes is in accordance with the provisions
of sections 8-11-1.3 and 8-11-1.4, respectively, of the Illinois municipal code
2 .
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the department of
revenue of the state of Illinois. The department of revenue shall have full
power to administer and enforce the provisions of this section.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The municipal clerk is hereby directed to file a certified copy of the
ordinance codified herein and a certification that the ordinance received
referendum approval with the Illinois department of revenue on or before April
1, 2005. (Ord. 2004-27, 12-6-2004, eff. 7-1-2005)
Â 
Notes
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1.3, 5/8-11-1.4.
3-2-3: MUNICIPAL UTILITY TAX 1 :
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Definitions: For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply:
Â Â Â  GROSS RECEIPTS: The consideration received for the transmission of
messages, the consideration received for distributing, supplying, furnishing or
selling gas for use or consumption and not for resale, and the consideration
received for distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling electricity for use
or consumption but not for resale, and the consideration received for
distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling water for use or consumption and
not for resale, and for all services rendered in connection therewith valued in
money, whether received in money or otherwise, including cash, credit, services
and property of every kind and material and for all services rendered
therewith; and shall be determined without any deduction on account of the cost
of transmitting such messages without any deduction for the cost of the
service, product or commodity supplied, the cost of materials used, labor or
service cost, or any other expenses whatsoever.
Â Â Â PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, municipal
corporation or political subdivision of this State, or receiver, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Tax Imposed: A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following
occupations or privileges: (1987 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â (Rep. by Ord. 93-17, 11-15-1993)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits of
the Village, and not for resale, at the rate of five percent (5%) of the gross
receipts therefrom.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling electricity for use or consumption within the corporate
limits of the Village, and not for resale, at the rate of five percent (5%) of
the gross receipts therefrom.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Tax Additional To Other Fees: Such tax imposed by this Section shall be
in addition to the payment of money or value of products or services furnished
to this Municipality by the taxpayer as compensation for the use of its
streets, alleys or other public places, or installation and maintenance
therein, thereon or thereunder of poles, wires, pipes or other equipment used
in the operation of the taxpayer's business.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Tax Returns: On or before December 31, each taxpayer under this Section
shall make a return to the Village Collector for the months of August,
September and October stating:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â His name.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â His principal place of business.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â His gross receipts during those months upon the basis of which the
tax is imposed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Amount of tax.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
On or before the last day of every third month thereafter, each taxpayer shall
make a like return to the Village Collector with the amount of tax herein
imposed; provided that in connection with any return the taxpayer may if he so
elects, report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of business
subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made (exclusive of
any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later payments based
upon any difference between such billings and the taxable gross receipts.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Credit For Overpayment Of Tax: If it shall appear that an amount of tax
has been paid which was not due under the provisions of this Section, whether
as a result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any tax due, or to become due, under this Section from the
taxpayer who made the erroneous payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously
paid more than three (3) years prior to the filing of a claim shall be so
credited.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Limitation On Actions To Recover Tax Due: No action to recover any
amount of tax due under the provisions of this Section shall be commenced more
than three (3) years after the due date of such amount. (1987 Code)
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Exemptions From Tax: No tax is imposed by this Section with respect to
any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such
business may not, under the Constitution and statutes of the United States, be
made subject to taxation by this State or any political subdivision thereof;
nor shall any persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing or selling gas or electricity be subject to taxation under the
provisions of this Section for such transactions as are or may become subject
to taxation under the provisions of the "Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax
Act 1 " authorized by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1. (1987 Code; amd.
Ord. 93-17, 11-15-1993)
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Penalty: Any tax payer who fails to make a return, who makes a
fraudulent return or who wilfully violates any other provision of this Section
is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and in addition, shall be liable in a civil
action for the amount of tax due. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See section 3-2-8 of this chapter for the municipal electric utility tax.
1 1. See Section
  3-2-1 of this Chapter.
3-2-4: MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTING USE TAX:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of using in
this Village an automobile which is rented from a renter outside Illinois and
which is titled or registered with an agency of this State's government in this
Village at the rate of one percent (1%) of the rental price of such automobile
while this Section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-8.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Persons Liable For Payment Of Tax: The tax provided for in this Section
shall be collected from the persons whose Illinois address for titling or
registration purposes is given as being in this Village.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Payment Of Tax: The tax imposed by this Section shall be paid to the
Illinois Department of Revenue. (1987 Code)
3-2-5: MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTING OCCUPATION TAX:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of renting automobiles in this Village at a rate of one percent (1%)
of the gross receipts from such rentals made in the course of such business
while this Section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-7.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Report Required: Every such person engaged in such business in the
Village shall file on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report
to the State Department of Revenue required by sections two and three of "An
Act in Relation to a Tax upon Persons Engaged in the Business of Selling
Tangible Personal Property to Purchasers for Use or Consumption".
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the State Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account
of the renting of automobiles during the preceding month. (1987 Code)
3-2-6: FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Companies With Provisions: It shall be unlawful for any corporation or
association, not incorporated under the laws of the State, to engage in the
Village in effecting fire insurance, or to transact any business of fire
insurance in the Village, while in default by not fully complying with any of
the requirements of this Section, and until such requirements shall have been
fully complied with; but this provision shall not relieve any company,
corporation or association from the payment of any risk that may be undertaken
in violation of this Section.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Payment For Use And Benefit Of Fire Department: Any corporation,
company or association not incorporated under the laws of the State, which is
engaged in the Village in effecting fire insurance shall pay the Village
Collector for the maintenance, use and benefit of the Fire Department, a sum of
money equal in amount to two percent (2%) per annum of the gross receipts
received as premiums upon fire insurance policies by any and all agents of such
corporation, company or association during the year ending on July 1 in each
year for any insurance effected or agreed to be effected on property located in
the Village by or with such corporation, company or association during such
year.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Report Required, Payment Of Tax: Every person acting in the Village as
agent for or on behalf of any corporation, company or association not
incorporated under the laws of the State shall, on or before July 15 of each
and every year, render the Village Clerk a full, true and just account verified
by his oath, of all premiums upon fire insurance policies which during the
year, ending July 1 preceding such report, shall have been received by him, or
by some other person for him, in his behalf of any such corporation, company or
association on property located in the Village. Such agent shall also at the
time of rendering the aforesaid report, pay to the Village Collector the sum of
money for which company, corporation or association represented by him is
chargeable by virtue of the provisions of this Section.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Action By Village: The sum of money for which such company, corporation
or association is so chargeable may be recovered of it or its agents or agent
by an action in the name of and for the use of the Village as for money had and
received. Nothing in this Section shall be held to exempt any person from
indictment and conviction under the provisions of an act entitled "An Act to
enable cities, towns and villages, organized under any general or special law,
to levy and collect a tax or license fee from foreign insurance companies for
the benefit of organized fire departments", in force July 1, 1895 1 .
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Agents Prohibited From Representing Fraudulent Companies: No insurance
agent in the Village shall have any insurance business or dealings with any
company, association or corporation not incorporated under the laws of this
State which shall be in default for not reporting or making payments as
hereinbefore provided, until it shall have complied with all the requirements
of this Section. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-10-1.
3-2-7: TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Tax Imposed: A tax is imposed on the following acts or privileges:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The act or privilege of originating in the Village or receiving in
the Village intrastate telecommunications by a person at the rate of five
percent (5%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at
retail from a retailer by such person. However, such tax is not imposed on such
act or privilege to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the
Constitution of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by
municipalities in this State.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The act or privilege of originating in the Village or receiving in
the Village interstate telecommunications by a person at the rate of five
percent (5%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at
retail from a retailer by such person. To prevent actual multistate taxation of
the act or privilege that is subject to taxation under this subsection, any
taxpayer, upon proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another state on such
event, shall be allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant to this
subsection to the extent of the amount of such tax properly due and paid in
such other state which was not previously allowed as a credit against any other
state or local tax in this State. However, such tax is not imposed on the act
or privilege to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the
Constitution and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation
by municipalities in this State.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Collection Of Tax By Retailers: The tax authorized by this Section
shall be collected from the taxpayer by a retailer maintaining a place of
business in this State and making or effectuating the sale at retail and shall
be remitted by such retailer to the Village. Any tax required to be collected
pursuant to an ordinance authorized by this Section and any such tax collected
pursuant to an ordinance authorized by this Section and any such tax collected
by such retailer shall constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the Village.
Retailers shall collect the tax from the taxpayer by adding the tax to the
gross charge for the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications when sold for use. The tax authorized by this Section shall
constitute a debt of the purchaser to the retailer who provided such taxable
services until paid, and if unpaid, is recoverable at law in the same manner as
the original charge for such taxable services. If the retailer fails to collect
the tax from the taxpayer, then the taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax
directly to the Village.
Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this Section shall, when collected, be
stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross charge for
telecommunications.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Definitions: For the purposes of the taxes authorized by this Section:
Â Â Â  AMOUNT PAID: The amount charged to the taxpayer's service address in the
Village regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
Â Â Â GROSS CHARGE: The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in the Village and for all services rendered in
connection therewith, valued in money whether paid in money or otherwise,
including cash, credits, services and property of every kind or nature, and
shall be determined without any deduction on account of the cost of such
telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor or service costs or
any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended, the amount thereof
shall be included only as and when paid. However, "gross charge" shall not
include:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made
pursuant to: a) the tax imposed by this Section, b) additional charges added to
a purchaser's bill pursuant to section 9-222 of the Public Utilities Act, c)
the tax imposed by the Telecommunications Excise Tax Act, or d) the tax imposed
by section 4251 of the Internal Revenue Code;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of the
Village;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of
data or information or subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, and also includes the usage of computers under a time-sharing
agreement;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
desegregated and separately identified from other charges;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Charges to business enterprises certified under section 9-222.1 of
the Public Utilities Act to the extent of such exemption and during the period
of time specified by the Department of Commerce and Community Affairs;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment
provided in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly
owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed
under this Section has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent
that the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries
or between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering
such service;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Bad debts ("bad debt" means any portion of the debt that is related
to a sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable Federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made); or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Charges paid by inserting coins in coin- operated telecommunication
devices.
Â Â Â INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that either originate
or terminate outside this State.
Â Â Â INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within this State.
Â Â Â PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, or a receiver,
trustee, guardian or other representative appointed by order of any court, the
Federal and State governments, including State universities created by statute,
or any city, town, county, or other political subdivision of this State.
Â Â Â PURCHASE AT RETAIL: The acquisition, consumption or use of
telecommunications through sale at retail.
Â Â Â RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in the business of making
sales at retail as defined in this Section. The Village may, upon application
authorize the collection of the tax hereby imposed by any retailer not
maintaining a place of business within this State, who to the satisfaction of
the Village, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment of
the tax. Such retailer shall be issued, without charge, a permit to collect
such tax. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer to collect
the tax upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in the Village in
the same manner and subject to the same requirements as a retailer maintaining
a place of business within the Village.
Â Â Â RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (Or Any Like Term):
Means and includes any retailer having or maintaining within this State,
directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission
facilities, sales office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or
other representative operating within this State under the authority of the
retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or
agent or other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or
whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this State.
Â Â Â SALE AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of
telecommunications and all services rendered in connection therewith for a
consideration to persons other than Federal and State governments, and State
universities created by statute, and other than between a parent corporation
and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when
the tax has already been paid to a retailer and the gross charge made by one
such corporation is not greater than the gross charge paid to the retailer for
their use or consumption and not for resale.
Â Â Â SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. If this is not a defined location, as in
the case of mobile phones, paging systems, maritime systems, air-to-ground
systems and the like, "service address" shall mean the location of a taxpayer's
primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by telephone number,
authorization code, or location in Illinois where bills are sent.
Â Â Â TAXPAYER: A person who individually or through his agents, employees, or
permittees engages in an act or privilege of originating in the Village or
receiving in the Village telecommunications and who incurs a tax liability
under any ordinance authorized by this Section.
Â Â Â TELECOMMUNICATIONS: In addition to the usual and popular meaning, includes,
but is not limited to: messages or information transmitted through use of
local, toll and wide area telephone service, channel services, telegraph
services, cellular service, computer exchange services, cellular mobile
communications service, specialized mobile radio services, paging service, or
any other form of mobile and portable one- way or two-way communications, or
any other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar
means, between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave,
radio, satellite or similar facilities. The definition of "telecommunications"
shall not include value added services in which computer processing
applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol of the
information for purposes other than transmission. "Telecommunications" shall
not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications service
provider for use as a component part of the service provided by him to the
ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end-to-end
communications. Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for
use of intercompany facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the
subsequent provision used as a component of, or integrated into, end-to-end
telecommunications service shall be nontaxable as sales for resale.
Â Â Â VILLAGE: The Village of Broadview, Illinois, a Municipal corporation.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Resale Numbers: If a person, who originates or receives
telecommunications in the Village claims to be a reseller of such
telecommunications, such person shall apply to the Village for a resale number.
Such applicant shall state facts which will show the Village why such applicant
is not liable for tax under this Section on any of such purchases and shall
furnish such additional information as the Village may reasonably require.
Upon approval of the applications, the Village shall assign a resale number to
the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant. The Village may
cancel any number which is obtained through misrepresentation, or which is used
to send or receive such telecommunications tax-free when such actions in fact
are not for resale, or which no longer applies because of the person's having
discontinued the making of resales.
Except as provided hereinabove in this Section, the act or privilege of sending
or receiving telecommunications in this State shall not be made tax-free on the
grounds of being a sale for resale unless the person has an active resale
number from the Village and furnishes that number to the retailer in connection
with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such person is nontaxable
because of being for resale.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Returns; Filing, Contents, Payment Of Tax: On or before October 31 of
each year, each retailer shall make a return to the Village Collector for the
months of July, August, and September, stating:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Its name;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Its principal place of business;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The gross charges during those months upon the basis of which the
tax is imposed;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Amount of tax;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Such other reasonable and related information as the Village may
require.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Quarterly Returns: On or before the last day of every third month
thereafter, each retailer shall make a like return to the Village Collector for
a corresponding three (3) month period.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Payments; Adjustments: The retailer making a return herein provided for
shall, at the time of making such return, pay to the Village Collector, the
amount of tax herein imposed; provided that in connection with any return the
retailer may, if he so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his total
billings of business subject to the tax during the period for which the return
is made (exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of
later payments based upon any differences between such billings and the taxable
gross charges.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Erroneous Payment: If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been
paid which was not due under the provisions of this Section, whether as the
result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any tax due, or to become due, under this Section from the
taxpayer who made the erroneous payment; provided that no amounts erroneously
paid more than three (3) years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be
so credited.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Books And Records Of Retailer: Every retailer under this Section shall
keep books, records and other documents which are adequate to reflect that the
tax imposed by this Section to be kept shall, at all times during business
hours of the day, be subject to inspections by the Village or its duly
authorized agents and employees. Books and records reflecting gross charges
during any period with respect to which the tax is imposed shall be preserved
until the expiration of three (3) years following the period the tax was
incurred, unless the Village, in writing, authorizes their destruction or
disposal at an earlier date.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Failure To Make Return Or Fraudulent Return: Any retailer who fails to
make a return, or who makes a fraudulent return, or who wilfully violates any
other provision of this Section is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and in addition shall be liable in a civil
action for the amount of tax due. (Ord. 93-17, 11-15-1993)
3-2-8: MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC UTILITY TAX:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Definitions: As used in this Section, unless the context otherwise
requires:
Â Â Â  PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability
company, municipal corporation, the State or any of its political subdivisions,
any State university created by statute, or a receiver, trustee, conservator or
other representative appointed by order of any court.
Â Â Â PERSON MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE: Any person having or
maintaining within this State, directly or by a subsidiary or other affiliate,
an office, generation facility, distribution facility, transmission facility,
sales office or other place of business, or any employee, agent, or other
representative operating within this State under the authority of the person or
its subsidiary or other affiliate, irrespective of whether such place of
business or agent or other representative is located in this State permanently
or temporarily, or whether such person, subsidiary or other affiliate is
licensed or qualified to do business in this State.
Â Â Â PURCHASE AT RETAIL: Any acquisition of electricity by a purchaser for
purposes of use or consumption, and not for resale, but shall not include the
use of electricity by a public utility, as defined in section
8-11-2 of the Illinois Municipal Code 1 , directly in the generation,
production, transmission, delivery or sale of electricity.
Â Â Â PURCHASER: Any person who uses or consumes, within the corporate limits of
the Village, electricity acquired in a purchase at retail.
Â Â Â TAX COLLECTOR: The person delivering electricity to the purchaser.
Â Â Â VILLAGE: The Village of Broadview.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Tax Imposed:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Pursuant to section
8-11-2 of the Illinois Municipal Code 1  and any and all other applicable
authority, a tax is imposed upon the privilege of using or consuming
electricity acquired in a purchase at retail and used or consumed within the
corporate limits of the Village at the following rates, calculated on a monthly
basis for each purchaser:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â For the first 2,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.606 cents per kilowatt-hour;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â For the next 48,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.398 cents per kilowatt-hour;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â For the next 50,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.358 cents per kilowatt-hour;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â For the next 400,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.348 cents per kilowatt-hour;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â For the next 500,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.338 cents per kilowatt-hour;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; 0.318 cents per kilowatt-hour;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; 0.313 cents per kilowatt-hour;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â For the next 5,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; 0.308 cents per kilowatt-hour;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â i.Â Â Â For the next 10,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a
month; 0.303 cents per kilowatt-hour;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â j.Â Â Â For all electricity used or consumed in excess of 20,000,000
kilowatt-hours in a month; 0.298 cents per kilowatt-hour.
The tax rates as previously set forth shall be used at least through December
31, 2008, are proportional to the rates enumerated in 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/8-11-2 (as modified by Public Act 90-561), and do not exceed the
revenue that could have been collected during 1997.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2, the rates set
forth in subsection B1 of this Section shall be effective: a) with the first
bill being issued on or after September 1, 1998, for residential customers, and
b) on the earlier of: 1) the last bill issued prior to December 31, 2000, or 2)
the date of the first bill issued pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
16-104, for nonresidential customers.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The tax is in addition to all taxes, fees and other revenue measures
imposed by the Village, the State or any other political subdivision of the
State.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section, the tax shall
not be imposed if and to the extent that imposition or collection of the tax
would violate the Constitution or statutes of the United States or the
constitution of the State.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Collection Of Tax:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The tax authorized by this Section shall be collected from the
purchaser by the person maintaining a place of business in this State who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser. This tax shall constitute a debt of
the purchaser to the person who delivers the electricity to the purchaser and
if unpaid, is recoverable in the same manner as the original charge for
delivering the electricity. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this
Section and any such tax collected by a person delivering electricity shall
constitute a debt owed to the Municipality by such person delivering the
electricity. Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the
purchaser by adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the
electricity.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any tax required to be collected by this Section, and any tax in
fact collected, shall constitute a debt owed to the Village by the person
delivering the electricity, provided, that the person delivering electricity
shall be allowed credit for such tax related to deliveries of electricity the
charges for which are written off as uncollectible, and provided further, that
if such charges are thereafter collected, the delivering supplier shall be
obligated to remit such tax at such later time.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Persons delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to
such gross charge an amount equal to three percent (3%) of the tax to reimburse
the person delivering electricity for the expense incurred in keeping records,
billing customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and
supplying data to the Municipality upon request.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â If the person delivering electricity fails, upon reasonable and good
faith efforts, to collect the tax from the purchaser, then the purchaser shall
be required to pay the tax directly to the Municipality in the manner
prescribed by the Municipality.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Tax Remittance And Returns:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Every tax collector shall, on a monthly basis, file a return in a
form prescribed by the Village that shall include at least the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The purchaser;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The purchaser's location;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The kilowatt-hour usage during the preceding month;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â The amount of tax due the Village.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The return shall be accompanied by a remittance for the amount of
tax due the Village, and shall be due on or before the last day of the month
following the month during which the tax is collected.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Credit For Overpayment: If it shall appear that an amount of tax has
been paid which was not due under the provisions of this Section, whether as
the result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any tax due, or to become due, under this Section from the
person delivering electricity who made the erroneous payment; provided that no
amounts erroneously paid more than one year prior to the filing of a claim
therefor shall be so credited.
No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of this Section
shall be commenced more than one year after the due date of such amount.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Penalty: Any tax collector who fails to make a return, or who makes a
fraudulent return, or who wilfully violates any other provision of this Section
is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined no less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00)
and in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the amount of tax due
plus reasonable attorney fees for the collection thereof.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Additional Remedies: Nothing in this Section shall be construed as
limiting any additional or further remedies that the Village may have for
enforcement of this Section.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Severability: If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or
portion of this Ordinance is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by
any court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate,
distinct, and independent provision and such holding shall not affect the
validity of the remaining provisions hereof. (Ord. 98-16, 7-20-1998)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
CHAPTER 3
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-1-1: Liquor Control Act Adopted
3-3-1-2: Administration Of Chapter
3-3-2: Licensing Provisions
3-3-2-1: License Required
3-3-2-2: Application For License
3-3-2-3: Restrictions On License
3-3-2-4: Schedule Of Annual License Fees
3-3-2-5: Term Of License
3-3-2-6: Renewal Of License
3-3-2-7: Transfer Of License
3-3-2-8: Revocation Of License
3-3-3: Classification Of Licenses; Special Provisions For Certain Licenses;
Number of Licenses; Schedule Of Annual License Fees
3-3-4: [Reserved]
3-3-5: [Reserved]
3-3-6: List Of Licenses Kept
3-3-7: Disposition Of License Fees
3-3-8: Building And Location Restrictions
3-3-9: Conditions Of License
3-3-10: Sanitary Conditions
3-3-11: Minors
3-3-12: Sale To Intoxicated Persons, Habitual Drunkards
3-3-13: Violations, Penalty
3-3-14: Beverage Alcohol Sellers And Servers Training (BASSET) Program
3-3-15: Suspension And Revocation Of License
3-3-16: Licensee Or Representative's Presence On Premises
3-3-17: Responsibility For Agents And Employees
3-3-18: Decoy/Sting Operations
3-3-19: Consumption Of Alcoholic Liquor At Unlicensed Establishments Prohibited
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid or
solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and capable
of being consumed as a beverage by a human being. The provisions of this
chapter shall not apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured alcohol
produced in accordance with acts of congress and regulations promulgated
thereunder nor to any liquid or solid containing one-half of one percent
(0.5%), or less, of alcohol by volume.
CLUB: A corporation organized under the laws of this state, not for pecuniary
profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the sale or
consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its members
through the payment of annual dues and owning, hiring or leasing a building or
space in a building, of such extent and character as may be suitable and
adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of
employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for its members and
their guests; provided, that such club files with the president at the time of
its application for a license under this chapter, two (2) copies of a list of
names and residences of its members, and similarly files within ten (10) days
of the election of any additional member, his name and address; and, provided
further, that its affairs and management are conducted by a board of directors,
executive committee or similar body chosen by the members at their annual
meeting, and that no member or any officer, agent or employee of the club is
paid, or directly or indirectly receives, in the form of salary or other
compensation, any profits from the distribution or sale of alcoholic liquor to
the club or the members of the club or its guests introduced by members, beyond
the amount of such salary as may be fixed and voted at any annual meeting by
the members or by its board of directors or other governing body out of the
general revenue of the club.
HOTEL: Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised and
held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and consumed
and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers and
guests whether transient, permanent or residential, in which twenty five (25)
or more rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests and
having one or more public dining rooms where meals are served to such guests,
such sleeping accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same
building in connection therewith and such building or structure being provided
with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and capacity.
RESTAURANT: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to
the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals are actually and
regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space being provided
with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and capacity and
having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees to prepare,
cook and serve suitable food for its guests.
RETAIL SALE: The sale for use or consumption and not for resale.
SALE: Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner, or by any means
whatsoever, including the transfer of alcoholic liquors by and through the
transfer or negotiation of warehouse receipts or certificates, and includes and
means all sales made by any person, whether principal proprietor, agent,
servant or employee.
TO SELL: Includes to keep or expose for sale and to keep with intent to sell.
(1987 Code)
3-3-1-1: LIQUOR CONTROL ACT ADOPTED:
Each and every part of the liquor control act of 1934, 235 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/1-1 et seq., and regulations promulgated hereunder, as amended,
which relate in any manner to the retail sale of alcoholic liquors, is adopted
by this reference and made a part of this chapter as to the same extent and
with the same legal effect as if fully set forth in this section, except as
otherwise specifically provided, changed or amended in this chapter. Any
violation of such applicable and adopted provision of such act or regulation
shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and subject to the penalties
provided in this chapter. (Ord. 09-58, 11-16-2009)
3-3-1-2: ADMINISTRATION OF CHAPTER:
The local liquor control commissioner and the deputy local liquor control
commissioner shall have the power to adopt such rules and regulations
consistent with this chapter that the local liquor control commissioner and/or
the deputy local liquor control commissioner deem(s) necessary to carry on his,
her or their functions and duties and for the efficient administration of this
chapter. (Ord. 09-58, 11-16-2009)
3-3-2: LICENSING PROVISIONS:
3-3-2-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail in the village any
alcoholic liquor without having a retail liquor dealer's license, or to sell
liquor in violation of the terms of such license. (1987 Code)
3-3-2-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for a retailer's license shall be made to the village president 1
in writing, signed by the applicant, if an individual or by a duly authorized
agent thereof if a club or corporation, verified by oath or affidavit, and
shall contain the following information and statements:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a copartnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof; and in the case of a corporation for profit or a club, the
date of incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the names and
addresses of the officers and directors, and if a majority in interest of the
stock of such corporation is owned by one person or his nominees, the name and
address of such person.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The citizenship of the applicant, his place of birth and if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his naturalization.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The character of business of the applicant, and in case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The length of time that the applicant has been in business of that
character, or in the case of a corporation, the date on which its charter was
issued.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time
application is made.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â The location and description of the premises or place of business which
is to be operated under such license.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â A statement whether the applicant has made similar application for a
similar other license on premises other than described in this application, and
the disposition of such application.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony and is
not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this code or the laws of this state, or the ordinances of the
village.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, or by
the federal government has been revoked, and the reasons thereof.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of the
state or of the United States, or this code in the conduct of his place of
business. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 1-5-3C of this code.
3-3-2-3: RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSE:
No such license shall be issued to:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â A person who is not a resident of the village.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â A person who has been convicted of a felony under the laws of the
state.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â A person who has been convicted of being the keeper of or is keeping a
house of ill fame.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked for
cause.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â A copartnership, unless all of the members of such copartnership shall
be qualified to obtain a license.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the stock of
such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any
reason other than citizenship and residence within the political subdivision.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee.
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the effective date hereof, or shall have forfeited his bond to
appear in court to answer charges for any such violation.
Â Â Â M.Â Â Â A person who does not own the premises for which a license is sought,
or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the license is
to be issued.
Â Â Â N.Â Â Â Any law enforcing public official, president of the village board of
trustees, any member of the village board of trustees, or any president or
member of a county board; and no such official shall be interested in any way,
either directly or indirectly, in the manufacture, sale or distribution of
alcoholic liquor.
Â Â Â O.Â Â Â Any person, association or corporation not eligible for a State retail
liquor dealer's license. (1987 Code)
3-3-2-4: SCHEDULE OF ANNUAL LICENSE FEES:
The following annual license fees shall be charged for liquor licenses:
Â 
Class A license                   $3,400.00
Class B license                   3,400.00
Combination Class A and B license 3,400.00
Class C license                   1,500.00
Combination Class A and C license 2,500.00
Â 
The license fees shall be paid by January 1. Any new application for a liquor
license made after January 1 shall be subject to a prorated portion of the
applicable fee. (Ord. 09-58, 11-16-2009)
3-3-2-5: TERM OF LICENSE:
Each license required by section
3-3-2-1 of this chapter shall terminate on December 31 next following its
issuance. (1987 Code; amd. Ord. 2005-29, 12-5-2005)
3-3-2-6: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
Any licensee may renew his license at the expiration thereof; provided, that he
is then qualified to receive a license and the premises for which such renewal
license is sought is suitable for such purpose; provided further, that the
renewal privilege herein provided for shall not be construed as a vested right
which shall in any case prevent the President from decreasing the number of
licenses to be issued within his jurisdiction, in accordance with any law or
ordinance ordering such decrease. (1987 Code)
3-3-2-7: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for not to exceed one year
after issuance unless sooner revoked, and shall not constitute property, nor
shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or execution, nor shall it be
alienable or transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being
encumbered or hypothecated. Such license shall not descend by the laws of
testate or intestate devolution but it shall cease upon the death of the
licensee; provided, that executors or administrators of the estate of any
deceased licensee, and the trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when
such estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of
the sale or manufacture of alcoholic liquor under the order of the appropriate
court, and may exercise the privileges of the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt
licensee after the death of such decedent, or such insolvency or bankruptcy
until the expiration of such license, but not longer than six (6) months after
the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee. A refund shall be made of
that portion of the license fees paid for any period in which the licensee
shall be prevented from operating under such license in accordance with the
provisions of this section. (1987 Code)
3-3-2-8: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The President may revoke any retail liquor dealer's license for any violation
of any provision of this chapter, or for any violation of any State law
pertaining to the sale of alcoholic liquor. Any such revocation shall be in
compliance with the procedures set out in section
3-1-11 of this title. (1987 Code)
3-3-3: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES; SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR CERTAIN LICENSES;
NUMBER OF LICENSES; SCHEDULE OF ANNUAL LICENSE FEES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Retail Liquor Licenses:
Retail liquor licenses shall be divided into the following classes and include
the following special provisions with the number of licenses in each class
having been made available by the Village and with the schedule of fees as
specified herein:
Class A Liquor License: Which shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor but not for consumption on the premises where sold. There shall be
issued in the Village, to be effective at any time, no more than six (6) Class
A Liquor Licenses. The annual fee for a Class A Liquor License shall be three
thousand four hundred dollars ($3,400.00). The liquor license fees shall be
paid by January 1. Any new application for a liquor license made after January
1 shall be subject to a prorated portion of the applicable fee.
Class B Liquor License: Which shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises specified and, which shall authorize the
retail sale of alcoholic liquor intended for consumption off the premises where
sold. There shall be issued in the Village, to be effective at any time, no
more than one (1) Class B Liquor License. Coin operated amusement devices,
licensed under chapter 3-4C of this Village Code, and video poker machines, as
defined under section
15-13-1-1 of this Village Code, shall be allowed under a Class B Liquor License
provided all applicable fees are paid. Persons under the age of twenty one (21)
years shall not be allowed in any area designated for the use of video poker
machines, as defined under section
15-13-1-1 of this Village Code. Musical entertainment (i.e., live band, disc
jockey, karaoke, etc.) shall not be allowed after twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight. The annual fee for a Class B Liquor License shall be three thousand
four hundred dollars ($3,400.00). The liquor license fees shall be paid by
January 1. Any new application for a liquor license made after January 1 shall
be subject to a prorated portion of the applicable fee.
Class C Liquor License: Which shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises in conjunction with the sale of food for
consumption on the premises. Eighty percent (80%) of the square foot area of
any premises with a Class C Liquor License must be devoted to, and utilized
for, the preparation and serving of food along with the seating of patrons.
Coin operated amusement devices, licensed under chapter 3-4C of this Village
Code, and video poker machines, as defined under section
15-13-1-1 of this Village Code, shall be allowed under a Class C license
provided all applicable fees are paid. Persons under the age of twenty one (21)
years shall not be allowed in any area designated for the use of video poker
machines, as defined under section
15-13-1-1 of this Village Code. Musical entertainment (i.e., live band, disc
jockey, karaoke, etc.) shall not be allowed under a Class C License. There
shall be issued in the Village, to be effective at any time, no more than four
(4) Class C Liquor License. The annual fee for a Class C Liquor License shall
be one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00). The liquor license fees shall
be paid by January 1. Any new application for a liquor license made after
January 1 shall be subject to a prorated portion of the applicable fee.
Class D Liquor License: Which shall authorize the retail sale of beer and wine
for consumption on the premises in conjunction with the sale of food for
consumption on the premises. Each Class D Liquor License may be issued and held
only for a business that generates more than at least sixty percent (60%) of
its gross annual sales from the sale of food within the licensed premises. The
licensee must provide, at the time of license application, except in cases
where a licensee is a new restaurant, license renewal, and when otherwise
requested by the Village, proof of compliance with that sixty percent (60%)
sales requirement, and the licensee must maintain compliance with that sales
requirement at all times. Musical entertainment (i.e., live band, disc jockey,
karaoke, etc.) shall not be allowed under a Class D Liquor License. There shall
be issued in the Village, to be effective at any time, no more than two (2)
Class D Liquor Licenses. Video poker machines, as defined under section
15-13-1-1 of this Village Code, shall be allowed under a Class D Liquor License
provided all applicable fees are paid. Persons under the age of twenty one (21)
years shall not be allowed in any area designated for the use of video poker
machines, as defined under section
15-13-1-1 of this Village Code. The annual fee for a Class D Liquor License
shall be one thousand two hundred dollars ($1,200.00). The liquor license fees
shall be paid by January 1. Any new application for a liquor license made after
January 1 shall be subject to a prorated portion of the applicable fee.
Class E Liquor License: Which shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises in conjunction with the sale of food for
consumption on the premises, where such business also includes one or more
banquet halls and/or includes a combination restaurant and bar. Eighty percent
(80%) of the square foot area of any premises with a Class E Liquor License
must be devoted to, and utilized for, the preparation and serving of food along
with the seating of patrons. Musical entertainment (i.e., live band, disc
jockey, karaoke, etc.) shall not be allowed after twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight. There shall be issued in the Village, to be effective at any time, no
more than two (2) Class E Liquor License. Coin operated amusement devices,
licensed under Section 3-4C of this Village Code, and video poker machines, as
defined under Section 3-4E of this Village Code, shall be allowed under a Class
E license provided all applicable fees are paid. Persons under the age of
twenty-one years (21) shall not be allowed in any area designated for the use
of video poker machines, as defined under Section 3-4E of this Village Code.
The annual fee for a Class E Liquor License shall be two thousand five hundred
dollars and 00/100 ($2,500.00). The liquor license fees shall be paid by
January 1. Any new application for a liquor license made after January 1 shall
be subject to a prorated portion of the applicable fee.
Class F Liquor License: Which shall authorize the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises in conjunction with the sale of food for
consumption on the premises in conjunction with and incidental to video gaming
as authorized by and licensed under the Illinois Video Gaming Act and as
authorized by the Village under Section 3-4E of this Village Code. The sale of
any food and beverages, including alcohol, shall not account for more than
forty-nine percent (49%) of the licensed establishment's annual gross sales
revenue from all sources. Persons under the age of twenty-one (21) years shall
not be allowed on the premises. There shall be issued in the village, to be
effective at any time, no more than one (1) Class F Liquor Licenses. Musical
entertainment (i.e., live band, disc jockey, karaoke, etc.) shall not be
allowed under a Class F Liquor License. The annual fee for a Class F Liquor
License shall be five thousand dollars and 00/100 ($5,000.00). The liquor
license fees shall be paid by January 1. Any new application for a liquor
license made after January 1 shall be subject to a prorated portion of the
applicable fee.
Class G Liquor License: Which shall authorize the retail sale of beer and wine
for consumption on the premises in conjunction with the sale of food for
consumption on the premises in conjunction with and incidental to video gaming
as authorized by and licensed under the Illinois Video Gaming Act and as
authorized by the Village under section
15-13-1-1 of this Village Code. The sale of any food and beverages, including
beer and wine, shall not account for more than forty nine percent (49%) of the
licensed establishment's annual gross sale revenue from all sources. Persons
under the age of twenty one (21) years shall not be allowed on the premises.
There shall be issued in the Village, to be effective at any time, no more than
zero (0) Class G Liquor Licenses. Musical entertainment (i.e., live band, disc
jockey, karaoke, etc.) shall not be allowed under a Class G License. The annual
fee for a Class G Liquor License shall be four thousand dollars ($4,000.00).
The liquor license fees shall be paid by January 1. Any new application for a
liquor license made after January 1 shall be subject to a prorated portion of
the applicable fee.
Class H Liquor License: Which shall authorize the dispensing of alcoholic
liquor, with or without charges therefor, for consumption on the premises where
dispensed at any specific event sponsored by any person, partnership, club or
corporation. A Class H license shall be good only for one calendar day. The fee
for such a license shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) per event and must be
paid within one (1) week of approval of application. Applications for Class H
(temporary) licenses shall be made at least thirty (30) calendar days prior to
the specified event for which a license is sought and shall be made as in the
case of any other class of license. Proof satisfactory to the local liquor
control commissioner or the deputy local liquor control commissioner that the
applicant has dram shop liability insurance in the maximum limits, and general
liability insurance in an amount satisfactory to the local liquor control
commissioner or the deputy local liquor control commissioner shall be submitted
at the time of the application. Temporary licenses granted under this section
shall be governed by and subject to all provisions of this chapter.
Class I (BYO) Liquor License: Which shall authorize the consumption, but not
the sale of beer and wine brought onto the licensed premises of a business or a
restaurant, as the term is defined in Section 1-3.23 of the Liquor Control Act
of 1934 (235 ILCS 5/1-3.23), operating as a public accommodation as defined in
Section 11-42-10.1 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/11-42-10.1) by a
patron or patrons for their personal consumption while on the premises. There
shall be issued in the village, to be effective at any time, no more than one
(1) Class I Liquor License. The annual fee for a Class I Liquor License shall
be five hundred dollars and 00/100 ($500.00). Alcoholic liquors other than beer
and wine shall not be permitted under the Class I BYO license. Video gaming
shall not be permitted under the Class I Liquor License.
Issuance of a Class I Liquor License shall be subject to the following
restrictions and conditions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Consumption shall be limited to patrons over the age of twenty-one
(21); and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Patrons bringing beer or wine onto the premises are limited to seven
hundred and fifty (750) milliliters of wine or thirty-six (36) ounces of beer
per day. The wine or beer must be sealed and in its original package as defined
in Section 1-3.06 of the Liquor Control Act of 1934 (235 ILCS 5/1-3.06) and may
only be opened by an employee of the licensed premises; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Patrons may not leave the premises with an open container of beer or
wine with the exception of partially consumed bottles of wine that have been
sealed in compliance with Section 6-33 of the Liquor Control Act of 1934 (235
ILCS 5/6-33); and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Unconsumed beer or wine brought onto the premises by a patron may
not be stored on the premises after the permitted consumption hours; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The licensed premises may charge a service or corkage fee for
serving the beer or wine; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â The licensee shall, at the time it applies for a Class I license,
procure and thereafter maintain throughout the period of its license, insurance
for its premises for liability under and for not less than the maximum
liability limits set forth in Section 6-21 of the Liquor Control Act of 1934
(235 ILCS 5/6-21) issued by insurance companies authorized to transact business
under the laws of the State of Illinois. The insurance company providing
coverage shall be rated in the Best's Key Rating Guide with a rating not lower
than B+, provided the financial size category is VII or larger. Insurance
companies rated A- or better shall have a financial size category of not less
than VI. The application for a Class I license shall be accompanied by a
certificate of insurance evidencing this required insurance coverage. The
certificate of insurance is to be signed by a person authorized by that insurer
to bind coverage on its behalf.
Class J Liquor License: Which shall authorize the sale and dispensing of
alcoholic liquor, for consumption on the premises, in conjunction with the
service of food by establishments operating solely as a duly licensed stand-
alone banquet hall or banquet facility where such establishment is supplying
the alcoholic liquor to be sold or served in such establishment. A banquet hall
or banquet facility is defined as a room or building for the purpose of hosting
a party, banquet, wedding or other reception, or other social event. Dancing,
entertainment and live music furnished for the entertainment of the attendees
at private functions at the banquet hall shall be allowed under this license.
There shall be issued in the village, to be effective at any time, no more than
one (1) Class J Liquor License. The annual fee for such license shall be one
thousand six hundred and fifty dollars ($1,650.00).
Class K Liquor License: Which shall authorize the retail sale of all alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises and the retail sale of all alcoholic
liquor for consumption off the premises. The annual fee for such license shall
be six thousand dollars and 00/100 ($6,000.00). There shall be no more than one
(1) Class K licenses issued within the corporate limits of the Village.
Issuance of a Class K license shall be subject to the following conditions and
restrictions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The products sold for consumption off the premises shall neither be
opened nor consumed on the premises;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The total square footage of the premises dedicated for the retail
sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption off the premises shall not exceed one-
third (1/3) of the total square footage of the premises;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Permitted goods and merchandise, other than alcoholic liquor, shall
also be offered for retail sale on the premises; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The premises must be operated as a filling station, a gasoline
station, a service station or any other location wherein gasoline, diesel fuel,
gasohol or any other motor fuel is sold or offered for sale. (Ord. 2015-42, 5-
18-2015; amd. Ord. 2019-17, 6-17-2019; Ord. CO-2021-4, 4-19-2021; Ord. CO-2022-
15, 7-18-2022; Ord. CO-2023-8, 3-13-2023)
3-3-4: [RESERVED]:
3-3-5: [RESERVED]:
3-3-6: LIST OF LICENSES KEPT:
The President shall keep or cause to be kept a complete record of all licenses
issued by him and shall furnish the Clerk, Treasurer and Chief of Police each
with a copy thereof. Upon the issuance of any new license or the revocation of
any old license, the President shall give written notice of such action to each
of these officers within forty eight (48) hours of such action. (1987 Code)
3-3-7: DISPOSITION OF LICENSE FEES:
One-half (1/2) of the fees charged by section
3-3-2-4 of this chapter shall be paid to the President at the time application
is made and shall be turned over to the Collector. In the event the license
applied for is denied, the fee shall be returned to the applicant. If the
license is granted, then the fee shall be deposited in the General Corporate
Fund or in such other fund as shall have been designated by the Board of
Trustees by proper action. (1987 Code)
3-3-8: BUILDING AND LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Location Restrictions: No license shall be issued for the sale at
retail of any alcoholic liquor within one hundred feet (100') of any church,
school, hospital, home for aged or indigent persons or for veterans, their
wives or children or any military or naval station; provided, that this
prohibition shall not apply to hotels offering restaurant service, regularly
organized clubs, or to restaurants, food shops or other places where sale of
alcoholic liquors is not the principal business carried on, if such place of
business so exempted shall have been established for such purposes prior to the
taking effect of this subsection. No person shall hereafter engage in business
as a retailer of any alcoholic liquor within fifty feet (50') of any business
previously licensed by the Village for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â View From Street: In premises upon which the sale of alcoholic liquor
for consumption upon the premises is licensed other than as a restaurant,
hotel, club or any bowling establishment other than one situated on the first
or ground floor, no screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or thing shall
be permitted in the windows or upon the doors of such licensed premises nor
inside such premises which shall prevent a clear view into the interior of such
licensed premises from the street, road or sidewalk at all times, and no booth,
screen, partition or other obstruction nor any arrangement of lights or
lighting shall be permitted in or about the interior of such premises which
shall prevent a full view of the entire interior of such premises from the
street, road or sidewalk, and the premises must be so located that there shall
be a full view of the entire interior of such premises from the street, road or
sidewalk. All rooms where liquor is sold for consumption upon the premises
shall be continuously lighted during business hours by natural light or
artificial white light so that all parts of the interior of the premises shall
be clearly visible. In case the view into any such licensed premises required
by the foregoing provisions shall be wilfully obstructed by the licensee or by
him wilfully suffered to be obscured or in any manner obstructed, then such
license shall be subject to revocation in the manner provided in section
3-3-2-8 of this chapter. In order to enforce the provisions of this subsection
the President shall have the right to require the filing with him of plans,
drawings and photographs showing the clearance of the view as above required.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Change Of Location: A retail liquor dealer's license shall permit the
sale of alcoholic liquor only on the premises described in the application and
license. Such location may be changed only upon the written permit to make such
change issued by the president. No change of location shall be permitted unless
the proposed new location is a proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor under the laws of the state and the ordinances of the village. (1987
Code)
3-3-9: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Operating Hours: It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at
retail in the village any alcoholic liquor except during the hours as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â All licensed establishments, Monday through Thursday, from six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. to twelve forty five o'clock (12:45) A.M. of the following
day. Friday and Saturday, from six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to one forty five
o'clock (1:45) A.M. of the following day. Sunday, from twelve o'clock (12:00)
noon to twelve forty five o'clock (12:45) A.M. of the following day, provided
however, that sale of alcoholic liquor by and from class B liquor
establishments in original packages and not for consumption on the premises
where sold, shall be permitted from ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. to one o'clock (1:
00) A.M. This section shall not apply to Class I liquor licenses, which license
shall authorize the dispensing of alcoholic liquor between the hours of eight
oâ€™clock (8:00) A.M. and twelve oâ€™clock (12:00) midnight, Monday through
Saturday, and the hours of eleven oâ€™clock (11:00) A.M. to eleven oâ€™clock (11:
00) P.M. on Sunday.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â All patrons and invitees shall leave the premises where alcoholic
beverages are served no later than fifteen (15) minutes after the hours
specified in this section.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Consumption On Premises: It shall be unlawful for anyone not having a
class B, C, D, E, F, G, or K Liquor License to sell or offer for sale or
dispense any alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises where sold or to
permit same to be consumed on the premises where sold. Anyone having a class B
or K license may not permit any alcoholic liquor to be consumed on the premises
that is packaged for consumption not on the premises and sold pursuant to their
class B or K licensing.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Peddling: It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the
village. (Ord. 09-58, 11-16-2009; amd. Ord. 2019-17, 6-17-2019; Ord. CO-2021-4,
4-19-2021; Ord. CO-2022-15, 7-18-2022)
3-3-10: SANITARY CONDITIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Premises: All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, or
for the storage of such liquor for such sale, shall be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition, and shall be kept in full compliance with the provisions of
this code regulating the condition of premises used for the storage or sale of
food for human consumption 1 .
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Employees: It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used for the
retail sale of alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with, or who is a
carrier of, any contagious, infectious or venereal disease, and it shall be
unlawful for any person who is afflicted with or a carrier of any such disease
to work in or about any premises or to engage in any way in the handling,
preparation or distribution of such liquor. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See title 4, chapter 6 of this code.
3-3-11: MINORS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Presence Of Underage Persons In Establishments: A licensee or any
officer, associate, member, representative, agent, or employee of a licensee
shall be prohibited from permitting a person under the age of twenty one (21)
years to enter and remain in that portion of a licensed premises that sells,
gives, or delivers alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises. No
prohibition under this subsection, however, shall apply to any licensed
premises, such as, without limitation, a restaurant or food shop, where
selling, giving, or delivering alcoholic liquor is not the principal business
of the licensee at those premises. In addition to any other penalty imposed for
violations of this chapter, a minimum fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) and
a maximum fine of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) shall be imposed for
violations of this subsection.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Underage Persons Frequenting Establishments Or Purchasing Or Receiving
Liquor: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years to knowingly frequent any dramshop where alcoholic beverages are sold or
to purchase any alcoholic beverages, whether for consumption on the premises or
in package form for consumption off the premises. Any person under the age of
twenty one (21) years who knowingly frequents any dramshop wherein intoxicating
beverages are sold shall be subject to a minimum fine of one hundred dollars
($100.00) and a maximum fine of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) shall be
imposed for violations of this subsection.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Notification Of Guardians: When any person under the age of twenty one
(21) years is charged as a delinquent child, the department of police shall
notify the parent, guardian or legal representative when to appear before the
juvenile court of the county, wherein the minor's case will be heard.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Unlawful To Serve Underage Persons: It shall be unlawful for any
licensee, manager for the licensee or any other person in charge of the
premises or employed by the licensee or manager to sell, give away, deliver or
offer any alcoholic beverage to a person under the age of twenty one (21)
years. In addition to any other penalty imposed for violations of this chapter,
a minimum fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) and a maximum fine of seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) shall be imposed for violations of this
subsection. For the purposes of preventing the violation of this subsection,
all licensees, agents or employees must refuse to sell or serve alcoholic
beverages to any person who is unable to produce adequate written evidence of
identity and of the fact that such person is over the age of twenty one (21)
years. For purposes of this subsection, a nonoperator's identification card
issued by this state or any other identification wherein proof of age is not
required for the issuance of the identification card is not competent evidence
of age and may not be relied upon by any licensee, his employee or agent in any
transaction. (Ord. 09-58, 11-16-2009)
3-3-12: SALE TO INTOXICATED PERSONS, HABITUAL DRUNKARDS:
No licensee nor any officer, associate, member, representative, agent or
employee of such licensee shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any
intoxicated person or to any person known by him to be a habitual drunkard,
spendthrift, insane, mentally ill, mentally deficient or in need of medical
treatment. (1987 Code)
3-3-13: VIOLATIONS, PENALTY:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any person who manufactures, imports for distribution or use, or
distributes or sells alcoholic liquor at any place within the village without
having first obtained a valid license under the provisions of this chapter, or
shall make any false statement or otherwise violate any of the provisions of
this chapter in obtaining any license hereunder, or who having obtained a
license hereunder shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter with
respect to the manufacture, possession, distribution or sale of alcoholic
liquor, or with respect to the maintenance of the licensed premises, or shall
violate any other provision of this chapter, shall levy a fine on the licensee
for violations. The fine imposed shall not exceed one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for a first violation within a twelve (12) month period, one
thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for a second violation within a
twelve (12) month period, and two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for
a third or subsequent violation within a twelve (12) month period. Each day a
violation continues shall constitute a separate violation, but not more than
fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) in fines may be imposed against any
licensee during the period of the license.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â In the event that a liquor license holder fails to submit a license
renewal application to the village before or on the expiration date of the
current license, the licensee will be assessed a late filing fee of twenty five
dollars ($25.00). Late applications and instruments of payment will be returned
to the licensee. Late filing fees will be in addition to any fines or penalties
ordered for operating without a valid license.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â If, after a hearing on any citation charging a violation of any
provision of this chapter, the local liquor control commissioner or the deputy
local liquor control commissioner finds adversely to the licensee, in addition
to the suspension or revocation of the license, any fine imposed, and any other
costs imposed, the local liquor control commissioner or the deputy local liquor
control commissioner may order the licensee to pay to the village reasonable
attorney fees incurred by the village and the local liquor control commissioner
or the deputy local liquor control commissioner in the prosecution of the
violation.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â If such decision is appealed and is upheld by the state liquor control
commission, the licensee shall be responsible for attorney fees incurred by the
village in defending the appeal to the state liquor control commission.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Any servant or employee engaged in the business of the sale of
alcoholic liquors or beverages who shall violate any section of this chapter
shall be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and
not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. (Ord. 09-
58, 11-16-2009)
3-3-14: BEVERAGE ALCOHOL SELLERS AND SERVERS TRAINING (BASSET) PROGRAM:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Each applicant for a liquor license shall have each person who will
supervise or be in charge of the sale of liquor upon commencement of their
license successfully complete a beverage alcohol sellers and servers training
(BASSET) program conducted by an agency licensed by the Illinois liquor
commission, or successfully complete a state of Illinois certified alcohol
awareness program, prior to issuance of a liquor license except as set forth in
subsections B and C of this section. Proof of successful completion of BASSET
training shall be required prior to issuance of the liquor license.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Each employee, whether or not supervisory, of a liquor licensee, who is
engaged in the selling, mixing, preparing, serving or delivering of alcoholic
beverages to customers, guests or patrons, for consumption on or off the
premises, shall successfully complete a BASSET program conducted by an agency
licensed by the Illinois liquor control commission, or successfully complete a
state of Illinois certified alcohol awareness program. Such training shall be
completed not more than sixty (60) days after the employee begins employment
with the licensee. A copy of the employee's certificate of completion of
training shall be filed with the village liquor commission.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Liquor license applicants applying for a liquor license effective
January 1, 2010, shall be granted a ninety (90) day grace period from January
1, 2010, to have supervisors and employees, as designated by this section,
successfully complete a BASSET program conducted by an agency licensed by the
Illinois liquor commission, or successfully complete a state of Illinois
certified alcohol awareness program. This grace period shall not apply to new
liquor license applicants when the application for the liquor license is
submitted after December 31, 2009.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Liquor license holders shall keep a standing record of when the
required BASSET training, and/or successfully completed a state of Illinois
certified alcohol awareness program, was completed. This will include, but is
not limited to, a photocopy of a BASSET card and/or a photocopy of a
certificate from a state of Illinois certified alcohol awareness program. This
standing record shall be kept on the business premises and available to
inspection by representative(s) of the village liquor commission or other
village representative. (Ord. 09-58, 11-16-2009)
3-3-15: SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Suspension Of Business Operation: When the conduct or operation of any
liquor licensee shall constitute a nuisance in fact and a clear and present
danger to the public health, safety, or general welfare, the liquor control
commissioner shall be authorized to summarily order the cessation of business,
the closing of the premises and the suspension of any license for a period not
to exceed seven (7) days. Within the seven (7) days after he or she has so
acted, the liquor control commissioner shall call a hearing for the purpose of
determining whether the license should be suspended for an additional period of
time or revoked.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Revocation Of License: Liquor licenses issued under this chapter,
unless otherwise provided, may be suspended for up to thirty (30) days or
revoked by the liquor control commissioner after notice and hearing as provided
below for any of the following causes:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for the license;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any violation by the licensee of this code relating to the license,
the subject matter of the license, or the premises occupied;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Conviction of the licensee of any felony or of a misdemeanor when
such conviction indicates his or her inability to operate a safe, honest, or
legitimate business operation within the village;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Failure of the licensee to pay any fine or penalty owing to the
village;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Refusal to permit an inspection, or any interference with a duly
authorized village officer or employee while in the performance of his or her
duties in making such inspections, as provided in this chapter; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Any other violation of any village code, ordinances, resolutions, or
regulations.
Such suspension or revocation, if ordered, shall not preclude prosecution and
imposition of any other penalties provided for the violation of other
applicable ordinances of the village.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Hearing: Notice of the hearing for suspension or revocation of a
license shall be given in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the
complaint and the time and place of the hearing.
At the hearing, the village attorney shall present the complaint and shall
represent the village. The licensee shall be permitted counsel and shall have
the right to submit evidence and cross examine witnesses. A stenographic or
electronically recorded record of the hearing shall be kept. The liquor control
commissioner and/or his designee shall preside and shall render the decision
within a reasonable time after the conclusion of the hearing, but not later
than thirty (30) days thereafter. The decision shall be in writing and shall
summarize the evidence and state the reasons for the decision.
Any licensee whose license is suspended or revoked shall pay to the village the
costs of the hearing before the liquor control commissioner and/or his
designee.
The liquor control commissioner and/or his designee shall determine the costs
incurred by the village for the hearing, including, but not limited to, court
reporter fees, the costs of transcripts or records, attorney fees, the cost of
preparing and mailing notices and orders, and all other miscellaneous expenses
incurred by the village or such lesser sum as the liquor control commissioner
and/or his designee may allow.
The licensee shall pay said costs to the village within thirty (30) days of
notification of the costs by the liquor control commissioner and/or his
designee. Failure to pay these costs within thirty (30) days of notification is
a violation of this section and may be cause for license suspension or
revocation or the levy of a fine. (Ord. 09-58, 11-16-2009)
3-3-16: LICENSEE OR REPRESENTATIVE'S PRESENCE ON PREMISES:
An owner, partner, corporate officer or approved manager must be present on the
premises licensed under this chapter during all business hours. In addition to
any other penalty imposed for violations of this chapter, a minimum fine of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) and a maximum fine of seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) shall be imposed for violations of this section. (Ord. 09-58, 11-16-
2009)
3-3-17: RESPONSIBILITY FOR AGENTS AND EMPLOYEES:
Every act or omission of whatsoever nature, constituting a violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter by an officer, director, manager or other agent
or employee of any licensee, if such act is committed or omission is made
within the scope of such agency or employment or with the authorization,
knowledge, or approval of the licensee, shall be deemed and held to be the act
of such employer or licensee and such employer and licensee shall be punishable
in the same manner as if such act or omission has been done or omitted by the
licensee personally. (Ord. 09-58, 11-16-2009)
3-3-18: DECOY/STING OPERATIONS:
The chief of police, and/or the local liquor control commissioner, the deputy
local liquor control commissioner and/or their respective designees are hereby
authorized to conduct sting operations for the purpose of purchasing alcoholic
beverages and/or tobacco products through the use of decoy agents under the
minimum age for the lawful purchase of the alcoholic beverages or tobacco
products. The local liquor control commissioner, the deputy local liquor
control commissioner and the chief of police are hereby authorized to adopt
rules, regulations and procedures for the employ of underage decoy agents.
(Ord. 09-58, 11-16-2009)
3-3-19: CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR AT UNLICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS
PROHIBITED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No person or entity shall allow alcoholic liquor to be brought into
and/or consumed on the premises of an establishment which is not in possession
of a retail liquor dealer's license specifically allowing alcoholic liquor to
be sold and/or consumed on such premises; provided, however, nothing contained
in this section shall prevent the possession and transportation of alcoholic
liquor for the lawful, noncommercial use of the possessor, and his family and
guests within the possessor's own property.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No person shall bring to and/or consume alcoholic liquor upon the
premises of an establishment which is not in possession of a retail liquor
dealer's license specifically allowing the sale and/or consumption of alcoholic
liquor on such premises.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â For purposes of this section, an "establishment" shall be defined as an
enterprise or concern, whether for profit or not, which is engaged in the
conducting of business within the village.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Individuals and entities which violate this section shall be subject to
the penalties described in section
1-4-1, "General Penalty", of this code. Further, establishments which violate
this section may be subject to revocation of operating and business licenses.
(Ord. 10-38, 8-16-2010)
CHAPTER 4
AMUSEMENTS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Applicability Of Provisions
3-4-2: License Required
3-4-3: Circuses And Carnivals, Bond Required
3-4-4: Conditions Of License
3-4-5: Building And Premises
3-4-6: Enforcement
3-4-1: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter, except as to licenses and fees, shall apply to
all public shows, theatricals, circuses and other amusements in the Village,
whether licensed specifically in another article of this chapter or not. (1987
Code)
3-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate any amusement which is open to the
public and for admission to which a fee is charged without having first secured
a license therefor; provided, that the provisions of this section shall not be
held to apply to those amusements which are specifically licensed by other
provisions of this chapter, this Code or other ordinances. Applications for
such licenses shall be made to the Village Clerk and shall comply with the
general provisions of this chapter relating to such applications. Except as
otherwise provided, the fees for such licenses shall be as provided in section
3-1A-1 of this title. (1987 Code)
3-4-3: CIRCUSES AND CARNIVALS, BOND REQUIRED:
No license for a circus, menagerie or carnival shall be issued until the
applicant therefor shall have filed with the Village Clerk a surety and
indemnity bond in such amount as may be required by the Board of Trustees from
a surety company authorized to do business in the State. The bond shall be
approved by the Village Attorney and shall be conditioned to save harmless the
Village from any liability which might arise by reason of the operation or
conduct of such circus, menagerie or carnival. (1987 Code)
3-4-4: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Order, Crowding:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The audience of any amusement, show or theatrical shall be orderly
and quiet at all times and it shall be unlawful to create or permit a
disturbance at such performance.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful to permit or gather such a crowd to witness any
amusement or show as to create a dangerous condition because of fire or other
risks.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Indecent Shows: It shall be unlawful for any person to present, exhibit
or conduct any indecent show, theatrical, motion picture, exhibition or other
form of public amusement or show.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Riots, Public Disturbances: It shall be unlawful to present any public
amusement or show of any kind which tends to or is calculated to cause or
promote any riot or public disturbance. (1987 Code)
3-4-5: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Compliance With Building Regulations: It shall be unlawful to conduct
or hold any public show, theatrical or public meeting in any building or
premises which does not comply with the requirements of this Code, the Village
Fire Code 1  and other ordinances of this Village relating to the construction
of buildings. (1987 Code; amd. Ord. 2018-33, 12-17-2018)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Exits Required: It shall be unlawful to conduct or hold any such
performance or exhibition in any place not equipped with adequate exits, and
all exits in such building or place shall be kept free of access and
unobstructed. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See title 5, chapter 2 of this Code.
3-4-6: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the chief of police to see to the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter. (1987 Code)
ARTICLE A. POOL AND BILLIARD ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-4A-1: License Required
3-4A-2: Application For License, Fee
3-4A-3: Consent Of Adjoining Landowners
3-4A-4: Closing Hours
3-4A-5: Minors
3-4A-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall operate, maintain or conduct a billiard, pool, bagatelle or
pigeon hole table open to the public without first having secured a license
therefor as provided in this Article. (1987 Code)
3-4A-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE, FEE:
All applications for such licenses shall be made in writing to the Village
Clerk and shall state thereon the location of the place of business and the
number of tables to be used therein. The annual license fee for any license
required by this Article shall be as provided in Section
3-1A-1 of this Title. (1987 Code)
3-4A-3: CONSENT OF ADJOINING LANDOWNERS:
It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate any billiard or pool establishment
anywhere in the Village where a majority of the buildings lying wholly within a
radius of three hundred feet (300') are used for residential purposes without
having first secured the written consent of the owners of two-thirds (2/3) of
the lots or parcels of land lying within such radius. (1987 Code)
3-4A-4: CLOSING HOURS:
All pool or billiard establishments open to the public in this Village are
hereby required to be closed for all purposes and cease doing business of any
kind whatsoever at one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and they shall remain so closed and
no business whatever be done therein until six o'clock (6:00) A.M. (1987 Code)
3-4A-5: MINORS:
Minors under the age of seventeen (17) years shall under no circumstances
frequent, loiter, go or remain in any pool or billiard establishment licensed
pursuant to this Article at any time unless it be upon some lawful errand and
sent by the direction and with the consent and knowledge of the parent,
guardian or other person having the lawful custody of such minor. It shall be
unlawful for the proprietor of any pool or billiard establishment so licensed
to allow or permit any such minor to frequent, loiter or remain within the pool
or billiard establishment in violation of this Section. (1987 Code)
ARTICLE B. BOWLING ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-4B-1: License Required
3-4B-2: Application For License
3-4B-3: Consent Of Adjoining Landowners
3-4B-4: Conditions Of License
3-4B-5: Sanitary Conditions
3-4B-6: Parking Requirements
3-4B-1: LICENSE REQUIRED 1 :
It shall be unlawful to operate or conduct a bowling lane, pin or ball lane
open to the public or for use of which a fee is charged, without having first
secured a license therefor. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See section 3-1A-1 of this title for license fees.
3-4B-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applications for licenses shall conform to the general provisions of this
chapter relating to applications for licenses and shall state, in addition to
all other matters required, the number of lanes to be operated. (1987 Code)
3-4B-3: CONSENT OF ADJOINING LANDOWNERS:
It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate any bowling lane anywhere in the
village where a majority of the buildings lying wholly within a radius of three
hundred feet (300') are used for residential purposes without having first
secured the written consent of the owners of two-thirds (2/3) of the lots or
parcels of land within such radius. (1987 Code)
3-4B-4: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Conduct Of Patrons: It shall be unlawful to permit boisterous or
disorderly conduct by any persons in or on the premises operated as a bowling
lane, or to use or permit the use of profane, obscene or indecent language
therein.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Gambling Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to gamble, to
bet or to tolerate any form of gambling or betting in any premises used for a
bowling lane, pin or ball lane. (1987 Code)
3-4B-5: SANITARY CONDITIONS:
It shall be the duty of every person conducting or operating a bowling lane,
pin or ball lane in the village to keep the premises in a clean and sanitary
condition. (1987 Code)
3-4B-6: PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
No such business shall be conducted, and no such license shall be issued,
unless there is provided within two hundred feet (200') of the premises an
adequate and suitable place for the parking of at least two (2) motor vehicles
for each lane operated, which place shall not be on any public street, parkway
or lane or other public place. The use of such parking place shall be permitted
without extra charge to patrons of the bowling lane. (1987 Code)
ARTICLE C. COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES
SECTION:
3-4C-1: Definitions
3-4C-2: License Required
3-4C-3: Application For License
3-4C-4: License Fees, Renewals
3-4C-5: Term Of License, License Nontransferable
3-4C-6: Investigations
3-4C-7: License To Be Posted
3-4C-8: Limitation On Number Of Devices
3-4C-9: Conditions Of License
3-4C-10: Revocation Of License
3-4C-11: Penalty
3-4C-1: DEFINITIONS:
COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE: Any mechanical or electronic amusement machine
or device, the operation of which is governed or controlled by the deposit of a
coin or token, including, without being limited thereto, any such coin-
controlled machine or device capable of producing or reproducing any vocal or
instrumental sounds, for the purpose of amusement or skill and for the playing
of which a fee is charged. The term does not include vending machines in which
are not incorporated gambling or amusement features, nor does the term include
any coin-operated mechanical musical devices or billiard or pool tables.
MULTIPLE-PLAY MACHINES OR DEVICES: Any machine or device in which more than one
coin, token or similar object can be inserted so as to affect the results of
the person playing such machine or device.
OPERATOR: Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or association who sets up
for operation by another or leases or distributes for the purpose of operation
by another, any machine or device as herein described, whether such setting up
for operation, leasing or distributing be for a fixed charge or rental, or on a
basis of a division of the income derived from such device or otherwise.
PROPRIETOR: Any person, firm, partnership, corporation, association or club
who, as the owner, lessee or proprietor, has under his or its control, any
establishment, place or premises in or at which such machine or device is
placed or kept for use or play or on exhibition for the purpose of use or play.
SINGLE-PLAY MACHINES OR DEVICES: Any machine or device in which not more than
one coin, token or similar object can be inserted for the playing of said
machine or device. (1987 Code)
3-4C-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the business of an operator or proprietor of coin-
operated amusement devices, as the terms are herein defined, without first
having obtained the proper license therefor. (1987 Code)
3-4C-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
An application for said license shall be made to the Village Clerk in
conformity with Chapter 1 of this Title, except as otherwise provided herein.
In addition, the application shall set forth the following:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The location and character of the building or place where such
amusement device is to be located, maintained or operated;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The charge to be made to the player for operating each such device; and
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The main or principal occupation or business being conducted or to be
conducted by the applicant upon the same premises wherein such device or
devices are to be located, maintained or operated. The proper license fee shall
accompany such application. (1987 Code)
3-4C-4: LICENSE FEES, RENEWALS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Operator: The license fee for an operator shall be as set forth in
section
3-1A-1 of this title, payable upon application for the license and renewable
annually, for each year the operator sets up, sells, leases or distributes coin
operated amusement devices within the village.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Proprietor: The license fee for a proprietor shall be as set forth in
section
3-1A-1 of this title, for each coin operated amusement device placed or kept by
the proprietor for public use within the village. This fee shall be payable
upon application for the license and said license shall be renewable annually.
(1987 Code)
3-4C-5: TERM OF LICENSE, LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE:
All licenses under this article shall expire on December 31, following their
issuance and no license issued to any person under this article shall be
transferable. (1987 Code)
3-4C-6: INVESTIGATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Applicant: Applications for license hereunder shall first be referred
by the village clerk to the president and board of trustees who shall make or
cause to be made such investigation as they deem necessary. If the application
is approved by the president and board of trustees, the license shall be issued
by the village clerk. If the license is denied, the fee shall be returned to
the applicant.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Premises, Machines: No such license shall be issued until the office of
the building commissioner shall have investigated the location wherein the
machine or device is proposed to be operated and has determined that the
proposed operation of the machine or device complies with all the terms of this
article and other applicable ordinances of the village. (1987 Code)
3-4C-7: LICENSE TO BE POSTED:
The license or licenses herein provided for shall be posted permanently or
conspicuously at the location in the premises wherein the machine or device is
to be operated or maintained. (1987 Code)
3-4C-8: LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF DEVICES:
No license shall be issued to any proprietor or for any premises in excess of
one license for every five hundred (500) square feet of gross floor area for
each premises in which said machine or device is located; provided however,
that no more than six (6) such amusement devices may be located, maintained or
operated in or upon any single business establishment, and no such device or
devices shall be so located, maintained or operated unless the location,
maintenance or operation thereof is secondary or incidental to the main or
principal occupation or business being conducted or to be conducted by the
applicant in or upon said establishment. (1987 Code)
3-4C-9: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Closing Hours: No coin operated amusement device shall be operated on
any premises within the village between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Disturbing The Peace, Nuisances: No license issued hereunder shall
permit the operation of a coin operated amusement device at any place or in any
manner which will disturb the peace of persons otherwise properly within or
without the licensed premises, or shall permit the operation thereof to amount
to a nuisance in fact.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Gambling: No coin operated amusement device shall be operated or
permitted to be used in such a manner as to violate the gambling laws of the
village or of the state 1 .
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â No Free Replays: No proprietor, operator or person in charge of a coin
operated amusement device shall permit free replays to players on the basis of
the player's skill, accumulated score or any other means, and no machine shall
record or indicate free replays. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/28-1 et seq.
3-4C-10: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The President and Board of Trustees shall have the right to revoke any license
issued hereunder for the violation of any of the provisions of this Article.
(1987 Code)
3-4C-11: PENALTY:
Any person violating or refusing to comply with any of the provisions of this
Article shall be subject to the penalties described in Section
1-4-1, General Penalty, of this Code for each offense, and a separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues. (1987 Code; amd. Ord. 2019-15, 6-17-2019)
ARTICLE D. MOTION PICTURES AND THEATRICALS
SECTION:
3-4D-1: License Required, Exceptions
3-4D-2: Application For License
3-4D-3: License Fees
3-4D-4: Building And Premises
3-4D-5: Crowding
3-4D-6: Types Of Motion Pictures Restricted
3-4D-1: LICENSE REQUIRED, EXCEPTIONS:
It shall be unlawful to give, present or conduct any motion pictures or
theatricals, for admittance to which a fee is charged, excepting performances
given solely for the benefit of and under the supervision and auspices of a
religious, educational or charitable organization, without having first secured
a license therefor. (1987 Code)
3-4D-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applications for licenses shall be made in conformance with the general
provisions relating to such applications as set out in Chapter 1 of this Title
and shall state in addition to the other information required, the place of the
intended performance and the seating capacity thereof. (1987 Code)
3-4D-3: LICENSE FEES:
The license fees for motion pictures including those which are to be presented
in premises which are not covered by an annual license, shall be as provided in
Section
3-1A-1 of this Title. (1987 Code)
3-4D-4: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
No motion picture shall be presented in or on any premises or building which
does not fully comply with the requirements of this Code for the construction
or maintenance of buildings for this purpose.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Exits: It shall be unlawful to present any public motion picture in any
building or structure which does not contain the number of exits required for
buildings or places intended for motion picture performances by this Code and
the ordinances of the Village or by State statute.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Electric Wiring 1 : It shall be unlawful to present any public motion
picture in premises in which the electric wiring does not fully comply with
this Code.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Ventilation: All places used for the exhibition of theatricals must be
kept adequately ventilated during the performance and for so long a time as the
audience may remain therein.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Obstruction Of Exits And Aisles: It shall be unlawful to obstruct or
permit the obstruction of any aisles, corridors or exits leading from any room
or enclosure in which a motion picture performance is being given or in which
an audience for such a performance is gathered.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Scenery: It shall be unlawful to use scenery in any theater that has
not been rendered noninflammable by application of fire preventive coatings or
by other adequate means.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Parking Requirements: No such business shall be conducted, and no
license shall be issued, unless there is provided within one hundred feet
(100') of the premises adequate and suitable place for the parking of at least
one motor vehicle for each four (4) seats, which place shall not be on any
public street, parkway or alley or other public place. The use of such parking
place shall be permitted without extra charge to patrons of the theater. (1987
Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9, Chapter 3 of this Code.
3-4D-5: CROWDING:
It shall be unlawful to permit any person, excepting ushers or other theater
employees, to remain standing in a hall or room in which a motion picture is
presented during the time of such performance, and it shall be unlawful to
admit to any hall more persons than can be accommodated by the seating
arrangements for the premises. (1987 Code)
3-4D-6: TYPES OF MOTION PICTURES RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful to offer or present any motion picture which has a
tendency to cause a riot or public disturbance of the peace, or any indecent
picture or performance 2 . (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
2 2. See Title 6, Chapter 6 of this Code.
CHAPTER 5
AUCTIONS AND AUCTIONEERS
SECTION:
3-5-1: License Required, Exceptions
3-5-2: Application For License
3-5-3: Investigation Of Applicant
3-5-4: Number Of Employees, Liability Of Licensee
3-5-1: LICENSE REQUIRED 1 , EXCEPTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct an auction in the Village or to
do business as an auctioneer, whether the goods are owned by the auctioneer or
not, without having first obtained a license therefor.
Nothing in this Chapter shall be held to apply to any public auction or sale
made or conducted by a public officer by virtue of any judicial order or
process or by virtue of any power or authority in a mortgage or trust deed.
(1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See Section 3-1A-1 of this Title for license fees.
3-5-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for an auctioneer's license or for a single auction shall state
thereon the place of business intended to be occupied if any, or the place of
such auction, and such applications shall give the names of the employees, not
to exceed two (2), who are to be authorized to conduct auctions under the
authority of the license. (1987 Code)
3-5-3: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
No such license shall be issued to any but a person of good character. The
Chief of Police shall investigate the character of each applicant before the
license shall be issued. (1987 Code)
3-5-4: NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES, LIABILITY OF LICENSEE:
Every person licensed as an auctioneer may designate not to exceed two (2)
employees who may be authorized by him to conduct auctions. The employer shall
be liable for any violations of this Code and other ordinances committed by
such employees in conducting an auction. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 6
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
ARTICLE C. CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS
SECTION:
3-6C-1: Applicability Of Provisions
3-6C-2: Registration Required
3-6C-3: Application To Solicit, Liability Insurance
3-6C-4: Approval Of Solicitation Request
3-6C-5: Conditions Of Solicitations
3-6C-6: Violation
3-6C-1: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Solicitors: In accordance with State law, no person shall stand on a
highway or street within the Village for the purpose of soliciting
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle except as specifically permitted
herein.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Soliciting Agencies: Solicitation on highways and streets within the
Village shall be permitted for only those soliciting agents which meet the
requirements contained herein. (1987 Code)
3-6C-2: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Soliciting agencies shall be registered with the Attorney General as a
charitable organization as provided in "An Act to regulate a solicitation and
collection of funds for charitable purposes, providing for violations thereof,
and making an appropriation thereof", approved July 26, 1963, as amended 1 ,
and such agencies must be engaged in a Statewide fundraising activity. (1987
Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 460/1 et seq.
3-6C-3: APPLICATION TO SOLICIT, LIABILITY INSURANCE:
Soliciting agencies shall make application upon a form provided by the office
of the Village Clerk wherein it shall be liable for, and indemnify the Village,
against any injuries to any person or property during the solicitation which is
related to an act of ordinary negligence of the soliciting agent. Such agencies
shall present proof of public liability insurance in the amount of one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal injury and five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00) for property damage, and show the Village as an additional
insured. (1987 Code)
3-6C-4: APPROVAL OF SOLICITATION REQUEST:
All requests for permission to solicit hereunder shall be approved by the
President and Board of Trustees before solicitation commences. (1987 Code)
3-6C-5: CONDITIONS OF SOLICITATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Location: Solicitation on streets and highways within the Village shall
be allowed only at intersections where all traffic is required to come to a
full stop.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Minors: Soliciting agencies shall not permit solicitation by any person
under seventeen (17) years of age.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Clothing: Soliciting agencies shall cause any person engaged in the act
of solicitation to be wearing a high- visibility vest. (1987 Code)
3-6C-6: VIOLATION:
Any person who violates the provisions of this Article shall be in violation of
State law 1  and shall be subject to prosecution thereunder. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/11-1006.
ARTICLE A. PEDDLERS, ITINERANT VENDORS AND CANVASSERS
SECTION:
3-6A-1: License Required
3-6A-2: Application For License
3-6A-3: Bond
3-6A-4: Investigation, Fee
3-6A-5: Approval Or Disapproval Of License Application
3-6A-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of peddling,
itinerant vending or canvassing within the Village without having first
procured a license therefor. (1987 Code)
3-6A-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE 1 :
Applicants for a license under this article must file with the Village Clerk a
sworn application in writing, in duplicate, on a form to be furnished by him,
which shall give the following:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Name of applicant.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Permanent home address and full local address of applicant.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Names, permanent home addresses and full local addresses of each
peddler, itinerant vendor or canvasser or any other member of a transient or
itinerant crew.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Brief description of the nature of applicant's business.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â If employed, the name and address of the employer together with
credentials establishing the exact relationship.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â The length of time for which the right to do business is required.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â A photograph of the applicant and each member of the applicant's crew
taken within sixty (60) days immediately prior to the date of filing the
application, which picture shall be two inches by two inches (2" x 2") showing
the head and shoulders in a clear and distinguishing manner.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â The names of at least two (2) reliable property owners of Cook County
who will certify as to the applicant's good character and business
respectability, or in lieu of the names of references, such other evidence as
to the good character and business responsibility of the applicant as will
enable an investigator of the Village to properly evaluate such character and
business responsibility.
Upon receipt of the application, the original shall be submitted to the
President and Board of Trustees for their consideration. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See section 3-1A-1 of this title for license fees.
3-6A-3: BOND:
Every applicant for a peddler's, itinerant vendor's or canvasser's license
shall file with the Village Clerk a surety bond running to the Village in the
amount as provided in section
3-1-6 of this title with surety acceptable to and in form approved by the
Village Attorney, conditioned that the applicant shall comply fully with all
the provisions of this Code and the ordinances of the Village and guaranteeing
to any resident in the Village that all money paid as a down payment will be
accounted for and applied according to the representations of such peddler,
itinerant vendor or canvasser and further guaranteeing to any resident of the
Village that any merchandise or service contracted for will be delivered or
performed according to the presentations of such peddler, itinerant vendor or
canvasser. (1987 Code)
3-6A-4: INVESTIGATION, FEE:
At the time of filing the application, a fee of ten dollars ($10.00) shall be
paid to the Village Clerk to cover the cost of the investigation of the facts
stated on the application. This fee is in addition to the license fees shown in
section
3-1A-1 of this title.
Upon receipt of the application, the duplicate shall be transferred to the
Chief of Police who shall cause such investigation of the applicant's business
and moral character to be made as he deems necessary for the protection of the
public good. (1987 Code)
3-6A-5: APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL OF LICENSE APPLICATION:
The report of the Chief of Police on the application shall be forwarded to the
President and Board of Trustees. The President and Board of Trustees, together
with the original application and the report of the Chief of Police, shall
either approve or disapprove the application at the regularly constituted
meeting following date of application for permit. (1987 Code)
ARTICLE B. SOLICITORS
SECTION:
3-6B-1: Definitions
3-6B-2: Certificate Of Registration Required, Application
3-6B-3: Issuance And Revocation Of Certificate
3-6B-4: Village Policy On Soliciting
3-6B-5: Notice Regulating Soliciting
3-6B-6: Duty Of Solicitors
3-6B-7: Uninvited Soliciting Prohibited
3-6B-8: Time Limit On Soliciting
3-6B-9: Soliciting Business On Streets, Highways Or Public Sidewalks
3-6B-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Article, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this Section:
Â 
REGISTERED  Any person who has obtained a valid certificate of registration as hereinafter
SOLICITOR:  provided, and which certificate is in the possession of the solicitor on his or her
            person while engaged in soliciting.
            Every separate living unit occupied for residential purposes by one or more persons
RESIDENCE:  contained within any type of building or structure providing they comply with
            Section
            3-6B-5 of this Article.
            A.Â Â Â Shall include any one or more of the following activities:
            Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares, merchandise,
            foodstuffs, services of any kind, character or description whatever, for any kind of
            consideration whatever.
            Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase of
            insurance of any type, kind or character.
            Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals, newspaper
            and every other type or kind of publication.
SOLICITING: Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any other
            valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit
            organization, association, corporation or project.
            B.Â Â Â Solicitation may be carried out by means of:
            Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â In-person contacts at the residence;
            Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Written material mailed or delivered directly to the residence, such as
            direct mail, leaflets or pamphlets; or
            Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Telephone contacts with owners of occupants of the residence. (1987 Code;
            amd. Ord. 2023-17-CO, 6-26-2023)
Â 
3-6B-2: CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION REQUIRED, APPLICATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Certificate Required, Fees: Every person desiring to engage in
"soliciting" as herein defined from persons in residences within this
Municipality is hereby required to make written application for a certificate
of registration as hereinafter provided together with the fees as required in
Section
3-1A-1 of this Title.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Application For Certificate: Application for a certificate of
registration shall be made upon a form provided by the Village Clerk and filed
with the Clerk. The applicant shall truthfully state in full, the following
information requested on the application:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Name and address of present place of residence and length of
residence at such address; business address if other than residence address;
also social security number;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Address or place of residence during the past three (3) years if
other than present address;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Age of applicant;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Physical description of the applicant;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Name and address of the person whom the applicant is employed by or
represents; and the length of time of such employment or representation;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Name and address of employer during the past three (3) years if
other than the present employer;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter of
the soliciting which the applicant will engage in;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Period of time for which the certificate is applied;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â The date, or approximate date, of the latest previous application
for certificate under this Article, if any;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â Has a certificate of registration issued to the applicant under
this Article ever been revoked;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â Has the applicant ever been convicted of a violation of any of the
provisions of this Article, or the ordinance of any other Illinois municipality
regulating soliciting;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 12.Â Â Â Has the applicant ever been convicted of the commission of a felony
under the laws of the State or any other state or Federal law of the United
States;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 13.Â Â Â Such additional information as the Chief of Police may deem
necessary.
All statements made by the applicant upon the application or in connection
therewith shall be under oath.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Fingerprints Required: Every applicant shall submit to fingerprinting
by the Police Department in connection with the application for certificate.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Records Kept: The Village Clerk shall cause to be kept in his office an
accurate record of every application received and acted upon together with all
other information and data pertaining thereto and all certificates of
registration issued under the provisions of this Article and of the denial of
applications. Applications for certificates shall be numbered in consecutive
order as filed. Every certificate issued and any renewal thereof shall be
identified with the duplicate number of the application upon which it was
issued.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Persons Not Eligible For Certificates: No certificate of registration
shall be issued to any person who has been convicted of the commission of a
felony under the laws of the State or any other state or Federal law of the
United States, within five (5) years of the date of the application; nor to any
person whose certificate of registration issued hereunder has previously been
revoked as herein provided. (1987 Code)
3-6B-3: ISSUANCE AND REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Issuance Of Certificate: The Village Clerk, after consideration of the
application and all information obtained relative thereto, shall deny the
application if applicant does not possess the qualifications for such
certificate as herein required, and that the issuance of a certificate of
registration to the applicant would not be in accord with the intent and
purpose of this Article. Endorsement shall be made by the Village Clerk upon
the application of the denial of the application. When the applicant is found
to be fully qualified, the certificate of registration shall be issued
forthwith.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Revocation Of Certificate: A certificate of registration issued
hereunder shall be revoked by the Village Clerk if the holder of the
certificate is convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this
Article, or has made a false material statement in the application, or
otherwise becomes disqualified for the issuance of a certificate of
registration under the terms of this Article. Immediately upon such revocation,
written notice thereof shall be given by the Village Clerk to the holder of the
certificate in person or by certified U.S. mail addressed to his or her
residence address set forth in the application. Immediately upon the giving of
such notice the certificate of registration shall become null and void. (1987
Code)
3-6B-4: VILLAGE POLICY ON SOLICITING:
It is hereby declared to be the policy of the governing body of this
Municipality that the occupant or occupants of the residences in this
Municipality shall make the determination of whether in-person solicitors shall
be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences. If no
determination is made as is provided in Section
3-6B-5 of this Article then, in that event, registration is not required.
Solicitation by means other than in-person contacts shall be permitted. (1987
Code; amd. Ord. 2023-17-CO, 6-26-2023)
3-6B-5: NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING:
Every person desiring to secure the protection intended to be provided by the
regulations pertaining to soliciting contained in this Article, shall comply
with the following directions:
Notice of the determination by the occupant of giving invitation to solicitors,
or the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence, shall be given in
the manner as follows:
A weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four inches (3" x 4") in
size, shall be exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words
as follows:
Â Â Â ONLY SOLICITORS REGISTERED IN BROADVIEW INVITED
Â Â Â or
Â Â Â NO SOLICITORS INVITED
The letters shall be at least one-third inch (1/3") in height. For the purpose
of uniformity the cards shall be provided by the Village to persons requesting
at no charge. Such card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon. (1987 Code)
3-6B-6: DUTY OF SOLICITORS:
It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises in the
Municipality upon which a "residence" as herein defined is located to first
examine the notice provided for in Section
3-6B-5 of this Article, if any is attached, and be governed by the statement
contained on the notice. If the notice states "ONLY SOLICITORS REGISTERED IN
BROADVIEW INVITED", then the solicitor not possessing a valid certificate
registration as herein provided, shall immediately and peacefully depart from
the premises; and if the notice states "NO SOLICITORS INVITED", then the
solicitor, whether registered or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart
from the premises.
Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether invited or not,
shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when requested to do
so by the occupant. (1987 Code)
3-6B-7: UNINVITED SOLICITING PROHIBITED:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in "soliciting" as herein defined, in defiance of
the notice exhibited at the residence in accordance with the provisions of
Section
3-6B-5 of this Article. (1987 Code)
3-6B-8: TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person whether registered under this Article or not, to go upon any premises
and ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a residence located thereon, or
rap or knock upon any door, or create any sound in any other manner calculated
to attract the attention of the occupant of such residence, for the purpose of
securing an audience with the occupant thereof, and engage in "soliciting" as
herein defined, prior to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. or after eight o'clock (8:00)
P.M. of any weekday, or at any time on a Sunday or on a State or national
holiday. (1987 Code)
3-6B-9: SOLICITING BUSINESS ON STREETS, HIGHWAYS OR PUBLIC SIDEWALKS:
No person shall stand on any street, highway or other thoroughfare or public
sidewalk in the Village for the purpose of soliciting business, employment or
sales from the driver or occupant of any motor vehicle. (1987 Code)
ARTICLE C. CHARITABLE SOLICITATIONS
SECTION:
3-6C-1: Applicability Of Provisions
3-6C-2: Registration Required
3-6C-3: Application To Solicit, Liability Insurance
3-6C-4: Approval Of Solicitation Request
3-6C-5: Conditions Of Solicitations
3-6C-6: Violation
3-6C-1: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Solicitors: In accordance with State law, no person shall stand on a
highway or street within the Village for the purpose of soliciting
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle except as specifically permitted
herein.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Soliciting Agencies: Solicitation on highways and streets within the
Village shall be permitted for only those soliciting agents which meet the
requirements contained herein. (1987 Code)
3-6C-2: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Soliciting agencies shall be registered with the Attorney General as a
charitable organization as provided in "An Act to regulate a solicitation and
collection of funds for charitable purposes, providing for violations thereof,
and making an appropriation thereof", approved July 26, 1963, as amended 1 ,
and such agencies must be engaged in a Statewide fundraising activity. (1987
Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 460/1 et seq.
3-6C-3: APPLICATION TO SOLICIT, LIABILITY INSURANCE:
Soliciting agencies shall make application upon a form provided by the office
of the Village Clerk wherein it shall be liable for, and indemnify the Village,
against any injuries to any person or property during the solicitation which is
related to an act of ordinary negligence of the soliciting agent. Such agencies
shall present proof of public liability insurance in the amount of one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal injury and five hundred thousand dollars
($500,000.00) for property damage, and show the Village as an additional
insured. (1987 Code)
3-6C-4: APPROVAL OF SOLICITATION REQUEST:
All requests for permission to solicit hereunder shall be approved by the
President and Board of Trustees before solicitation commences. (1987 Code)
3-6C-5: CONDITIONS OF SOLICITATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Location: Solicitation on streets and highways within the Village shall
be allowed only at intersections where all traffic is required to come to a
full stop.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Minors: Soliciting agencies shall not permit solicitation by any person
under seventeen (17) years of age.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Clothing: Soliciting agencies shall cause any person engaged in the act
of solicitation to be wearing a high- visibility vest. (1987 Code)
3-6C-6: VIOLATION:
Any person who violates the provisions of this Article shall be in violation of
State law 1  and shall be subject to prosecution thereunder. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/11-1006.
CHAPTER 7
SECONDHAND DEALERS AND PAWNBROKERS
SECTION:
3-7-1: License Required
3-7-2: Application For License, Investigation
3-7-3: Records Required, Inspection
3-7-4: Pawnbroker's License Required
3-7-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall operate or conduct a secondhand store in the Village without
having first obtained a license therefor or without complying with the
provisions of this Chapter. (1987 Code)
3-7-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE, INVESTIGATION:
Application for such license shall be made to the Village Clerk in writing and
shall state the location intended to be occupied. Upon receipt of any such
application, the Chief of Police or any person authorized by him or by the
President to do so, shall investigate the character of the applicant. No
license shall be issued to any person of bad character nor to any person who
shall have been convicted of receiving stolen goods, burglary or robbery. (1987
Code)
3-7-3: RECORDS REQUIRED, INSPECTION:
Every person operating a secondhand store shall keep a record of all articles
purchased, which record together with the articles themselves shall be open to
inspection by any member of the Police Department at all reasonable hours.
(1987 Code)
3-7-4: PAWNBROKER'S LICENSE REQUIRED 1 :
No person operating a secondhand store shall do business as a pawnbroker
without having obtained a pawnbroker's license in addition to the secondhand
dealer's license. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See Section 3-1A-1 of this Title for license fees.
CHAPTER 8
TAXICABS
SECTION:
3-8-1: Definition Of Taxicab
3-8-2: Licenses Required
3-8-3: Application For License
3-8-4: Issuance Of Licenses
3-8-5: License Fees
3-8-6: Information Required To Be Carried
3-8-7: Revocation Of Licenses
3-8-8: Insurance Required
3-8-9: Rates
3-8-10: Vehicle Equipment, Condition
3-8-11: Operation Of Vehicle
3-8-12: Soliciting Trade Prohibited
3-8-1: DEFINITION OF TAXICAB:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the term "taxicab" shall mean and include all
vehicles, however propelled, which carry passengers for hire upon or along the
streets of the Village, except vehicles operating regularly upon established
routes. (1987 Code)
3-8-2: LICENSES REQUIRED 1 :
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Business License: No person shall operate or maintain any taxicab
without first obtaining a license therefor and unless the license is in full
force.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Driver's License: No person shall operate a taxicab as the driver
thereof without first having obtained a driver's license in the manner set
forth in this Chapter, and unless the license is in full force. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See Title 7, Chapter 2 of this Code.
3-8-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Business License: Any person desiring a license for any taxicab shall
file an application therefor with the Village Clerk setting forth the name,
business and address of the applicant, a full description of the motor vehicle
for which a license is desired, including the make, model, motor and engine
number and the State license number, and any other information that the
President or the Village Clerk may require.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Driver's License: Any person desiring a license as a driver of a
taxicab shall file an application with the Village Clerk setting forth the
name, sex, residence address, date and place of birth, former occupation,
experience as a driver and such other information as the President or Village
Clerk may require. (1987 Code)
3-8-4: ISSUANCE OF LICENSES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Business License: The license for a taxicab shall be issued upon
conformance with the terms of this Chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Driver's License: The license required by subsection 3-8-2B of this
Chapter shall be issued by the Village Clerk to all persons of good moral
character who have complied with this Chapter and with all the laws of the
State governing taxicab drivers. No license shall be issued to any person under
the age of twenty one (21) years. (1987 Code)
3-8-5: LICENSE FEES:
Fees for licenses required herein shall be as provided in Section
3-1A-1 of this Title. Said license fees shall be paid semiannually, in advance.
(1987 Code)
3-8-6: INFORMATION REQUIRED TO BE CARRIED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Certificate For Taxicab: All licenses under this Chapter must be
accompanied by a satisfactorily completed "vehicle inspection report" as
designated in Section
3-8-10 of this Chapter in order for the Village Clerk to issue a certificate
for each taxicab so licensed and so inspected. This certificate shall at all
times be firmly affixed above the Village sticker.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Driver's License To Be Carried At All Times: Every driver shall carry
the license issued to him under this Chapter at all times that he is driving or
on duty with any such taxicab, and shall exhibit it upon demand to any Village
police officer or law enforcement officer.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Rates Posted: The rates as approved by the President and Board of
Trustees shall be posted in plain view in every licensed taxicab.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Additional Information Required: In addition to having the approved
rates posted, the name of the driver, his or her picture and the State license
number shall be posted in each taxicab in front of the passenger compartment in
such a position that it will be in plain view of passenger(s) riding therein
and so lighted as to be plainly visible at night. (1987 Code)
3-8-7: REVOCATION OF LICENSES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Business License: The President shall have the right to revoke any
taxicab license issued under this Chapter whenever the taxicab is not kept in
the mechanical or sanitary condition required by this Chapter, or is not
equipped with a governor or other similar device in good repair. Any such
revocation shall be in compliance with the procedure set out in Section
3-1-11 of this Title.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Driver's License: The President shall have the right to revoke any
license issued under this Chapter to any person as a taxicab driver whenever
such person violates any of the provisions of this Chapter or any other
ordinance governing taxicabs or traffic 1 , and also whenever it appears that a
person holding any such license is not of a good moral character. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See Title 7 of this Code.
3-8-8: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
Every owner of a taxicab operating upon streets in the Village shall submit for
approval to the President and Board of Trustees, insurance policies covering
liability, property damage and medical coverage in the following amounts:
Bodily injury liability
Â Â Â 1 personÂ Â Â $200,000.00
Â Â Â 2 or more personsÂ Â Â 500,000.00
Property damage liabilityÂ Â Â  50,000.00
Medical payments, per personÂ Â Â 5,000.00
A cab owner must also have a certificate (filed with the State) for "uninsured
motorist" of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) per person and twenty thousand
dollars ($20,000.00) for each accident.
Failure to carry such insurance coverage shall subject owner and operator of
each taxicab to a minimum fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00) and not to
exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) or revocation of license or both. (1987
Code)
3-8-9: RATES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Approval Of Rates Required: Rates which are to be charged per trip and
per person must be first submitted and approved by the President and Board of
Trustees before a license is issued. It shall be unlawful to charge more than
the approved rates.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Rates On File: The approved rates shall be on file with the Village
Clerk. (1987 Code)
3-8-10: VEHICLE EQUIPMENT, CONDITION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Meter Required: Every licensed taxicab shall be equipped with a meter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Mechanical Condition, Safety Test Required: Every taxicab operated upon
the streets of the Village shall be kept and maintained in a good and safe
mechanical condition. Every taxicab, during the month of January and the month
of July of each year, shall be subject to a safety test by a duly authorized
State testing station. A sticker showing the passing of such safety test must
be prominently displayed on the window of taxicab. The passing of a safety test
shall not be a bar at any time to prosecution for operating or causing to be
operated a taxicab not in good and safe mechanical condition. Charges for all
safety inspections are to be paid for by the owner of the cab or cab company.
In the event that a safety test by a duly authorized State testing station is
not available for taxicabs, the President and Board of Trustees shall authorize
the License Committee to set up a "vehicle inspection report" form, similar to
that which the State is presently requiring of trucks. Said "vehicle inspection
report" tests are to be made by a licensed mechanic within the State. This form
shall be issued by the Village Clerk to the applicant requesting a business
license. Applicant must return same to the Village Clerk, with all requirements
checked off as satisfactory before a business license certificate can be
issued.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Sanitary Conditions: Each taxicab shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition at all times. (1987 Code)
3-8-11: OPERATION OF VEHICLE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Manner Of Operation: No taxicab shall be driven, operated or controlled
so as to violate any of the parking or traffic regulations of the Village or so
as to obstruct traffic or interfere with the free movement of traffic upon any
street, alley or public place.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Passengers In Front Seat Prohibited, Exception: No person shall be
allowed to ride in the front seat of any taxicab with the driver except at such
times as the rear seat or seats are fully occupied by paying passengers and the
person riding in the front seat is a bona fide paying passenger.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Use Of Taxicab Stands Required 1 : No unemployed taxicab shall stand or
be parked upon any public street or alley except at such places as from time to
time shall be designated by the Board of Trustees as taxicab stands and
allotted to the particular licensee in question.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Operating Under The Influence Of Alcohol Or Controlled Substances: No
person shall drive, operate or control any taxicab while under the influence of
intoxicating liquor or controlled substances. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 7-4-2F of this Code.
3-8-12: SOLICITING TRADE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or driver of any vehicle licensed as a
taxicab, to solicit by word or gesture or otherwise, the patronage of any
person upon any public street in the Village. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 9
GASOLINE STATIONS, PUBLIC GARAGES
ARTICLE A. GASOLINE STATIONS
SECTION:
3-9A-1: Definition
3-9A-2: License Required
3-9A-3: Application For License
3-9A-4: Inspection Of Premises
3-9A-5: Location
3-9A-6: Self-Service Gas Stations
3-9A-6-1: Rules And Regulations Adopted
3-9A-6-2: Permit To Operate
3-9A-6-3: Restrictions
3-9A-6-4: Penalty
3-9A-1: DEFINITION:
"Filling stations" or "gasoline stations", as used in this Article, shall mean
any building, structure or premises, enclosure or other place within the
Village where a container or containers, tank or tanks, either portable or
stationary and containing ether, carbon bisulphite, gasoline, acetone,
kerosene, hydrocarbon, liquefied petroleum, naphtha, turpentine or other
inflammable liquids are kept or located for the purpose of selling, offering
for sale or distributing any such liquid from such container or containers,
tank or tanks. (1987 Code)
3-9A-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall operate the business of a filling station without first having
obtained a license therefor. (1987 Code)
3-9A-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE 1 :
The application for such license for a filling station shall conform to the
general provisions of Chapter 1 of this Title relating to licenses and shall
specify the location of the building, structure, premises, enclosure or other
place in which it is proposed to keep such filling station, and the capacity or
capacities in gallons of the containers, tank or tanks. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See Section 3-1A-1 of this Title for license fees.
3-9A-4: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
Each filling station shall be erected, conducted and maintained in accordance
with the provisions of this Code and the ordinances of the Village, the State
statutes and the rules of the State Fire Marshal. Each filling station shall be
inspected at least twice every year by the Bureau of Fire Prevention 1  or some
person duly authorized to make such inspection. It shall be the duty of the
person making such inspection to see that the premises are maintained in
compliance to this and other sections of this Code to see that there is no
dangerous accumulation of waste or other combustible material on the premises,
and to report to the President any violation which may be discovered during
such inspection. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  5-1-4 of this Code.
3-9A-5: LOCATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Restricted: No filling station or gasoline station or any installation
for the storing and handling of inflammable liquids shall hereafter be
constructed or maintained in the Village within two hundred feet (200') of any
dwelling, school, hospital, church, theater or any public meeting place. The
two hundred feet (200') shall be measured from the extremities of the tracts of
property in question.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Frontage Consents Required In Residential Districts: It shall be
unlawful to conduct or operate any such filling station anywhere in the Village
where a majority of the buildings lying wholly within a radius of three hundred
feet (300') are used for residential purposes without having first secured the
written consent of the owners of two-thirds (2/3) of the lots or parcels of
land lying within such radius. (1987 Code)
3-9A-6: SELF-SERVICE GAS STATIONS:
Self-service gas stations are permissible for operation in the Village. (1987
Code)
3-9A-6-1: RULES AND REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
Rules and regulations relating to the storage, transportation, sale and use of
gasoline and volatile oils, and the law prescribing the color and label for
gasoline or benzol receptacles, are hereby adopted by reference 2 . (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
2 2. 430 ILCS.
3-9A-6-2: PERMIT TO OPERATE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Permit Required: It is hereby unlawful for any individual to operate a
self-service gas station in the corporate limits of the Village unless said
individual has first obtained a permit for the operation thereof.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Information Required: Prior to issuance, an individual must display the
following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A permit issued by the State Fire Marshal of the State of Illinois;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â An accurate description of the location of the self- service gas
station;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The name, address and phone number of the individual owning and
operating the self-service gas station and the name, address and phone number
of the individual owning the property in question.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Fee: Said permit shall require a fee as provided in Section
3-1A-1 of this Title.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Issuance: All said permits issued for the operation of a self-service
gas station shall be issued by the Fire Chief of the Village.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Permit In Addition To Filling Station License: The permit required by
this Section is in addition to and separate from the license required for a
gasoline filling station. (1987 Code)
3-9A-6-3: RESTRICTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Employment Of Minors: No individual shall be permitted to be employed
at a self-service gas station unless said individual has attained the age of
sixteen (16) years.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Use Of Pumps:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Licensed Drivers: Self-service pumps are to be used only by licensed
drivers.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Minor: No individual shall operate any device used for the pumping
of gas within the Village unless that individual has attained the age of
sixteen (16) years.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Portable Containers: It is hereby unlawful to sell gasoline by means of
a portable container unless said portable container is approved by the
Underwriters Laboratory and is six (6) gallons or less in capacity. (1987 Code)
3-9A-6-4: PENALTY:
Any violation of this Section
3-9A-6 is hereby declared to be an offense and is punishable by a fine of not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) but not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) per occurrence. Each day that a violation continues shall be
interpreted as a separate occurrence. (1987 Code)
ARTICLE B. PUBLIC GARAGES
SECTION:
3-9B-1: Definition
3-9B-2: License Required
3-9B-3: Application For License
3-9B-4: Inspections
3-9B-5: Building And Location Restrictions
3-9B-1: DEFINITION:
A "public garage" shall mean the building and grounds used for the storage of
vehicles and/or the repair or maintenance of vehicles. (1987 Code)
3-9B-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall operate or maintain a public garage in the Village without
having first obtained a license therefor. (1987 Code)
3-9B-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE 1 :
Applications for licenses shall be made in writing to the Village Clerk and
shall state the location of the garage and the number of cars which can be
accommodated therein. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See Section 3-1A-1 of this Title for license fees.
3-9B-4: INSPECTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Premises: It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to make or cause to be
made such inspections of public garages in the Village as may be necessary to
ensure compliance with the provisions of this Article.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Vehicles: Any police officer shall be permitted at any reasonable hour
to view every car stored in any public garage, and it shall be unlawful to
hinder any such inspection or to conceal any car or motor vehicle from such
inspection. (1987 Code)
3-9B-5: BUILDING AND LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Generally: It shall be unlawful to maintain or operate any public
garage in any building which does not conform to the requirements of the
building code 1 .
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Frame Building: It shall be unlawful to maintain or operate any public
garage in a frame building.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Location Restricted: It shall be unlawful to maintain or operate any
public garage within fifty feet (50') of any building or structure used for
church, school or theater purposes.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Premises To Be Clean, Safe From Fire: The premises of every garage must
be clean and free from inflammable waste material. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  9-1-2 of this Code.
CHAPTER 10
ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS 1
SECTION:
3-10-1: Electrical Contractor Defined
3-10-2: Certificate Of Registration Required
3-10-3: Application For Certificate
3-10-4: Registration Fee
3-10-5: Compliance With Electrical Regulations, Installation Permit Required
Â 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  9-3-3 of this Code.
3-10-1: ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR DEFINED:
The term "electrical contractor" as used in this Chapter shall mean any person
engaged in the business of installing or altering equipment and electrical
appliances for the utilization of electricity supplied for light, heat or power
not including radio apparatus or equipment for wireless reception of sounds and
signals, and not including apparatus, conductor and other equipment installed
for or by public utilities, including common carriers, which are under the
jurisdiction of the Illinois Commerce Commission for use in their operation as
public utilities. The term "electrical contractor" does not include employees
employed by such contractor to do or supervise such work. (1987 Code)
3-10-2: CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Village Contractors: No person shall engage in the business of
electrical contractor without having first obtained a certificate of
registration therefor as herein required.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Out Of Town Contractors, Fee Exemption: Any electrical contractor who
is registered as such in any other city or village in the State shall not be
required to pay a fee for being registered in this Village, but every person
doing business in this Village as an electrical contractor shall secure a
certificate of registration. Such certificate shall be issued without charge to
electrical contractors registered as such under the ordinances of another city
or village in this State. (1987 Code)
3-10-3: APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE:
Applications for such certificate shall be made to the Village Clerk and a list
of all contractors registered shall be given by the Village Clerk to the Chief
Electrical Inspector. (1987 Code)
3-10-4: REGISTRATION FEE:
The annual fee for registering as an electrical contractor shall be as provided
in subsection 9-3-1D1a of this Code; provided that an application made after
the expiration of the first six (6) months of the register year shall be issued
upon the payment of one-half (1/2) of this fee. The register year shall
correspond with the license year. (1987 Code)
3-10-5: COMPLIANCE WITH ELECTRICAL REGULATIONS, INSTALLATION PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person registered under the provisions of this
Chapter to install any electrical appliances, wiring or fixtures without strict
compliance with the regulations relating to such fixtures; and it shall be
unlawful for any such person to do any such work without having obtained such
permits as may be required. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 11
COMMERCIAL LAUNDRIES AND DRY CLEANERS
SECTION:
3-11-1: Commercial Laundries
3-11-1-1: Definition
3-11-1-2: License Required, Exception
3-11-1-3: Application For License
3-11-1-4: Sanitary Conditions
3-11-1-5: Inspections
3-11-1-6: Coin-Operated Laundries
3-11-2: Commercial Dry Cleaners
3-11-2-1: Definition
3-11-2-2: License Required
3-11-2-3: Application For License
3-11-2-4: Frontage Consents Required
3-11-2-5: Fire Regulations
3-11-2-6: Coin-Operated Dry Cleaners
3-11-2-7: Enforcement
3-11-1: COMMERCIAL LAUNDRIES:
3-11-1-1: DEFINITION:
A "commercial laundry" is hereby defined as a commercial establishment wherein
clothing and household furnishings are laundered. (1987 Code)
3-11-1-2: LICENSE REQUIRED, EXCEPTION:
No person shall operate or conduct a laundry in the Village without having
first obtained a license therefor; provided, that establishments licensed as
dry-cleaning establishments need not obtain a laundry license in addition to
the dry- cleaning license. (1987 Code)
3-11-1-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE 1 :
Applications for such licenses shall be made in writing to the Village Clerk
and shall state thereon the location intended to be occupied. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See Section 3-1A-1 of this Title for license fees.
3-11-1-4: SANITARY CONDITIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Premises: Premises used for laundries must be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition. No refuse of any kind shall be permitted to accumulate on
such premises, and the premises must be kept free from rats, mice and vermin.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Employees: It shall be unlawful to employ any person afflicted with a
venereal or any contagious disease in a laundry. (1987 Code)
3-11-1-5: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief, or some other person designated by said
Chief, to inspect or cause to be inspected every establishment licensed under
this Section at least once every six (6) months. Any violations, under the
terms of this Section shall be reported to the Village President. (1987 Code)
3-11-1-6: COIN-OPERATED LAUNDRIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Attendant Required: During the hours of operation an adult attendant
shall be present at all coin-operated laundries.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Closing Hours: All automatic coin-operated laundries shall close at
eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M., and no automatic coin- operated laundry shall
remain open between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Compliance With Electrical Code Required: No license for the operation
of a coin-operated automatic laundry shall be issued unless the installation of
such coin-operated laundry machines complies with the provisions of the
electrical code of the Village 1 . (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  9-3-1 of this Code.
3-11-2: COMMERCIAL DRY CLEANERS:
3-11-2-1: DEFINITION:
A "commercial dry cleaner" is a commercial establishment wherein a process of
cleaning garments and textiles by use of chemical solvents instead of water is
conducted. (1987 Code)
3-11-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall operate or conduct a dry cleaning establishment within the
village without having first obtained a license. The use of perchloroethylene
(also known as PERC) is prohibited. (Ord. 2008-23, 7-21-2008)
3-11-2-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE 1 :
Applications for licenses shall be filed with the clerk and referred to the
fire chief for investigation and recommendation before a license shall be
issued. Applications shall also state if coal, oil, benzine, turpentine or
petroleum will be used at the location. (Ord. 2008-23, 7-21-2008)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See section 3-1A-1 of this title for license fees.
3-11-2-4: FRONTAGE CONSENTS REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to establish a dry cleaning establishment in any place
where a majority of the buildings within a radius of four hundred feet (400')
are used exclusively for residence purposes without having first secured the
written consent of the owners of a majority of the lots or parcels of ground
within such radius. (1987 Code)
3-11-2-5: FIRE REGULATIONS 2 :
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Buildings: No dry cleaning establishment shall be operated in a frame
building, nor in any building which does not comply with the provisions of this
code relating to the construction of buildings 3 .
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Inflammable Waste: Such establishment shall be kept as free as possible
from inflammable wastes.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Open Flames: It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit a stove or open
flame of any kind on the premises.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Smoking: Smoking in or on such premises is prohibited.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Storage And Handling Of Inflammable Liquids: The provisions of this
code relating to the storage or handling of inflammable liquids must be fully
complied with in every dry cleaning establishment. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
2 2. See also title 5, chapter 2 of this code.
3 3. See title 9 of this code.
3-11-2-6: COIN OPERATED DRY CLEANERS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Attendant Required: During the hours of operation, an adult attendant
shall be present at all coin operated dry cleaners.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Closing Hours: All automatic coin operated dry cleaning shops
heretofore established and hereafter to be established shall close at eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M., and no automatic coin operated dry cleaning shop shall
remain open between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Compliance With Electrical Code Required: No license for the operation
of an automatic coin operated dry cleaning establishment shall be issued unless
the installation of such machines complies with the provisions of the
electrical code of the village 1 . (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See section
  9-3-1 of this code.
3-11-2-7: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the village fire chief to see to the enforcement of the
provisions of this section
3-11-2. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 12
HOUSE MOVERS
SECTION:
3-12-1: Definition
3-12-2: License Required
3-12-3: Permit To Move Buildings Required
3-12-4: Bond
3-12-1: DEFINITION:
A "house mover" is hereby defined to be a business wherein buildings are moved
or raised. (1987 Code)
3-12-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to engage in the business of house mover or raiser in the
Village without having obtained a license therefor. (1987 Code)
3-12-3: PERMIT TO MOVE BUILDINGS REQUIRED:
Licensed house movers shall file with the Village Clerk application for, and
shall secure the necessary permits for moving any building on or over any
public street, sidewalk, alley or other public place. (1987 Code)
3-12-4: BOND:
Each licensed house mover may file an annual bond, conditioned to save the
Municipality harmless from any loss, damage or liability resulting from the
conduct of the business by the licensee, in the sum provided in Section
3-1-6 of this Title. If such bond is duly filed, it shall be unnecessary for
such licensee to file a bond for each individual house moved in the Village.
(1987 Code)
CHAPTER 13
MACHINE SHOPS
SECTION:
3-13-1: Machine Shop Defined
3-13-2: License Required
3-13-3: Sanitary Conditions
3-13-4: Hours Prohibited In Residential District
3-13-5: Inspection Of Premises
3-13-1: MACHINE SHOP DEFINED:
The term "machine shop" as used in this Chapter, shall include every workshop
in which machines are made or metal parts thereof are repaired, or where parts
of machines or tools, implements, gears, dies, screws or other metal articles
are cut, filed, shaped or repaired by means of a lathe or other machinery.
(1987 Code)
3-13-2: LICENSE REQUIRED 1 :
No person shall operate a machine shop within the Village without having first
obtained a license therefor; provided, that this Chapter shall not be construed
as requiring an additional license for any class of machine shops specifically
licensed under any other provision of the ordinances of the Village. (1987
Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See Section 3-1A-2 of this Title.
3-13-3: SANITARY CONDITIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Generally: No building, structure or part thereof used for or in
connection with any machine shop shall be so used as to endanger the health or
property of the employees or of the public.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Premises: The owner, occupant or manager of any machine shop shall
cause all floors and other surface around or beneath any machine or workbench
to be kept in good order and repair and shall have suitable, convenient and
sanitary receptacles for receiving waste and cloths used in and about the
machine shop for the purpose of cleaning machines or parts thereof or which are
intended for any other use.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Employees: No person suffering from any actively contagious or
infectious disease shall be employed in or about any machine where cutting
compound or fluid is used. All such cutting compound or fluid shall be kept
free from infectious or harmful matter. (1987 Code)
3-13-4: HOURS PROHIBITED IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
No machine shop shall be operated in the nighttime between the hours of eight
o'clock (8:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. in any place in which a
majority of the buildings within a radius of four hundred feet (400') are used
exclusively for residence purposes. (1987 Code)
3-13-5: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to make or cause to be made such
inspections as may be necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of
this Chapter. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 14
COIN-OPERATED CAR WASHES 1
SECTION:
3-14-1: Definition
3-14-2: License Required, Fee
3-14-3: Deposit To Water Department Required
3-14-4: Building And Premises
3-14-5: Attendant Required
Â 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 9-4-4F of this Code.
3-14-1: DEFINITION:
A "coin-operated car wash" is any business where motorized vehicles may be
washed upon deposit of coins in payment for use of the business's facilities.
(1987 Code)
3-14-2: LICENSE REQUIRED, FEE:
Any person engaging in the business of coin-operated car wash must first obtain
license from the Village Clerk. There shall be a business registration fee for
a coin-operated car wash as provided in Section
3-1A-2 of this Title which shall be paid before engaging in such business.
(1987 Code; amd. Ord. 93-2, 1-19-1993)
3-14-3: DEPOSIT TO WATER DEPARTMENT REQUIRED:
Any person making application for a coin-operated car wash business must
deposit fifty dollars ($50.00) for water and such deposit will be returned at
the termination of business. (1987 Code)
3-14-4: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Building Construction: Each building for a coin-operated car wash must
be completely constructed with face brick.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Lighting Required: Such building for coin-operated car washes must be
illuminated from dusk until dawn, interior and exterior.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Driveway Construction: All drives for coin-operated car washes must be
installed and constructed with blacktop or concrete. (1987 Code)
3-14-5: ATTENDANT REQUIRED:
There must be an adult attendant present at all times during business hours of
a coin-operated car wash. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 15
LUMBERYARDS
SECTION:
3-15-1: Definition
3-15-2: License Required
3-15-3: Frontage Consents Required
3-15-4: Fire Equipment Required
3-15-5: Piling Lumber Restricted
3-15-6: Inspections
3-15-1: DEFINITION:
A "lumberyard" is hereby defined as any buildings and/or grounds used for the
storage and sale of lumber and allied construction items. (1987 Code)
3-15-2: LICENSE REQUIRED 1 :
It shall be unlawful to do business as a lumber dealer maintaining a
lumberyard, or to operate or maintain a lumberyard in the Village without first
having secured a license therefor. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See Section 3-1A-1 of this Title for license fees.
3-15-3: FRONTAGE CONSENTS REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to establish any lumberyard anywhere where a majority of
the houses within a radius of three hundred feet (300') are used for residence
purposes without having secured the written consent of the owners of two-
thirds (2/3) of the lots or parcels of land within such radius. (1987 Code)
3-15-4: FIRE EQUIPMENT REQUIRED:
Every person owning or operating a lumberyard shall have the same equipped with
sufficient firefighting apparatus to handle any small fires which may start and
to prevent their spread. (1987 Code)
3-15-5: PILING LUMBER RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful to pile or stack any lumber in such a way that the lumber
overhangs or is in danger of falling onto any adjoining property or street,
alley or other public place. (1987 Code)
3-15-6: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to make or cause to be made such
inspections as may be necessary to see to the enforcement of the provisions of
this Chapter. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 16
REAL ESTATE BUSINESS
SECTION:
3-16-1: Definition
3-16-2: License Required
3-16-3: Fraudulent Practices; Issuance Restricted, License Revoked
3-16-1: DEFINITION:
A "real estate business" is a business in which a fee or commission is charged
for acting as an agent in making real estate contracts or sales. (1987 Code)
3-16-2: LICENSE REQUIRED 1 :
No person shall operate or conduct a real estate business without first being
licensed by the Village. Applications for business licenses shall be made in
writing to the Village Clerk, and no business license shall be issued to anyone
who has not obtained a certificate of registration as required by the laws of
this State. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See Section 3-1A-2 of this Title.
3-16-3: FRAUDULENT PRACTICES; ISSUANCE RESTRICTED, LICENSE REVOKED:
No license shall be issued to anyone who has been found guilty of fraudulent
practices in violation of the State statute in relation to real estate brokers.
Licenses may be revoked for such fraudulent practices. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 17
CHRISTMAS TREE SALES
SECTION:
3-17-1: License Required
3-17-2: Application For License
3-17-3: Smoking Prohibited
3-17-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the business of selling Christmas trees (evergreen
trees) without first having obtained a license therefor. (1987 Code)
3-17-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE 1 :
Applications for the license shall be made to the Village Clerk, in writing,
and shall state the name and address of the applicant, the description of the
place where business is to be conducted and the name and home address of the
proprietor, owner or person designated to manage such place of business. In
addition, the applicant shall set forth whether such business is to be
conducted on a vacant lot or within a building, structure, room or enclosure.
Every application for a license shall be approved by the Fire Chief as to the
compliance of the premises named therein with the fire regulations of the
Village 2  before a license is issued. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See Section 3-1A-2 of this Title.
2 2. See Title 5 of this Code.
3-17-3: SMOKING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit smoking in any building, room,
structure or enclosure where Christmas trees are being sold. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 18
DRAYMEN AND EXPRESSMEN
SECTION:
3-18-1: Definition
3-18-2: License Required
3-18-3: Application For License
3-18-4: Vehicles To Be Marked
3-18-1: DEFINITION:
A "drayman or expressman business" is any business utilizing vehicles for the
purpose of collecting and delivering packages and materials. (1987 Code)
3-18-2: LICENSE REQUIRED 1 :
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct the business of drayman, carter,
or expressman in the Village without having first obtained a license therefor.
(1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See Section 3-1A-2 of this Title.
3-18-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for such licenses shall be made to the Village Clerk and shall
designate thereon the name of the licensee, the location of his business, and
the number of vehicles intended to be used by him. (1987 Code)
3-18-4: VEHICLES TO BE MARKED:
Every vehicle used for such business shall have printed thereon in a place
easily visible from the side of the vehicle, the name and address of the owner
in letters legible to one of normal eyesight at a distance of twenty five feet
(25'). (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 19
UNDERTAKERS 1
SECTION:
3-19-1: License Required
3-19-2: Police To Be Notified
3-19-3: Exhibitions Prohibited
Â 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 4-2-1B and Title 4, Chapter 11 of this Code.
3-19-1: LICENSE REQUIRED 2 :
It shall be unlawful to maintain an undertaking establishment or to operate as
an undertaker or mortician in the Municipality without first having obtained a
license therefor. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
2 2. See Section 3-1A-1 of this Title for license fees.
3-19-2: POLICE TO BE NOTIFIED:
It shall be the duty of every undertaker to notify the police whenever a body
is brought to him or turned over to him for his services. (1987 Code)
3-19-3: EXHIBITIONS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any undertaker to permit his establishment to be used
for the exhibition of the body of any deceased person to the public, other than
friends and relatives of the deceased. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 20
MISCELLANEOUS BUSINESS PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-20-1: Cigarette, Cigar And Tobacco Sales
3-20-2: Junkyards Prohibited
3-20-3: Massage Establishments
3-20-4: Minimum Hourly Wages And Paid Sick Leave
3-20-1: CIGARETTE, CIGAR AND TOBACCO SALES:
See chapter 3-23 for comprehensive regulation of tobacco products. (Ord. 2002-
10, 7-15-2002; amd. Ord. 2019-21, 8-5-2019; Ord. 2025-3, 2-10-2025)
3-20-2: JUNKYARDS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to keep or store any junk, or to establish or maintain any
junkyard in the Village. (1987 Code)
3-20-3: MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS:
As used in this section, the following words are defined as follows:
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT: Any premises, place of business, or membership club,
where there is conducted the business or activity of furnishing, providing or
giving for a fee or other form of consideration, a massage, fomentation, bath,
manipulation of the body, electric or magnetic treatment, alcohol rub or other
similar massage service or procedure.
MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT - EXCEPTION: The words "massage establishment" and the
provisions of this section shall not apply to any duly licensed physician,
surgeon, osteopath, chiropractor or to other persons duly licensed by the State
of Illinois to treat, manipulate, operate upon, or prescribe for the person or
bodies of human beings and who are actually practicing said licensed profession
or to graduate nurses registered with the Department of Registration and
Education of the State of Illinois.
The operation of massage establishments in the Village is hereby prohibited.
Any person violating any provisions of this section shall be fined not less
than two hundred dollars ($200.00) and not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each offense and every day that such violation continues and
exists shall constitute a separate and distinct offense. (1987 Code)
3-20-4: MINIMUM HOURLY WAGES AND PAID SICK LEAVE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Employers located within the Village shall comply with all applicable
Federal and/or State laws and regulations as such laws and regulations may
exist from time to time with regard to both the payment of minimum hourly wages
and paid sick leave. Employee eligibility for paid sick leave and minimum
hourly wages shall also be in compliance with all applicable Federal and/or
State laws and regulations as such laws and regulations may exist from time to
time.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No additional obligations with regard to paid sick leave, or minimum
hourly wages, including, without limitation, any additional obligations by
ordinance adopted by the County of Cook Board of Commissioners, shall apply to
employers located within the Village, except those required by Federal and/or
State laws and regulations as such laws and regulations may exist from time to
time.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â For the purposes of this section, the term "employee" means an
individual permitted to work by an employer regardless of the number of persons
the employer employs, and the term "employer" means any person employing one or
more employees, or seeking to employ one or more employees, if the person has
its principal place of business within the Village or does business within the
Village.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â For the purposes of this section, the term "employer" does not mean:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The government of the United States or a corporation wholly owned by
the government of the United States;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A Native American tribe or a corporation wholly owned by a Native
American tribe;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The government of the State or any agency or department thereof; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The government of any municipality. (Ord. 2017-121, 6-5-2017)
CHAPTER 21
REGULATION OF FILM PRODUCTION
SECTION:
3-21-1: Definitions
3-21-2: Permit Required
3-21-3: Permit Exceptions
3-21-4: General Permit Application Requirements
3-21-5: Permit Application Form
3-21-6: Permit Application Documentation
3-21-7: Permit Application Approval Or Denial Process
3-21-8: Permit Issuance
3-21-9: Permit Conditions
3-21-10: Permit Violations, Revocation, And Penalties
3-21-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings and be construed in accordance with the definitions below:
BUILDING COMMISSIONER: The Building Commissioner for the Village of Broadview,
and his/her designee(s).
FILM PRODUCTION: Any and all activities relating to the process of recording
live action on film, magnetic tape, or any other medium for later commercial
sale, use, or distribution as a movie, advertising commercial, video, film, or
program, including the activities related to the mobilization, set-up,
operation, dismantling, or storage of film production equipment, and site
repair/restoration activities, as well as the gathering of persons related to
the film production.
FILM PRODUCTION EQUIPMENT: Any object used in film production, including but
not limited to, lighting and sound equipment, cameras, dressing rooms,
trailers, props, furnishings, and vehicles.
FILM PRODUCTION PERMIT: A permit issued in accordance with the procedures and
provisions herein.
PERMITTEE: The individual or entity to whom a film production permit has been
issued.
VILLAGE: The Village of Broadview, Cook County, Illinois, its employees,
agents, contractors, and designees.
VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR: The Village Administrator of the Village of Broadview,
Illinois, and his/her designee(s). (Ord. 2017-125, 8-7-2017)
3-21-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall engage in, participate in, or
initiate film production anywhere within the Village, including the interior or
exterior of public or private property, without first having obtained a film
production permit in accordance with the requirements set forth herein. (Ord.
2017-125, 8-7-2017)
3-21-3: PERMIT EXCEPTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No film production permit shall be required for:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The recording of news events or news features;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Film production intended solely for personal use such as private
events, weddings, reunions, and parties;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Film production conducted by, or on behalf of, the Village; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Non-commercial purposes.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The Building Commissioner shall have the authority and discretion to
waive or modify the permit requirements set forth herein. (Ord. 2017-125, 8-7-
2017)
3-21-4: GENERAL PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Minimum Processing Period: A complete permit application must be filed
with the Building Department at least ten (10) business days, excluding
holidays, prior to the proposed start of film production. No applications will
be accepted for processing that are received less than the required ten (10)
business days or that fail to include all attachments required by this section.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Information Required: No permit application shall be deemed complete
unless and until the following has been submitted:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Fifty dollar ($50.00) non-refundable application processing fee;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Signed and notarized Permit Application Form; and,
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â All permit application documentation required by section
3-21-6 of this chapter, including:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Certificate of Insurance.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Indemnification and Hold Harmless Agreement.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Neighbor Notification Certification.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Property Owner Approval Form. (Ord. 2017-125, 8-7-2017)
3-21-5: PERMIT APPLICATION FORM:
Applicants shall submit the following information on an Application Form to be
provided by the Village:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The name, addresses, and telephone numbers of the applicant, contact
person(s), and individual(s) responsible for the day to day operations of the
film production;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â A description and summary of the type of film to be produced;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The proposed dates and hours for film production;
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The proposed locations for film production, including staging and
storage locations;
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Identification of all public right-of-ways and public property for
which the applicant seeks to use, requests closures or partial closures, and,
for which the applicant seeks alterations of normal parking, vehicular, or
pedestrian traffic patterns;
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â A description of the methods and procedures to be used for food
service, emergency medical treatment, health and sanitation, and removal of
garbage and waste; and,
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Such other and further information as the Village may deem necessary to
evaluate the permit application. (Ord. 2017-125, 8-7-2017)
3-21-6: PERMIT APPLICATION DOCUMENTATION:
The following documentation must be submitted as attachments to the application
form:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Certificate Of Insurance: The applicant shall attach a certificate of
insurance, naming the Village as an additional insured, in the amount of five
million dollars ($5,000,000.00) general liability, including bodily injury and
property damage; and automobile liability (if applicable) in the amount of five
million dollars ($5,000,000.00) including bodily injury and property damage.
The Village, its Corporate Authorities, elected officials, officers, boards,
commission, attorneys, employees, and agents shall be designated as an
additional insured under the policy with respect to any and all claims which
arise out of, or are in any way related to, the film productions activities.
The certificate of insurance shall state whether there are any outstanding
claims against the policy and whether there are any policy exclusions which
would defeat or reduce the coverage amounts.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Indemnification And Hold Harmless Agreement: Applications for a film
production permit shall be accompanied by an indemnification and hold harmless
agreement (in a form acceptable to the Village) wherein the applicant agrees to
indemnify, defend and hold the Village, its officers, employees and agents
harmless from any loss, damage, expense, claim and cost of every nature and
kind whatsoever, including attorney's fees, arising out of, or in connection
with, the film production.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Certification Of Neighborhood Notice/Objections: Applications for a
film production permit shall be accompanied by a signed certification (in a
form acceptable to the Village) stating that written notice has been given to
all owners of record and/or occupants of all property situated within a five
hundred foot (500') radius of each separate proposed film production location.
The Village reserves the right to require a greater area of notification, if
warranted by the size or impact of the proposed film production. The
neighborhood notice shall contain a written description of the proposed film
production, including the proposed production schedule, type of film production
activities and film production equipment to be used, and requested street
closures and/or parking restrictions.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Notice To Those Entitled: Notice must be either hand delivered, or sent
by first class mail, with service being deemed as of the day the notice is
postmarked. Those owners or occupants entitled to notice under this subsection
shall have five (5) days from the date of service within which to submit to the
Village, in writing, any objections to the proposed film production.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Posting Of Notice: Notice shall also be posted on the public streets
where filming will occur to notify the residents and guests or visitors of the
Village that filming will be occurring in that area.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Property Owner Approval: To the extent any film production will take
place on property not owned by the applicant, the permit application shall be
accompanied by a signed statement of property owner approval (in a form
acceptable to the Village) indicating that the owner and/or lessee consent to,
and approve of, the use of their property for purposes of film production.
(Ord. 2017-125, 8-7-2017)
3-21-7: PERMIT APPLICATION APPROVAL OR DENIAL PROCESS:
The process for reviewing and approving or denying permit application under
this chapter (film permits), shall be as follows:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Review Of Applications: Each permit application shall be reviewed by
the Building Commissioner, as well as by the appropriate operational and
administrative departments within the Village, including but not limited to
Police, Fire, and Public Works.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Standards: Applications shall be evaluated in light of all facts and
circumstances surrounding the proposed film production including but not
limited to the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Impact film production will have on the use of public property
including right-of-ways and public buildings;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Impact on governmental functions and the provision of public
services;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Extent to which the film production would require additional Village
personnel and/or services and the cost of said services;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Potential health, safety, or traffic hazards that film production
may cause;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Nature and extent to which the personal and property rights of
Village residents and businesses are impacted; and,
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Objections received from those entitled to notice under section
3-21-6 of this chapter.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Permit Decisions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â By The Building Commissioner: Permit applications for film
production that will last five (5) days or less shall be evaluated by the
Building Commissioner, who shall have the discretion to either deny or grant
the permit, with or without additional conditions. If the Building Commissioner
determines that the circumstances of the proposed film production warrant
consideration by the Village Board, then the Building Commissioner may prepare
a report along with recommendations and refer the matter to the Village Board
for its decision.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â By The Village Board: Permit applications for which film production
will last more than five (5) days or, in cases that have been referred to the
Village Board by the Building Commissioner, the Village Board shall have the
discretion to either deny or grant the permit, with or without additional
conditions. (Ord. 2017-125, 8-7-2017)
3-21-8: PERMIT ISSUANCE:
Upon approval of the permit application, and prior to the issuance of the film
production permit, all permit fees, costs, and deposits shall be paid to the
Village.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Permit Fees:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Filming for five (5) days or less: Three hundred twenty five dollars
($325.00).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Filming for more than five (5) days: Five hundred fifty dollars
($550.00).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The Village Administrator shall have the discretion to waive the
permit fees for film production to be conducted by students or not-for-profit
organizations.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Costs For Use Of Village Personnel: Unless otherwise agreed to and
negotiated with the Village, applicant shall pay in full, before the initiation
of film production, the estimated costs of any police, fire, public works, or
other Village personnel to be used for the film production. Such costs shall
include cost of services specifically requested by the applicant and the cost
of services which, in the judgment of the Village, are needed as a result of
the film production. The costs billed for such direct Village labor shall be
equal to 1.5 times the hourly rate of pay for each individual Village employee
so assigned, including any applicable overtime, plus an administrative charge
of five dollars ($5.00) per hour. The Village reserves the right to assign
additional fire and/or police personnel to the film production or film
production location, where in the opinion of the Chief of Police or Fire Chief,
such protection is warranted by the nature of the film production. After
completion of film production site repair and restoration, the permittee shall
reimburse the Village for all costs incurred by the Village in excess of the
estimated cost for use of Village personnel. To the extent the actual costs
incurred by the Village are less than the estimated amounts paid, the Village
shall reimburse the permittee for any such amounts. No reimbursement shall be
made to the permittee, however, until the completion of all film production
site repair and restoration.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Cost Of Use Of Village Property: Applicant shall pay in full, before
film production, the costs for the use of all Village property and public
right-of-ways. The costs billed for such use shall be at the rates hereinafter
set forth, based on the extent of interference with or disruption to the normal
use and operation of Village property or public ways. The rates shall be as
follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Total closure of public streets or right-of-ways, including
sidewalks and parking: Seventy five dollars ($75.00) per hour per block.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Partial closure of public streets or right-of-ways: Fifty dollars
($50.00) per hour per block.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Use of all other Village property, including, but not limited to
real property, shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) per hour.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Deposit: Applicant shall deposit funds in escrow with the Village in
the amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) in order to secure the repair
and restoration of public property as required herein. Based upon the
circumstances of the film production and its potential impact upon public
property, the Village shall have the discretion to increase the amount of
deposit required under this chapter. The Village shall have the right to draw
against the escrowed funds in order to pay any portion of repair or restoration
costs not paid by the permittee within fourteen (14) days of the issuance of an
invoice for payment. (Ord. 2017-125, 8-7-2017; amd. Ord. 2019-16, 6-17-2019)
3-21-9: PERMIT CONDITIONS:
In addition to any conditions imposed pursuant to this chapter and by the
Building Commissioner or the Village Board, all permits issued under this
section are deemed to incorporate by reference and include the following
conditions:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Hours Of Film Production: Film production, including time for set-up
and restoration, shall occur only between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. Monday through Friday and from nine o'clock
(9:00) A.M. to six o'clock (6:00) P.M. Saturday, Sunday and holidays. Upon
request, the Building Commissioner shall have the authority and discretion to
allow film production to occur at times other than those stated herein.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Permit Expiration: Film production permits shall be valid only for the
time period stated in the permit. The Village shall have the discretion to
extend the time period upon written request with a showing of good cause. Any
such extension may be conditioned upon the satisfaction of the requirements
stated herein, including but not limited to additional neighborhood notice.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Restoration And Repair Of Property: Permittee shall restore any public
property used during film production to the condition it was in prior to the
initiation of film production. Permittee shall pay in full promptly upon
receipt of invoice, the cost of repair for any and all damage to public
property arising out of, or related to, the film production.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Emergency Access: Notwithstanding the approval of the closure of a
public right-of-way, emergency access through the right-of- way must be
maintained at all times. Permittee shall immediately comply with any order
deemed necessary by the Broadview Police Department for the protection of the
public health, safety, or welfare.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Inspection: The Village shall have the right, but not obligation, to
inspect all structures, devices and/or film production equipment to be used in
connection with the film production at reasonable times during film production.
(Ord. 2017-125, 8-7-2017)
3-21-10: PERMIT VIOLATIONS, REVOCATION, AND PENALTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Revocation Of Permit: Upon violation of any permit term or condition,
or upon violation of any other applicable Village ordinance or State law, any
permit issued pursuant to this section may be revoked by the Village. Such
revocation may be in addition to any citation issued or fine imposed for any
such violation.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â General Penalty: Any person who violates a provision of this section,
who makes a false statement in obtaining a permit under this section, or, who
violates a condition of any permit issued under this section shall be subject
to a fine of not less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00), but not more
than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Separate Offenses: Each act of violation and each day on which a
violation of this chapter has occurred shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2017-125, 8-7-2017)
CHAPTER 22
RETAIL CANNABIS TAX
SECTION:
3-22-1: Tax Imposed
3-22-2: Collection And Enforcement
3-22-3: Effective Date
3-22-1: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is hereby imposed, in accordance with the Municipal Cannabis Retailersâ€™
Occupation Tax Law, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-22, upon all persons
engaged in the business of selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased
under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act, at retail in the
corporate limits of the Village at the rate of three percent (3%) of the gross
receipts from these sales made in the course of that business. (Ord. 2019-29,
12-2-2019)
3-22-2: COLLECTION AND ENFORCEMENT:
The tax imposed by this chapter, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Illinois
Department of Revenue. The Department shall have full power to administer and
enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any tax required to be collected
pursuant to or as authorized by this chapter, and any such tax collected by
such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall constitute a
debt owed by the retailer to the State of Illinois. Retailers may reimburse
themselves for their sellerâ€™s tax liability hereunder by separate stating that
tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in a
single amount, with any state tax that sellers are required to collect, as
provided in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-22. (Ord. 2019-29, 12-2-2019)
3-22-3: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The tax provided for in this chapter shall take effect for sales on or after
the first day of January, 2020, or on or after such other date as provided for
by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-22 or other applicable enactment of
law. (Ord. 2019-29, 12-2-2019)
CHAPTER 23
COMPREHENSIVE REGULATION OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS1
SECTION:
3-23-1: Legislative Finding And Declaration
3-23-2: Definitions
3-23-3: License Required
3-23-4: License Application
3-23-5: Licence Fee; Classification Of Licenses; Limitation On Number Of
Licenses; Licenses Are Not Transferable
3-23-6: Prohibited Sales, Delivery; Signs
3-23-7: Minimum Age To Sell Tobacco Products
3-23-8: Purchase By Minors Prohibited
3-23-9: Possession By Minors
3-23-10: Proximity To Certain Institutions
3-23-11: Certain Free Distributions Prohibited
3-23-12: Sale Of Individual Cigarettes
3-23-13: Vending Machines; Locking Devices
3-23-14: Responsibility For Agents And Employees
3-23-15: Suspension; Revocation Of License; Fines, Costs
3-23-16: Use Of Premises After Revocation
3-23-17: Smoking Ban - Public Places; Smoke Free Illinois Act
3-23-99: Penalty
3-23-1: LEGISLATIVE FINDING AND DECLARATION:
The President and Board of Trustees expressly find and declare that:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Cigarette smoking is dangerous to human health; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â There exists substantial scientific evidence that the use of tobacco
products and alternative nicotine products cause cancer, heart disease and
various other medical disorders; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The Surgeon General of the United States has declared that nicotine
addiction from tobacco and alternative nicotine products is similar to
addiction to cocaine, and is the most widespread example of drug dependence in
this country; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The present legislative scheme of prohibiting sales of tobacco
products to persons under the age of twenty one (21) has proven ineffective in
preventing such persons from using tobacco products.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The enactment of this Chapter directly pertains to and is in
furtherance of the health, welfare and safety of the residents of the Village,
particularly those residents under twenty one (21) years of age. (Ord. 2025-3,
2-10-2025)
3-23-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
ACCESSORY TOBACCO SALES: A retail establishment in which the sale of other non-
tobacco-related and non-alternative-nicotine-related products is the primary
function.
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT: As defined in ILCS Ch. 720, Act 675, Â§ 1.5, a
product or device not consisting of or containing tobacco that provides for the
ingestion into the body of nicotine, whether by chewing, smoking, absorbing,
dissolving, inhaling, snorting, sniffing, or by other means. "ALTERNATIVE
NICOTINE PRODUCT" excludes cigarettes, smokeless tobacco, or other Tobacco
Products and any product approved by the United States Food and Drug
Administration as a non-tobacco product for sale as a tobacco cessation
product, as a tobacco dependence product, or for other medical purposes, and is
being marketed and sold solely for that approved purpose.
RETAIL STORE: A retail establishment, such as a grocery store, gas station,
convenience store, liquor store or similar retail establishment, in which the
sale of other non-tobacco-related and non-alternative-nicotine-related products
is the primary function.
TOBACCO PRODUCT:
Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Any product which contains, is made, or derived from tobacco or used to
deliver nicotine or other substances intended for human consumption, whether
smoked, heated, chewed, dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by
any other means, including, but not limited to, cigarettes, cigars, little
cigars, cheroots, stogies, periques, granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready
rubbed and other smoking tobacco, snuff, snuff flour, bidis, snus, mints, hand
gels, Cavendish, plug and twist tobacco, fine cut and other chewing tobaccos,
shorts, refuse scraps, clippings, cutting, and sweepings of tobacco;
Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Electronic smoking devices; and
Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Notwithstanding any provision of divisions 1 and 2 to the contrary,
"TOBACCO PRODUCT" includes any component, part, accessory, or associated
tobacco paraphernalia of a tobacco product whether or not sold separately.
Excluded from this definition is any product that contains marijuana and any
products specifically approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for use
in reducing, treating, or eliminating nicotine or tobacco dependence or for
other medical purposes when those products are being marketed and sold solely
for such approved purpose.
TOBACCO STORE: A retail establishment the primary function of which is the sale
of tobacco-related and/or alternative nicotine products, where the sale of
other products is merely incidental.
VENDING MACHINE: Any mechanical, electric or electronic, self service device
which, upon insertion of money, tokens or any other form of payment, dispenses
tobacco products. (Ord. 2025-3, 2-10-2025)
3-23-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any person as defined in Section
1-3-2 of this Code, to sell or offer for sale at retail, to give away, deliver
or to keep with the intention of selling at retail, giving away or delivering
tobacco products and/or alternative nicotine products within the Village
without first obtaining a tobacco dealer's license therefore pursuant to this
Chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Such license shall be in addition to any other license required by this
Code. (Ord. 2025-3, 2-10-2025)
3-23-4: LICENSE APPLICATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Application for a license hereunder shall be made in writing to the
Building Commissioner and shall be processed in accordance with the provisions
of Chapter 3 of this Code.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â If the applicant is an individual (sole proprietorship), the
application shall contain the applicant's name, residential address and
residential telephone number. If the applicant is a partnership or other non-
corporate business entity, the application shall contain the name and
residential address and residential telephone numbers of each partner,
principal or member thereof. If the applicant is a corporation, the application
shall contain the name of the corporation, corporate address and corporate
telephone number, as well as the name, residential address and residential
telephone number of each principal officer, and the registered agent thereof.
If the applicant is an unincorporated association, the application shall
contain the name, residential address and residential telephone number of the
spokesman, such as an officer or leader.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Each application shall also contain:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A designation of the type or kind of license desired;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The location or proposed location of the place of business,
occupation or activity;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The fee;
3-23-5;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The number of certificate of registration required under the
Retailer's Occupation Tax Act, Service Occupation Tax Act, and/or Use Tax Act,
if applicable; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Such additional information as may be needed for the proper guidance
of Village officials in the evaluation of such application, including a
statement of whether the application is for a new license or a license renewal
and whether the applicant has ever been subject to suspension or revocation of
a tobacco license in the Village. (Ord. 2025-3, 2-10-2025)
3-23-5: LICENCE FEE; CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES; LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF
LICENSES; LICENSES ARE NOT TRANSFERABLE:
The license fee for a tobacco dealer's license shall be as set forth in
3-1A-1.
Beginning on February 3, 2025, all licenses provided for under this Chapter
shall be classified as follows:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Class A-Retail Store/Accessory Tobacco Sales: Class A licenses shall
authorize the retail sales of tobacco and/or alternative nicotine products and
tobacco-related products in accordance with the definition of accessory tobacco
sales and retail store contained herein. The license is one hundred dollars
($100.00).
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Class B - Tobacco Store; Class B licenses shall authorize the operation
of a retail tobacco and/or alternative nicotine products store in accordance
with definition of a tobacco store contained herein. The license is one hundred
dollars ($100.00).
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â No more than eight (8) Class A tobacco licenses shall be issued and in
force at any one time. No more than two (2) Class B tobacco licenses shall be
issued and in force at any one time.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â When the licensee requests a change in location but all other business
attributes remain the same, the Building Department may transfer the current
active tobacco license to a new location, subject to meeting the provisions of
the Broadview Village Code.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â No License Shall Be Transferable: For Class A licenses, upon any such
license becoming forfeited, void or revoked for any reason, the number of
available licenses in that classification shall automatically and immediately
be reduced by one. (Ord. 2025-3, 2-10-2025)
3-23-6: PROHIBITED SALES, DELIVERY; SIGNS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any person, including any licensee, to sell,
offer for sale, give away or deliver tobacco products and/or alternative
nicotine products to any person under twenty one (21) years of age.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Signs informing the public of the age restrictions provided for herein
shall be posted by every licensee at or near every display of tobacco products
and/or alternative nicotine products and on or upon every vending machine which
offers tobacco products and/or alternative nicotine products for sale. Each
such sign shall be plainly visible and shall state:
"THE SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS TO
PERSONS UNDER TWENTY-ONE YEARS OF
AGE IS PROHIBITED BY LAW"
Â Â Â The text of such items shall be in red letters on a white background, said
letters to be at least one inch (1") high. (Ord. 2025-3, 2-10-2025)
3-23-7: MINIMUM AGE TO SELL TOBACCO PRODUCTS:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any officer, associate, member,
representative, agent or employee of such licensee, to engage, employ or permit
any person under eighteen (18) years of age to sell tobacco products and/or
alternative nicotine products in any licensed premises. (Ord. 2025-3, 2-10-
2025)
3-23-8: PURCHASE BY MINORS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person under twenty one (21) years of age to
purchase tobacco products and/or alternative nicotine products, or to
misrepresent their identity or age, or to use any false or altered
identification for the purpose of purchasing tobacco products. (Ord. 2025-3, 2-
10-2025)
3-23-9: POSSESSION BY MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any person under twenty one (21) years of age to
possess any tobacco products and/or alternative nicotine products; provided
that the possession by a person under twenty one (21) years of age under the
direct supervision of the parent or guardian of such person in the privacy of
the parent's or guardian's home shall not be prohibited. (Ord. 2025-3, 2-10-
2025)
3-23-10: PROXIMITY TO CERTAIN INSTITUTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, give away or
deliver tobacco products and/or alternative nicotine products within one
hundred feet (100') of any school, childcare facility or other building used
for education or recreational programs for persons under eighteen (18) years of
age. In the event there is any licensed business currently engaged in the sale
of tobacco products and/or alternative nicotine products within one hundred
feet (100') of any school, childcare facility or other building used for
education or recreational programs for persons under eighteen (18) years of age
at the time this Ordinance is passed, said business(es) will not be permitted
to expand their current range of products. Additionally, once said pre-existing
business(es) ceases operations, no sale of tobacco products and/or alternative
nicotine products will be permitted in said location(s). (Ord. 2025-3, 2-10-
2025)
3-23-11: CERTAIN FREE DISTRIBUTIONS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee or any person in the business of selling
or otherwise distributing, promoting or advertising tobacco products and/or
alternative nicotine products, or any employee or agent of any such licensee or
person, in the course of such licensee's or person's business, to distribute,
give away or deliver tobacco products and/or alternative nicotine products free
of charge to any person on any right-of-way, park, playground or other property
owned by the Village, any school district, any park district, and/or any public
library. (Ord. 2025-3, 2-10-2025)
3-23-12: SALE OF INDIVIDUAL CIGARETTES:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell or offer for sale, give away or
deliver quantities of cigarettes less than the standard pack of twenty (20)
cigarettes per package. The sale, gift or delivery ofloose or individual
cigarettes is prohibited. (Ord. 2025-3, 2-10-2025)
3-23-13: VENDING MACHINES; LOCKING DEVICES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any licensee to sell or offer for sale, give
away, deliver or to keep with the intention of selling tobacco products and/or
alternative nicotine products by use of a vending machine, unless such vending
machine is equipped with a manual, electric or electronic locking device
controlled by the licensee so as to prevent its operation by persons under the
age of twenty one (21) years.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Any premises where access by persons under the age of twenty one (21)
years is prohibited by law, or premises where the public is generally not
permitted and where vending machines are strictly for the use of employees of
business located at such premises, shall be exempt from the requirements of
division A of this section.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Except that vending machines delivering tobacco products and/or
alternative nicotine products currently in use in Village establishments shall
not be required to have locking devices installed if they are placed in a
conspicuous location at which they can be monitored by adult employees of the
establishment.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Each vending machine delivering tobacco products and/or alternative
nicotine products in use in the Village at the time of adoption of this Chapter
shall, however, be equipped with a manual, electric or electronic locking
device, as described herein, at such time as the machine is remodeled, upgraded
or substantially changed or altered. (Ord. 2025-3, 2-10-2025)
3-23-14: RESPONSIBILITY FOR AGENTS AND EMPLOYEES:
Every act or omission of whatsoever nature, constituting a violation of any of
the provisions of this Chapter by any officer, director, manager, or other
agent or employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of
such licensee; and such licensee shall be punishable in the same manner as if
such act or omission had been done or omitted by the licensee personally. (Ord.
2025-3, 2-10-2025)
3-23-15: SUSPENSION; REVOCATION OF LICENSE; FINES, COSTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The Building Commissioner or their assignee shall be charged with the
administration of this Chapter. The Building Commissioner or their assignee may
suspend or revoke any license issued under the provisions of this Chapter, if
he or she determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of
this Chapter. In lieu of suspension or revocation of a license, the Building
Commissioner or their assignee may instead levy a fine on the licensee. The
fine imposed shall not exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
violation. Each day on which a violation of this Chapter occurs shall
constitute a separate violation.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â However, no such license shall be suspended or revoked, nor shall any
licensee be fined except after a public hearing before the Building
Commissioner or their assignee with no less than a seven (7) day written notice
to the licensee affording the licensee an opportunity to appear and defend
against the charges contained in such notice. The seven (7) day notice
provisions shall begin the day following delivery by certified mail or by
personal service.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The Building Commissioner or their assignee shall within seven (7) days
after such hearing, if he or she determines after such hearing that the license
should be revoked or suspended, or that the licensee should be fined, state the
reason for such determination in a written order and either the amount of the
fine, the period of suspension or that the license has been revoked and sent a
copy of such order by certified mail or personal service within the seven (7)
days upon the licensee.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Any licensee determined by the Building Commissioner or their assignee
to have violated any of the provisions of this chapter shall pay to the Village
the costs of the hearing before the Building Commissioner or their assignee of
such violation. The Building Commissioner or their assignee shall determine the
costs incurred by the Village for said hearing, including, but not limited to:
court reporter's fees, the cost of transcripts or records, attorneys' fees, the
cost of preparing and mailing notices and orders, all other fines and fees
incurred by the licensee, and all other miscellaneous expenses incurred by the
Village or such lesser sum as the Building Commissioner or their assignee may
allow.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â The licensee shall pay said costs to the Village within thirty (30)
days of notification of the costs by the Building Commissioner or their
assignee. Failure to pay said costs within thirty (30) days of notification is
a violation of this Chapter and may be cause for license suspension or
revocation, or the levy of a fine. (Ord. 2025-3, 2-10-2025)
3-23-16: USE OF PREMISES AFTER REVOCATION:
When any license shall have been revoked for any cause, the licensee cannot
reapply for another license for the period of one (1) year thereafter for the
conduct of the business of selling tobacco products and alternative nicotine
products as defined in Section
3-23-2 in the premises described in such revoked license. (Ord. 2025-3, 2-10-
2025)
3-23-17: SMOKING BAN - PUBLIC PLACES; SMOKE FREE ILLINOIS ACT:
The Village hereby adopts and incorporates the provisions of the Smoke Free
lllinois Act, 410 ILCS 82/1 et seq., as amended. (Ord. 2025-3, 2-10-2025)
3-23-99: PENALTY:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any person violating
3-23-8 shall be fined an amount not to exceed seven hundred and fifty dollars
($750.00) for each violation and confiscation of the tobacco product and/or
alternative nicotine product.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Any person violating
3-23-9 shall be fined an amount not to exceed seven hundred and fifty dollars
($750.00) and confiscation of the tobacco product and/or alternative nicotine
product.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Any person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity violating
any provision of this Chapter for which another penalty is not already provided
shall be fined an amount not to exceed seven hundred and fifty dollars
($750.00).
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Each violation and each day on which a violation occurs shall be a
separate and distinct offense.
E.Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited by Section
3-23-17 shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by a fine not to exceed
seven hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00) for the first violation, one thousand
five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for the second violation and two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) for each subsequent violation.
Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A person who owns, manages, operates or otherwise controls a public
place and who fails to comply with the provisions of Section
3-23-17 shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by:
Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â A fine not exceeding seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for the
first violation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â A fine not more than one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00)
for the second violation within one year of the first violation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â A fine not more than two hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00) for
each additional violation within one year and a sixty (60) day suspension and
revocation of any permit or license issued to the person for the premises on
which the violation occurred at the discretion of the building commissioner.
Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Each day on which a violation of Section
3-23-17 occurs shall be considered a separate and distinct violation. (Ord.
2025-3, 2-10-2025)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
HEALTH DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
4-1-1: Department Created, Composition
4-1-2: Department Duties And Functions Generally
4-1-3: Health Officer
4-1-4: Village Sanitarian
4-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED, COMPOSITION:
There is hereby created a Health Department, an executive department of the
Village. The Health Department shall consist of the Health Officer who shall be
the head of the Department, and such other officers and employees as may be
assigned to it. (1987 Code)
4-1-2: DEPARTMENT DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS GENERALLY:
It shall be the function of the Health Department, and the duty of every
officer and employee assigned thereto, to see to the enforcement of all
ordinances and Code provisions relating to the care and handling of food and
drink, the care of contagious diseases and vaccinations, nuisances dangerous to
public health and such other matters as may be assigned to it or may properly
come within its jurisdiction. (1987 Code)
4-1-3: HEALTH OFFICER:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Office Created: There is hereby created the office of Health Officer,
an executive office of the Village.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Appointment: The Health Officer shall be appointed by the President and
Board of Trustees.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Powers And Duties Generally: The Health Officer shall be the head of
the Health Department and shall be responsible for the efficient conduct of its
affairs. All officers and employees assigned to this Department shall obey all
orders and instructions given by the Health Officer. (1987 Code)
4-1-4: VILLAGE SANITARIAN:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Position Created: There is hereby created the position of Village
Sanitarian.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Appointment: The Village Sanitarian shall be appointed by the President
and Board of Trustees.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Powers And Duties: The Village Sanitarian is charged with the duty of
enforcing all provisions of this Code and statutes of the State pertaining to
the public health. In the accomplishment of his duties, he shall have the power
to inspect premises at reasonable hours, to take samples of foodstuffs and
materials for testing, and to issue such orders as may be necessary for and
conducive to the public health. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL HEALTH PROVISIONS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Birth And Death Records
4-2-2: Heat Control
4-2-3: Mosquito Control
4-2-4: Clean Air Provisions
4-2-1: BIRTH AND DEATH RECORDS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Births: It shall be the duty of every physician or other person in
attendance at any birth within the village to make a report thereof to the
county clerk. Said report shall contain all the information required by statute
1 .
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Deaths 2 :
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Report Required: A report of every death occurring in the village
must be made by the physician in attendance, or the funeral director, to the
coroner or the coroner's physician, or the person who first assumes custody of
the dead body. This report must contain all the information required by the
state 3 .
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Death Certificate, Burial Permit 4 : It shall be unlawful to inter
or cremate any person within the village, or to transport any dead human body
from the village for the purpose of cremation or burial unless a death
certificate is first filed and a burial permit issued. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 410 ILCS 535/1 et seq.
2 2. See title 3, chapter 19 of this code.
3 3. 410 ILCS 535/18 â€“ 535/21.
4 4. See chapter 11 of this title.
4-2-2: HEAT CONTROL:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Apartment Houses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Minimum Temperature Permitted: It shall be the duty of every person
owning or controlling any apartment house, in which the heat is furnished from
a heating plant used in common for the purpose of heating the various rooms and
apartments therein and such heating plant is under the control or supervision
of such owner or person in control of such building, to furnish heat to such
rooms and apartments from October 1 of each year to May 1 of the succeeding
year, so that occupants thereof may secure, without such undue restriction of
ventilation as to interfere with proper sanitary conditions, a minimum
temperature of sixty five degrees Fahrenheit (65Â°F) at six thirty o'clock (6:
30) A.M. and sixty eight degrees Fahrenheit (68Â°F) at seven thirty o'clock (7:
30) P.M. and thereafter until six thirty o'clock (6:30) A.M., averaged
throughout the apartment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Procedure Upon Complaint: Written notice of complaint concerning
lack of heat in such room or apartment shall first be given to the office of
the building commissioner before any person shall be deemed to have violated
this subsection. For the purpose of determining whether or not the temperature
in any such room or apartment is in accordance with the provisions of this
subsection, temperature readings shall be made only by an inspector of the
office of the building commissioner by means of a standard Fahrenheit
thermometer approved by said office in no less than two (2) separate rooms in
such apartment, or if the apartment consists of only one room, then in two (2)
opposite parts of the room as near the extremes as practicable, such
thermometer to be placed at a point three feet (3') from all exterior walls of
any such room or apartment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Violation: Failure to furnish the heat required under the terms of
this subsection shall not constitute an offense where it is due to a breakdown
of the heating plant, if diligence is used to have such plant repaired, unless
such breakdown has been caused by the violation of an ordinance relating to the
operation of heating plants, or where it is due to strike, to general shortage
of fuel, to any act of the tenant who makes the complaint, or to any cause
beyond the owner's control, or unless written notice of such failure to furnish
the heat hereby required shall first have been given to the owner or agent of
the building by registered mail by the office of the building commissioner, and
the temperature readings herein provided for shall not be made until after the
delivery of written notice to said office.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Factories And Workshops: It shall be the duty of every person owning or
controlling the heating plant which furnishes heat to any factory or workshop
to maintain a temperature within such factory or workshop of not less than
sixty eight degrees Fahrenheit (68Â°F) without such undue restrictions of
ventilation as to interfere with proper sanitary conditions therein; provided,
however, that this requirement shall not apply to any factory or workshop where
the business conducted therein is of such a nature that a higher or lower
temperature than sixty eight degrees Fahrenheit (68Â°F) is necessary or
expedient for the work, trade, occupation or manufacturing processes of the
business so conducted therein; and provided further, that in all such cases
where such higher or lower temperature is necessary or expedient, the moisture
content of the air shall be increased where the temperature is maintained above
sixty eight degrees Fahrenheit (68Â°F) in the proper amount to maintain a wet
bulb temperature between fifty four degrees Fahrenheit (54Â°F) and fifty eight
degrees Fahrenheit (58Â°F). In the case of special manufacturing processes where
it is necessary or expedient to maintain a wet bulb temperature below or above
the extremes herein set forth, the office of the building commissioner shall
prescribe and enforce such reasonable precautions and safeguards as will meet
the requirements of such special manufacturing processes without endangering
the health of the occupants of such factory or workshops. The manner of
determining the temperature in all cases where the temperature to be maintained
is sixty eight degrees Fahrenheit (68Â°F) shall be the same as in this
subsection, and in all other cases shall be in such practical manner as the
office of the building commissioner shall determine. (1987 Code)
4-2-3: MOSQUITO CONTROL:
Every person within the village shall comply with the rules and regulations of
the Des Plaines mosquito abatement district. (1987 Code)
4-2-4: CLEAN AIR PROVISIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Definitions In This Section:
Â Â Â  BAR: An establishment that is devoted to the serving of alcoholic beverages
for consumption by guests on the premises and that derives no more than ten
percent (10%) of its gross revenue from the sale of food consumed on the
premises. "Bar" includes, but is not limited to, taverns, nightclubs, cocktail
lounges, adult entertainment facilities, and cabarets.
Â Â Â EMPLOYEE: A person who is employed by an employer in consideration for
direct or indirect monetary wages or profits or a person who volunteers his or
her services for a nonprofit entity.
Â Â Â EMPLOYER: A person, business, partnership, association, or corporation,
including a municipal corporation, trust, or nonprofit entity, that employs the
services of one or more individual persons.
Â Â Â ENCLOSED AREA: All space between a floor and a ceiling that is enclosed or
partially enclosed with: 1) solid walls or windows, exclusive of doorways, or
2) solid walls with partitions and no windows, exclusive of doorways, that
extend from the floor to the ceiling, including, without limitation, lobbies
and corridors.
Â Â Â ENCLOSED OR PARTIALLY ENCLOSED SPORTS ARENA: Any sports pavilion, stadium,
gymnasium, health spa, boxing arena, swimming pool, roller rink, ice rink,
bowling alley, or other similar place where members of the general public
assemble to engage in physical exercise or participate in athletic competitions
or recreational activities or to witness sports, cultural, recreational, or
other events.
Â Â Â GAMING EQUIPMENT OR SUPPLIES: Gaming equipment/supplies as defined in the
Illinois gaming board rules of the Illinois administrative code.
Â Â Â GAMING FACILITY: An establishment utilized primarily for the purposes of
gaming and where gaming equipment or supplies are operated for the purposes of
accruing business revenue.
Â Â Â HEALTHCARE FACILITY: An office or institution providing care or treatment of
diseases, whether physical, mental, or emotional, or other medical,
physiological, or psychological conditions, including, but not limited to,
hospitals, rehabilitation hospitals, weight control clinics, nursing homes,
homes for the aging or chronically ill, laboratories, and offices of surgeons,
chiropractors, physical therapists, physicians, dentists, and all specialists
within these professions. "Healthcare facility" includes all waiting rooms,
hallways, private rooms, semiprivate rooms, and wards within healthcare
facilities.
Â Â Â PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT: Any area under the control of a public or private
employer that employees are required to enter, leave, or pass through during
the course of employment, including, but not limited to, entrances and exits to
places of employment, including a minimum distance, as set forth in subsection
H of this section, of fifteen feet (15') from entrances, exits, windows that
open, and ventilation intakes that serve an enclosed area where smoking is
prohibited; offices and work areas; restrooms; conference rooms and classrooms;
break rooms and cafeterias; and other common areas. A private residence or home
based business, unless used to provide licensed childcare, foster care, adult
care, or other similar social service care on the premises, is not a "place of
employment".
Â Â Â PRIVATE CLUB: A not for profit association that: 1) has been in active and
continuous existence since at least January 1, 2005, whether incorporated or
not, 2) is the owner, lessee, or occupant of a building or portion thereof used
exclusively for club purposes at all times, 3) is operated solely for a
recreational, fraternal, social, patriotic, political, benevolent, or athletic
purpose, but not for pecuniary gain, and 4) only sells alcoholic beverages
incidental to its operation. For purposes of this definition, "private club"
means an organization that is managed by a board of directors, executive
committee, or similar body chosen by the members at an annual meeting, has
established bylaws, a constitution, or both to govern its activities, and has
been granted an exemption from the payment of federal income tax as a club
under 26 USC 501.
Â Â Â PRIVATE RESIDENCE: The part of a structure used as a dwelling, including,
without limitation: a private home, townhouse, condominium, apartment, mobile
home, vacation home, cabin, or cottage. For the purposes of this definition, a
hotel, motel, inn, resort, lodge, bed and breakfast or other similar public
accommodation, hospital, nursing home, or assisted living facility shall not be
considered a private residence.
Â Â Â PUBLIC PLACE: That portion of any building or vehicle used by and open to
the public, regardless of whether the building or vehicle is owned in whole or
in part by private persons or entities, the state of Illinois, or any other
public entity and regardless of whether a fee is charged for admission,
including a minimum distance, as set forth in subsection H of this section, of
fifteen feet (15') from entrances, exits, windows that open, and ventilation
intakes that serve an enclosed area where smoking is prohibited. A "public
place" does not include a private residence unless the private residence is
used to provide licensed childcare, foster care, or other similar social
service care on the premises. A "public place" includes, but is not limited to,
hospitals, restaurants, retail stores, offices, commercial establishments,
elevators, indoor theaters, libraries, museums, concert halls, public
conveyances, educational facilities, nursing homes, auditoriums, enclosed or
partially enclosed sports arenas, meeting rooms, schools, exhibition halls,
convention facilities, polling places, private clubs, gaming facilities, all
government owned vehicles and facilities, healthcare facilities or clinics,
enclosed shopping centers, retail service establishments, financial
institutions, educational facilities, ticket areas, public hearing facilities,
public restrooms, waiting areas, lobbies, bars, taverns, bowling alleys,
skating rinks, reception areas, and no less than seventy five percent (75%) of
the sleeping quarters within a hotel, motel, resort, inn, lodge, bed and
breakfast, or other similar public accommodation that are rented to guests, but
excludes private residences.
Â Â Â RESTAURANT: 1. An eating establishment, including, but not limited to,
coffee shops, cafeterias, sandwich stands, and private and public school
cafeterias, that gives or offers for sale food to the public, guests, or
employees, and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A kitchen or catering facility in which food is prepared on the
premises for serving elsewhere. "Restaurant" includes a bar area within the
restaurant.
Â Â Â RETAIL TOBACCO STORE: A retail establishment that derives more than eighty
percent (80%) of its gross revenue from the sale of loose tobacco, plants, or
herbs and cigars, cigarettes, pipes, and other smoking devices for burning
tobacco and related smoking accessories and in which the sale of other products
is merely incidental. "Retail tobacco store" does not include a tobacco
department or section of a larger commercial establishment or any establishment
with any type of liquor, food, or restaurant license.
Â Â Â SMOKE OR SMOKING: The carrying, smoking, burning, inhaling, or exhaling of
any kind of lighted pipe, cigar, cigarette, hookah, weed, herbs, or any other
lighted smoking equipment.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Smoking In Public Places, Places Of Employment, And Governmental
Vehicles Prohibited: No person shall smoke in a public place or in any place of
employment or within fifteen feet (15') of any entrance to a public place or
place of employment. No person may smoke in any vehicle owned, leased, or
operated by the state or a political subdivision of the state. Smoking is
prohibited in indoor public places and workplaces unless specifically exempted
in subsection E of this section.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Posting Of Signs; Removal Of Ashtrays:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â "No Smoking" signs or the international "no smoking" symbol,
consisting of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a
red circle with a red bar across it, shall be clearly and conspicuously posted
in each public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited by
this section by the owner, operator, manager, or other person in control of
that place.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Each public place and place of employment where smoking is
prohibited by this section shall have posted at every entrance a conspicuous
sign clearly stating that smoking is prohibited.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â All ashtrays shall be removed from any area where smoking is
prohibited by this section by the owner, operator, manager, or other person
having control of the area.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Designation Of Other Nonsmoking Areas: Notwithstanding any other
provision of this section, any employer, owner, occupant, lessee, operator,
manager, or other person in control of any public place or place of employment
may designate a nonenclosed area of a public place or place of employment,
including outdoor areas, as an area where smoking is also prohibited provided
that such employer, owner, lessee or occupant shall conspicuously post signs
prohibiting smoking in the manner described in subsections C1 and C2 of this
section.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Exemptions: Notwithstanding any other provision of this section,
smoking is allowed in the following areas:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Private residences or dwelling places, except when used as a
childcare, adult daycare, or healthcare facility or any other home based
business open to the public.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Retail tobacco stores as defined in subsection A of this section in
operation prior to January 1, 2008. The retail tobacco store shall annually
file with the department of public health by January 31 an affidavit stating
the percentage of its gross income during the prior calendar year that was
derived from the sale of loose tobacco, plants, or herbs and cigars,
cigarettes, pipes, or other smoking devices for smoking tobacco and related
smoking accessories. Any retail tobacco store that begins operation after
January 1, 2008, may only qualify for an exemption if located in a freestanding
structure occupied solely by the business and smoke from the business does not
migrate into an enclosed area where smoking is prohibited.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Private and semiprivate rooms in nursing homes and long term care
facilities that are occupied by one or more persons, all of whom are smokers
and have requested in writing to be placed or to remain in a room where smoking
is permitted and the smoke shall not infiltrate other areas of the nursing
home.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Hotel and motel sleeping rooms that are rented to guests and are
designated as smoking rooms, provided that all smoking rooms on the same floor
must be contiguous and smoke from these rooms must not infiltrate into
nonsmoking rooms or other areas where smoking is prohibited. Not more than
twenty five percent (25%) of the rooms rented to guests in a hotel or motel may
be designated as rooms where smoking is allowed. The status of rooms as smoking
or nonsmoking may not be changed, except to permanently add additional
nonsmoking rooms.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Enforcement: Proceedings to enforce violations of this section may be
initiated and conducted in accordance with and pursuant to the provisions of
the code hearing department as stated in title 1, chapter 13 of this code or by
any other means provided by law.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Violations:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, partnership,
association or other entity to fail to comply with this section. Each day that
a violation occurs is a separate violation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited shall be
fined in an amount that is not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and not
more than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). A person who owns, operates, or
otherwise controls a public place or place of employment that violates this
section shall be fined: a) not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
for the first violation, b) not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for
the second violation within one year after the first violation, and c) seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each additional violation within one year
after the first violation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A person who owns, operates or otherwise controls a public place or
place of employment who otherwise commits four (4) or more violations of this
section in any twelve (12) month period may also have their business license or
liquor license suspended or revoked.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Entrances, Exits, Windows, And Ventilation Intakes: Smoking is
prohibited within a minimum distance of fifteen feet (15') from entrances,
exits, windows that open, and ventilation intakes that serve an enclosed area
where smoking is prohibited under this section so as to ensure that tobacco
smoke does not enter the area through entrances, exits, open windows, or other
means.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Nonretaliation: No person or employer shall discharge, refuse to hire
or in any manner retaliate against any employee, applicant for employment or
customer because that employer, applicant or customer reports a violation of
this section. (Ord. 2008-02, 2-4-2008)
CHAPTER 3
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Nuisances Enumerated
4-3-2: Abatement By Village
4-3-3: Penalty
4-3-1: NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or maintain, or permit the
existence of any nuisance on property under his control. The following are
hereby declared nuisances and it shall be unlawful:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Acts Detrimental To Public Health: To commit or do any act which
endangers or injures the public health or results in annoyance or discomfort
harmful to the public health.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Polluting Water: For any person to obstruct or pollute any watercourse
or water supply in the Village.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Stagnant Pools: For any person to permit any stagnant pool of water to
remain or exist on property under his control.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Unhealthful And Dangerous Premises 1 : To permit any building,
structure or place to be or remain in a condition in any way dangerous to the
public health.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Dense Or Noxious Smoke: To permit the emission of gas or dense smoke
within the Village from the smokestack or chimney of any building, premises
locomotive, stationary engine, steam roller, tar kettle or other source, except
for a period of six (6) minutes, whether consecutive or not, within any hour of
the day or night, during which the firebox is being cleaned out or new fire
being built therein. Such nuisance may be summarily abated by anyone duly
authorized for such purpose, and such abatement is provided in addition to the
fine imposed by Section
1-4-1 of this Code.
The term "dense smoke" as used in this subsection is hereby defined to mean
smoke having a density as great as or greater than that represented by card
number two (2) of the standard known as the Ringelmann Smoke Chart, which chart
is on file in the office of the Village Clerk. (1987 Code)
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Vermin And Rodents 1 : (Rep. by Ord. 89-6, 6-5-1989)
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Water Closets: To occupy or use any house in the Village as a residence
unless such house is equipped with a water closet or other proper and adequate
facilities for the disposal of human excrement.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Noxious Businesses 2 : To establish or maintain anywhere within the
Village or within one mile thereof, any glue factory, oil refining plant or
place or establishment for the reclaiming, refining or rerefining of petroleum
or any derivative thereof, any dumping ground for the dumping or disposal of
garbage or refuse 3 , or any other establishment or business which causes,
creates or emits noxious fumes or offensive odors. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9, Chapter 6 of this Code.
1 1. See Article A of this Chapter.
2 2. See Chapter 7 of this Title.
3 3. See Chapter 5 of this Title.
4-3-2: ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE:
The Chief of Police and the Village Health Officer are hereby authorized to
abate any nuisance existing in the Village, whether such nuisance is one
specifically defined as such by ordinance or not. (1987 Code)
4-3-3: PENALTY:
In addition to the remedies provided for in this Chapter, the following
penalties may be incurred for violation of this Chapter:
Any person accused of violating any section of this Chapter shall first be
issued a written warning to correct the violation within seven (7) days of the
date of the warning.
If upon reinspection, the violation is corrected, no further action will be
taken. If, upon reinspection the violation still exists, the Health Inspector
or Building Inspector shall issue a notice of Code violation requiring a court
appearance by the violator in thirty (30) days.
Any person may settle or compromise the violation by paying the Village the sum
of twenty dollars ($20.00) and showing proof of correction of the purported
violation within seven (7) days after the date of the notice, or by paying to
the Village the sum of thirty dollars ($30.00) and showing proof of correction
of the purported violation after said seven (7) day period and prior to the
court date set forth in the notice of violation.
In the event the purported violation is not so corrected, settled or
compromised, then any person upon being found guilty of a violation of this
Code, shall be subject to a fine not to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00).
Each day that a violation continues, after due notice as provided herein, shall
be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 87-16, 10-19-1987)
ARTICLE A. RODENT CONTROL
SECTION:
4-3A-1: Harborage Of Rats Declared To Be A Nuisance
4-3A-2: Prohibited Acts
4-3A-3: Notice
4-3A-4: Failure To Comply
4-3A-5: Abatement By Village
4-3A-1: HARBORAGE OF RATS DECLARED TO BE A NUISANCE:
The harborage of rats, rodents or other vermin is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and injurious to the public health, safety and welfare.
It shall therefore be unlawful for any person to allow conditions on property
under his control to exist which will allow rats, rodents or vermin to nest,
seek shelter or feed. (Ord. 89-6, 6-5-1989)
4-3A-2: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be unlawful to allow the following acts or conditions on the property
which will create a harborage for rodents, rats and vermin:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The storage of lumber or other building materials, except when
construction is in progress on the property;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The storage of fixtures, appliances, furniture, scrap materials, old
tires and automotive parts;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The storage of logs or firewood on the ground or in racks less than
eighteen inches (18") above grade level;
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The accumulation of dog droppings; rubbish or debris such as papers,
cartons, and brush; or the improper storage of garbage, compost or rotting
fruit from trees;
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â The storage of an abandoned or inoperable vehicle or boat;
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â The deterioration of an auxiliary structure, concrete slab or other
structure. (Ord. 89-6, 6-5-1989)
4-3A-3: NOTICE:
The Building Commissioner shall notify the owner and any other person occupying
the property that a condition exists on the property which allows an unlawful
harborage for rats, rodents or other vermin. Said notice shall be by certified
mail, return receipt requested.
The owner or other person occupying the property shall have ten (10) days after
receipt of said notice within which to correct the unlawful condition or
otherwise abate the nuisance. (Ord. 89-6, 6-5-1989)
4-3A-4: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
In the event the owner or any other person occupying the property fails to
comply with the notice within the time specified herein, the owner or other
person shall be subject to a fine of thirty dollars ($30.00) per day for each
day violation of this Article exists. (Ord. 89-6, 6-5-1989)
4-3A-5: ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE:
In the event the owner or any person occupying the property fails to comply
with the notice within the time specified, the Village, pursuant to 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-8, shall abate the condition complained of and
provide for the extermination of the rats, rodents or other vermin. The cost
and expense of said abatement and extermination shall be a lien upon the
property as provided by said statutes. (Ord. 89-6, 6-5-1989)
ARTICLE B. EMERGENCY NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-3B-1: Nuisance Defined
4-3B-2: Prohibited
4-3B-3: Emergency Nuisances Declared
4-3B-4: Notice To Abate
4-3B-5: Content Of Notice
4-3B-6: Service Of Notice
4-3B-7: Abatement By Village
4-3B-8: Villageâ€™s Costs Declared A Lien
4-3B-9: Penalties
4-3B-1: NUISANCE DEFINED:
"Nuisance" is hereby defined as any person engaging in an unlawful act,
omitting to perform a duty required under local, state or federal law, or
suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, where the act,
omission, condition or thing either:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Injures or endangers the comfort, peace, health or safety of others;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Offends decency;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Is offensive to the senses;
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous for passage any public or private street, highway, sidewalk, stream,
ditch, or drainage;
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â In any way interferes with other persons use of property; or
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others. (Ord.
2020-15, 4-6-2020)
4-3B-2: PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, permit, maintain, or allow the
creation or maintenance of a nuisance. (Ord. 2020-15, 4-6-2020)
4-3B-3: EMERGENCY NUISANCES DECLARED:
Maintaining, using, placing, dumping, leaving, or permitting to be or remain on
any public or private property any of the following items, conditions, or
actions is hereby declared to be and constitutes an emergency nuisance.
However, this enumeration is solely for illustrative purposes and shall not be
deemed to be exhaustive, limiting or restrictive. For the purposed of this
article, emergency nuisances include, as qualified above, the following:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Noxious weeds and other pungent vegetation;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Accumulation of rubbish, refuse, junk, and other abandoned materials;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Any condition which provides harborage for rats, mice, snakes and other
vermin;
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Any building or other structure which is in such a dilapidated
condition as to make it unfit for human habitation, or which is kept in such an
unsanitary condition that it endangers the health of people residing in the
vicinity thereof, or presents an extraordinarily dangerous fire hazard in the
vicinity where it is located;
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â All unnecessary or unauthorized noises and vibrations, including animal
noises;
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â All unpleasant or obnoxious odors and stenches, as well as the
conditions, substances, or other causes which give rise to the emission or
generation of such odors and stenches;
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Animal or fowl carcasses not disposed of within a reasonable time after
the death of such animal or fowl;
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â The pollution of any public well or reservoir, stream, lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, dead animals, creamery, industrial wastes or other
substances;
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Any building, structure or other place or location where any activity
which is in violation of local, state or federal law is conducted, performed or
maintained;
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Any accumulation of stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot
or piece of ground; or
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot, or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities. (Ord. 2020-15, 4-6-2020)
4-3B-4: NOTICE TO ABATE:
Whenever a nuisance is found to exist within the Village, the Building
Commissioner or Director of Economic Development, Chief of Police or other
authorized officer of the Village shall cause written notice to be given to the
owner or occupant of the property upon which such nuisance exists or upon the
person causing or maintaining the nuisance. (Ord. 2020-15, 4-6-2020)
4-3B-5: CONTENT OF NOTICE:
The notice to abate a nuisance issued under the provision of this article shall
contain:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â An order to abate the nuisance;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The location of the nuisance, if the same is stationary;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â A description of what constitutes the nuisance;
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â A statement of acts necessary to abate the nuisance; and
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â A statement that if the nuisance is not abated within two (2) calendar
days of the date on which the notice is served, the Village will abate such
nuisance and assess the cost therefore against such person. (Ord. 2020-15, 4-6-
2020)
4-3B-6: SERVICE OF NOTICE:
The notice to abate a nuisance shall be served as any other legal process may
be served pursuant to law. (Ord. 2020-15, 4-6-2020)
4-3B-7: ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE:
Upon the failure of the person upon whom notice to abate a nuisance was served
pursuant to this article to abate the same, the Village shall proceed to abate
such nuisance and shall prepare a statement of costs incurred in the abatement
thereof. (Ord. 2020-15, 4-6-2020)
4-3B-8: VILLAGEâ€™S COSTS DECLARED A LIEN:
Any and all costs incurred by the Village in the abatement of a nuisance under
this article shall constitute a lien against the property upon which such
nuisance existed, which lien shall be filed, proven and collected as provided
by law. Such lien shall be notice to all persons from the time of its
recording, and shall bear interest at the legal rate thereafter until
satisfied. (Ord. 2020-15, 4-6-2020)
4-3B-9: PENALTIES:
Any person or corporation who fails to comply with the provision of this
article shall, upon conviction thereof be fined a sum not more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. Each day a violation of this
article shall continue shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 2020-15, 4-6-
2020)
CHAPTER 4
WEEDS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Nuisance Greenery, Penalty
4-4-2: Height Restriction
4-4-3: Abatement By Village
4-4-1: NUISANCE GREENERY, PENALTY:
Any weeds, grass, trees, bushes, or other such plants or greenery of like kind
found growing on any lot, block, tract or parcel of land situated along any
street or avenue in the Village or in the space between the curb line and the
sidewalk line of any street, alley or avenue in front of any such lot, block,
tract or parcel of land in the Village are hereby declared to be a nuisance and
any owner, occupant or agent of any such lot, block, tract or parcel of land
who shall allow such nuisances to exist shall be subject to a penalty as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1987 Code; amd. Ord. 2019-14, 6-3-2019)
4-4-2: HEIGHT RESTRICTION:
All weeds, grass and other plant growth, other than ornamental shrubbery or
trees and flowers, on premises abutting on any public street, alley or sidewalk
in the Village shall be kept trimmed by the owner or occupant of the premises
to a height of not to exceed ten inches (10") from the ground. Any such growth
which is in excess of this height shall be considered and is hereby declared to
be a nuisance. (1987 Code)
4-4-3: ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â In all cases arising under this Chapter where the owner, occupant or
agent of any lot, tract or parcel of land shall neglect or refuse to abate such
nuisance, after reasonable notice, within the time and in the manner specified,
the Building Commissioner or Director of Economic Development, by the Chief of
Police or other police officer of the Village, shall cause the abatement of
such nuisance and the owner, occupant or agent shall be charged with expenses
which may be incurred by the Village in the removal or abatement thereof, which
expenses shall be collected by the Village by suit or otherwise in addition to
a fine or penalty.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â For purposes of this section:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â â€œAbatementâ€ or â€œremovalâ€ means the cutting of weeds or grass, the
trimming of trees or bushes, and the removal of nuisance bushes or trees.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â â€œExpensesâ€ means the total cost of the abatement or removal
activity. (1987 Code; amd. Ord. 2019-14, 6-3-2019)
CHAPTER 5
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-5-1: Compliance With Provisions
4-5-2: Definitions
4-5-3: Collection By Village; Residential Units
4-5-3-1: Collection By Village; Multi-Family Residential Structures Of Four
Units Or More
4-5-3-2: Collection By Village; Public Receptacles
4-5-3-3: Collection By Village; Collection Fees
4-5-3-4: Collection By Village; Special Pick Ups
4-5-4: Storage And Removal From Businesses
4-5-5: Scavengers, Catch Basin Cleaners
4-5-5-1: Village May Contract For Service
4-5-5-2: License Required, Fee
4-5-5-3: Application For License, Bond
4-5-5-4: Investigation, Inspection
4-5-5-5: Conditions Of License
4-5-6: Prohibited Acts
4-5-7: Fly Dumping Prohibited
4-5-8: Penalty
4-5-1: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
Compliance with this chapter will be required under the public health and
safety regulations of the village. (1987 Code)
4-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
INITIAL VILLAGE PICK UP DATE; MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES OF FOUR UNITS
OR MORE: The first date that the village begins to collect waste following the
expiration, avoidance or cancellation of a prior contract, for multi- family
residential structures of four (4) units or more, governing the disposal of
waste. For the purpose of this definition, "current contract" shall mean the
contract in effect on the date of the passage hereof. No multi-family
residential unit owner shall extend or allow the extension of any such contract
by any means including, but not limited to, renewal, automatic renewal or
option so as to delay the initial village pick up from multi-family residential
structures of four (4) units or more.
LANDSCAPE WASTE OR YARD WASTE: All accumulations of grass or shrubbery
cuttings, leaves, tree limbs, and other material accumulated as the result of
the care of lawns, shrubbery, vines and trees.
LIGHT RUBBISH: Any inorganic refuse, paper or other items not consisting of
recyclables or yard waste.
MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES OF FOUR UNITS OR MORE: All condominiums,
apartments and other multi-family development which contain four (4) units or
more.
MUNICIPAL WASTE OR GARBAGE: All garbage, refuse, industrial lunchroom or office
waste, and other material resulting from the operation of residential,
municipal or multi-family establishments and from community activities which
are not defined as recyclable or landscape waste.
RECYCLABLES: Aluminum cans, metal cans, bimetal cans, glass containers, plastic
milk bottles, other plastic containers, chipboard, cardboard, glossy paper and
newsprint/junk mail.
RESIDENTIAL UNITS: All single-family homes, two-family development and multi-
family development up to, and including, three (3) units in size, including
townhomes, duplexes, and two-flats. (Ord. 11-13, 5-16-2011)
4-5-3: COLLECTION BY VILLAGE; RESIDENTIAL UNITS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Residential Units:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Solid Waste Containers: Residential units shall be responsible to
utilize village approved sixty five (65) gallon solid waste containers for the
disposal of municipal waste within the village.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Additional Waste: If the residential unit has additional waste,
which exceeds the maximum capacity of the sixty five (65) gallon solid waste
container, they may place their own thirty five (35) gallon containers out for
collection provided that the residential unit attaches an additional solid
waste sticker to said garbage receptacle.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Containers: The containers for residential unit village waste or
garbage refuse shall be:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Of durable plastic material;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Of waterproof construction;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Equipped with a watertight fitting cover and with handles
suitable for mobility by one person;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Of a capacity of no more than sixty five (65) gallons.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Landscape Waste: Residential unit landscape waste shall be placed in
disposable paper bags no smaller than twenty (20) gallons and no larger than
thirty two (32) gallons, and must be used for grass clippings, leaves, weeds
and garden waste materials approved by the village.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Bulky Landscape Waste: Residential unit landscape waste too bulky
for disposal into paper bags, including brush and other branches (3 inches or
less in diameter) must be securely tied into bundles not exceeding four feet
(4') in length and sixty (60) pounds in weight.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Recyclable Materials: Residential unit recyclable materials shall be
placed in village approved sixty five (65) gallon solid waste recycling
containers. Additional materials, which do not fit into the designated
recycling containers, may be placed directly adjacent to the filled container.
However, junk mail, magazines, and glossy paper must be put in paper bags.
Chipboard may be put in paper bags or bundled and tied with string or twine
(except nylon or other synthetic materials).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Placement Of Containers: Residential unit garbage and trash
containers shall be placed at the edge of the alley or on the parkway between
the hours of six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of the day preceding collection until
seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. of the day of collection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Containers Complying With Specifications: Only containers complying
with the above specifications for garbage and municipal refuse, landscape waste
and recyclable materials respectively may be utilized.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Receptacle Capacity: Residential units shall not exceed the maximum
capacity of any waste container within the village. Lids on the sixty five (65)
gallon receptacle must close fully to form a watertight seal. No refuse may
protrude above the rim of the receptacle. Residents must utilize an additional
waste container and attach an additional solid waste sticker to said garbage
receptacle as specified in subsection A2 of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â Location Of Containers: All containers for garbage, ashes and
household rubbish shall be stored outside the residence or other building in an
accessible place and at ground level on the owner's private property. No
container used for the storage, collection and removal of garbage or other
refuse shall be placed in a thoroughfare or in a manner which constitutes a
nuisance to adjacent property or the occupants thereof or to the public in
general. (Ord. 11-13, 5-16-2011)
4-5-3-1: COLLECTION BY VILLAGE; MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES OF FOUR
UNITS OR MORE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Multi-Family Residential Structures Of Four Units Or More:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Containers For Waste Disposal: Multi-family residential structures
of four (4) units or more shall be responsible to utilize village approved
containers for the disposal of municipal waste within the village.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Containers: The containers for multi-family residential structures
of four (4) units or more municipal waste or garbage refuse shall be:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Of durable material;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Of waterproof construction;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Equipped with a cover and with an approved means of collection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Landscape Waste: Multi-family residential structures of four (4)
units or more must arrange for the removal and disposal of its own landscape
waste and shall not be part of the village landscape program.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Landscape Waste Prior To Removal: Multi-family residential
structures of four (4) units or more landscape waste must be kept orderly and
contained prior to removal.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Recyclable Materials: Multi-family residential structures of four
(4) units or more must arrange for the removal of its own recyclable materials
and shall not be part of the village recyclable program. However, if a multi-
family residential structure of four (4) units or more decides to institute a
recyclable program the contractor providing such a program shall ensure that
recyclable material be placed in sixty five (65) gallon solid waste recycling
containers substantially similar to the village approved containers used for
residential units. Additional materials, which do not fit into the designated
recycling containers, may be placed directly adjacent to the filled container.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Containers Complying With Specifications: Only containers complying
with the above specifications for garbage and municipal waste, landscape waste
and recyclable materials respectively may be utilized.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Container Capacity: The container for each multi-family residential
structure of four (4) units or more shall be properly sized to meet the
municipal waste and garbage needs for each particular multi-family residential
structure of four (4) units or more. Lids on the container must close fully. No
refuse may protrude above the rim of the receptacle. If the refuse is
protruding above the rim of the container, the owner or manager of the multi-
family residential structure of four (4) units or more shall be obligated to
contact the vendor contracted to collect the municipal waste in the village.
The owner of the multi-family residential structures of four (4) units or more
shall also ensure that such garbage is orderly and contained until such time as
the garbage vendor completes the pick up.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Location Of Containers: All containers for garbage, ashes and
household rubbish shall be stored outside of the multi- family residential
structures of four (4) units or more or other building in an accessible place
and at ground level on the private property of the multi-family residential
structures of four (4) units or more. No container used for the storage,
collection and removal of garbage or other refuse shall be placed in a
thoroughfare or in a manner which constitutes a nuisance to adjacent property
or the occupants thereof or to the public in general.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Initial Village Pick Up Date: Initial village pick up date for
multi-family residential structures of four (4) units or more shall occur
within sixty (60) days of the passage of this chapter. No resident shall extend
or allow the extension of any existing contract for the collection of waste, by
any means including, but not limited to, renewal, automatic renewal or option
so as to delay the initial village pick up date from multi-family residential
structures of four (4) units or more. All existing contracts for the removal of
waste from multi-family residential structures of four (4) units or more shall
be terminated and/or canceled within sixty (60) days of the passage of this
chapter. (Ord. 11-13, 5-16-2011)
4-5-3-2: COLLECTION BY VILLAGE; PUBLIC RECEPTACLES:
Village waste containers provided for public use in commercial areas shall be
supplied by the village, not exceeding thirty two (32) gallons in capacity and
of wire mesh or enclosed material as approved by the village. (Ord. 11-13, 5-
16-2011)
4-5-3-3: COLLECTION BY VILLAGE; COLLECTION FEES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Collection Fees:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The village board shall establish a schedule of fees, charges and
expenses for the collection of waste and recyclables, stickers for excess
containers of waste, stickers for landscape or yard waste, and penalties for
failure to comply with these provisions.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The approved schedule of fees shall be filed and posted in the
office of the village hall, and may be altered or amended by the village board
from time to time.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â For the purpose of defraying the cost of collecting containers of
garbage and recyclables from either the parkway or the alley of residences
within the village, a charge per month for residential units municipal waste
disposal shall be levied against each single-family dwelling, and for each
household unit in a multiple-family dwelling containing three (3) units or
fewer. The charges shall be totaled and added to the monthly water bill and the
resulting total bill shall be paid as a unit and shall not be divisible. The
ten percent (10%) penalty provided in subsection 8-4-6A of this code also
applies to the portion of the bill designated as a collection fee for garbage.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â For the purpose of defraying the cost of collecting any container of
garbage in excess of the one 65-gallon solid waste container and one 65-gallon
solid waste recycling containers covered in the monthly bill, a resident shall
purchase a solid waste tag from the village and attach it to each container in
order for the container to be collected. The charge for each solid waste tag
shall be posted in the village hall and may be altered or amended by the
village board from time to time.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â For the purpose of defraying the cost of collecting landscape waste
or yard waste, a residential unit shall purchase landscape or yard waste tags
from the village and attach one to each bag or bundle to be collected. The
charge for each tag shall be posted in the village hall and may be altered or
amended by the village board from time to time.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â For the purpose of defraying the cost of collecting containers of
garbage from either the parkway or the alley and in the alleys within the
village for multi-family residential structures of four (4) units or more
municipal waste disposal, a charge per month shall be levied against each
multi-family residential structure of four (4) units or more. The charges shall
be billed separately to each unit in the unit's monthly water bill. The ten
percent (10%) penalty provided in subsection 8-4-6A of this code also applies
to the portion of the bill designated as a collection fee for garbage. (Ord.
11-13, 5-16-2011)
4-5-3-4: COLLECTION BY VILLAGE; SPECIAL PICK UPS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Special Pick Ups For Residential Units: One item per week consisting of
miscellaneous waste and bulk items such as discarded furniture, household
appliances (white goods), water tanks (capable of being handled by 1 person),
and trash items not exceeding ninety (90) pounds in weight shall be picked up
at no charge upon prior arrangement between the resident and the garbage
collection contractor. Other special pick ups for additional items or items not
so designated above shall be provided upon terms agreed to between the resident
and the garbage collection contractor.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Special Pick Ups For Multi-Family Residential Structures Of Four Units
Or More: There are unlimited pick ups under the multi-family residential
structures of four (4) units or more disposal program. The owner, manager, and
tenants of the multi-family residential structure of four (4) units or more
shall be obligated to call the garbage vendor when additional pick ups are
necessary. (Ord. 11-13, 5-16-2011)
4-5-4: STORAGE AND REMOVAL FROM BUSINESSES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Nonresidential Buildings: Every person or entity occupying, operating
or controlling any building or portion thereof where persons do not reside,
board or lodge, shall provide a separate container for garbage which shall be
plainly marked in a conspicuous place "Not For Domestic Use". Such person or
entity shall have the contents of the container removed from the premises at
his own expense at such time and in such manner as the health department may
direct. In the buildings described herein, garbage containers of the kind in
domestic use are prohibited.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Hotels And Restaurants: Every person or entity owning or controlling
any hotel, restaurant, cafe or other premises where more than twenty (20)
guests or boarders are fed daily, shall cause all garbage to be placed in a
proper metallic container which shall be practically airtight and watertight
and shall cause all substances deposited in such containers to be removed from
the premises as frequently as the health department shall direct. The removal
and disposition of such substances shall be done by such person or entity at
his or its own expense. (Ord. 11-13, 5-16-2011)
4-5-5: SCAVENGERS, CATCH BASIN CLEANERS:
4-5-5-1: VILLAGE MAY CONTRACT FOR SERVICE:
The village may contract with private scavengers for the collection of garbage,
ashes and rubbish. (1987 Code)
4-5-5-2: LICENSE REQUIRED, FEE:
No person may operate as a waste disposal firm or scavenger for hire, or
otherwise shall remove waste from any premises in the village; or transport
waste through the streets, alleys or public ways for the village; or dump,
incinerate, or in any other manner dispose of waste originating in the limits
of the village; or contract for, or permit himself to be employed or engaged
for any such removal, transportation or disposal, without first having secured
a license for performing such waste disposal service or scavenger service from
the village clerk, evidencing the payment to the village of the license fee
provided in section
3-1A-1 of this code. No more than one business license shall be available for
municipal waste, recycling waste and landscape waste removal for residential
units of three (3) units or less. No more than one business license shall be
available for municipal waste removal for multi-family residential structures
of four (4) units or more. This limitation on licenses shall not apply to roll-
off dumpsters for purposes of construction, remodeling, concrete, and other
refuse needs of the community not mentioned herein. (Ord. 11-13, 5-16-2011)
4-5-5-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE, BOND:
Each application shall be accompanied by a bond in the sum as provided in
section
3-1-6 of this code, conditioned on compliance with this code. (1987 Code)
4-5-5-4: INVESTIGATION, INSPECTION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Investigation Of Applicant: Upon the receipt of any application for a
license, the health officer shall investigate the character of the applicant.
No license shall be issued to any person who is not a person of good character.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Inspection Of Vehicle: The health officer shall inspect or cause to be
inspected all vehicles intended to be used by the applicant and shall not
approve the issuance of a license unless these vehicles comply with the
provisions of this code. (1987 Code)
4-5-5-5: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Sanitary Vehicles: All vehicles used for waste disposal or scavenger
service must be kept in a sanitary condition. The wagon box must be waterproof,
and each vehicle must be equipped with tight covers.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Obey Traffic Regulations 1 : All persons doing business as scavengers
or catch basin cleaners in the village must fully comply with all ordinances
relating to traffic or to the movement of vehicles on the streets.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Waste Deposits On Premises: Care must be taken when removing any
garbage or offal that no waste material is permitted to fall or remain on any
premises.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Employees: It is unlawful to employ any person as a driver on any
vehicle or as helper therefor who is not a person of good character. (1987
Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See title 7 of this code.
4-5-6: PROHIBITED ACTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Collection Without Permit: To collect and dispose of refuse for hire
over the streets of the village without a permit is declared to be a nuisance.
Such business shall be carried on under the conditions of this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Refuse Accumulation:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Private Property: The owner of any premises in the village shall
remove from the premises or otherwise dispose of all garbage, ashes, tin cans,
metalware, broken glass, crockery, stoneware and all refuse and rubbish of
every description whatsoever. Any loose accumulation of such refuse is
prohibited.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Public Ways: No person shall leave or suffer to be left, any refuse
in or upon any street, alley, parkway or other public place or upon any vacant
or unimproved lot or parcel of land in the village. (1987 Code)
4-5-7: FLY DUMPING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person who is not a resident of the village or who
does not own, operate or maintain a business in the village to deposit, leave
or dump any garbage, yard waste or other debris in, on or upon any public
alley, street or other publicly owned property in the village.
It shall be unlawful for any person who is not a resident of the village or who
does not own, operate or maintain a business in the village to deposit, leave
or dump any garbage, yard waste or other debris in, on or upon any vacant lot
or privately owned property in the village.
It shall be unlawful for any person who is a resident of the village or who
owns, operates or maintains a business in the village to deposit, leave or dump
any garbage, yard waste or other debris in or upon any public alley, street or
other publicly owned property in the village, except in such areas adjacent to
property owned or occupied by said person and then only at the times and in the
receptacles as authorized by the village. (Ord. 90-8, 9-4-1990)
4-5-8: PENALTY:
Any owner or occupant of the premises accused of violating any provision of
this chapter regarding garbage and rubbish storage and removal as contained in
this chapter shall be issued a written warning to correct the violation within
a specified number of days of the date of the warning, or shall be issued a
notice of code violation requiring a court appearance by the violator in thirty
(30) days. Issuance of a warning or a notice of code violation is entirely
within the discretion of the health inspector, building inspector, public works
director or their designee(s).
Any violation is subject to the penalty provisions contained in title 1,
chapter 4, "General Penalty", of this code, with each day of a continuing
violation constituting a separate offense. (Ord. 11-13, 5-16-2011)
CHAPTER 6
FOOD AND FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Applicability
4-6-2: Codes
4-6-3: Compliance Procedures - General
4-6-4: Issuance Of Permit, License Or Certificate
4-6-5: Suspension Of Permit, License Or Certificate
4-6-6: Revocation Of Permit, License Or Certificate
4-6-7: Service Of Notices
4-6-8: Hearings
4-6-9: Application After Revocation
4-6-10: Inspection Frequency
4-6-11: Access
4-6-12: Report Of Inspections
4-6-13: Correction Of Violations
4-6-14: Examination And Condemnation Of Food
4-6-15: Submission Of Plans
4-6-16: Preoperational Inspection
4-6-17: Procedure When Infection Is Suspected
4-6-18: Reinspection Costs
4-6-19: Conditional Permit, License Or Certificate
4-6-20: Penalties
4-6-21: Injunctions
4-6-22: Automatic Food Vending Machines
4-6-23: Mobile Food Vendors
4-6-1: APPLICABILITY:
The issuance, suspension, and revocation of permits, licenses, or certificates
to operate retail food establishments; the prohibiting of the sale of unsound
or mislabeled food or drink; and the enforcement of this chapter shall be
regulated in accordance with section
4-6-3 of this chapter concerning the compliance procedures. (Ord. 97-8, 10-6-
1997)
4-6-2: CODES:
The inspection of food service establishments shall be regulated in accordance
with the 1993 and all subsequent editions of, or amendments to, the Illinois
Department of Public Health's publication currently titled, "Food Service
Sanitation Code", that are on file with the Secretary of State. The inspection
of retail food stores shall be regulated in accordance with the 1992 and all
subsequent editions of, or amendments to, the Illinois Department of Public
Health's publication currently titled, "Retail Food Store Sanitation Code",
that are on file with the Secretary of State.
Three (3) copies of each of the Illinois Department of Public Health's
publications currently titled, "Food Service Sanitation Code", and "Retail Food
Store Sanitation Code", shall be on file at the Village Clerk's Office. (Ord.
97-8, 10-6-1997)
4-6-3: COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES - GENERAL:
No person shall operate a food establishment who does not have a valid permit,
license, or certificate issued to them by the Village. Only a person who
complies with the requirements of this chapter shall be entitled to receive or
retain such a permit, license, or certificate. Permits, licenses, or
certificates are not transferable. A valid permit, license or certificate shall
be posted in every food establishment. (Ord. 97-8, 10-6-1997)
4-6-4: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT, LICENSE OR CERTIFICATE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any person desiring to operate a food establishment shall make written
application for a permit, license, or certificate on forms provided by the
Village.
Such application shall include the name and address of each applicant, the
location and type of the proposed food establishment, and the signature of each
applicant.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Prior to approval of an application for a permit, license, or
certificate, the Village and the Cook County Department of Public Health shall
inspect the proposed food establishment to determine compliance with the
requirements of this chapter.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The Village shall issue a permit, license, or certificate to the
applicant if its inspection reveals that the proposed food establishment
complies with the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 97-8, 10-6-1997)
4-6-5: SUSPENSION OF PERMIT, LICENSE OR CERTIFICATE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The Village may, without warning, notice, or hearing suspend any
permit, license, or certificate to operate a food establishment if the holder
of the permit, license, or certificate does not comply with the requirements of
this Chapter, or if the operation of the establishment does not comply with the
requirements of this Chapter, or if the operation of the food establishment
otherwise constitutes a substantial hazard to public health.
Suspension is effective upon service of the notice required by subsection B of
this Section. When a permit, license, or certificate is suspended, food
operations shall immediately cease. Whenever a permit, license, or certificate
is suspended, the holder of the permit, license, or certificate shall be
afforded an opportunity for hearing within twenty (20) days of receipt of a
request for hearing.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Whenever a permit, license, or certificate is suspended, the holder of
the permit, license, or certificate, or the person in charge shall be notified
in writing that the permit, license, or certificate is, upon service of the
notice, immediately suspended and that an opportunity for hearing will be
provided if a written request for hearing is filed with the Village by the
holder of the permit, license, or certificate within ten (10) days. If no
written request for hearing is filed within ten (10) days, the suspension is
sustained. The Village may end the suspension at any time if reasons for
suspension no longer exist. (Ord. 97-8, 10-6-1997)
4-6-6: REVOCATION OF PERMIT, LICENSE OR CERTIFICATE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The Village may, after providing opportunity for hearing, revoke the
permit, license, or certificate for serious or repeated violations of any of
the requirements of this Chapter or for the interference with the Village or
the Cook County Department of Public Health in the performance of duty.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Prior to revocation, the Village shall notify, in writing, the holder
of the permit, license, or certificate, or the person in charge, of the
specific reason(s) for which the permit, license, or certificate is to be
revoked and that the permit, license, or certificate shall be revoked at the
end of the ten (10) days following service of such notice unless a written
request for hearing is filed with the Village by the holder of the permit,
license, or certificate within such ten (10) day period. If no request for
hearing is filed within the ten (10) day period, the revocation of the permit,
license or certificate becomes final. (Ord. 97-8, 10-6-1997)
4-6-7: SERVICE OF NOTICES:
A notice provided for in this Chapter is properly served when it is delivered
to the holder of the permit, license, or certificate, or the person in charge,
or when it is sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested,
to the last known address of the holder of the permit, license, or certificate.
A copy of the notice shall be filed in the records of the Village. (Ord. 97-8,
10-6-1997)
4-6-8: HEARINGS:
The hearings provided for in this Chapter shall be conducted by the Village at
a time and place designated by it. Any oral testimony given at a hearing shall
be reported verbatim, and the presiding officer shall make provision for
sufficient copies of the transcript. The Village shall make a final finding
based upon the complete hearing record and shall sustain, modify or rescind any
notice or order considered in the hearing. A written report of the hearing
decision shall be furnished to the holder of the permit, license, or
certificate by the Village. (Ord. 97-8, 10-6-1997)
4-6-9: APPLICATION AFTER REVOCATION:
Whenever a revocation of a permit, license, or certificate has become final,
the holder of the revoked permit, license, or certificate may make written
application for a new permit, license or certificate. (Ord. 97-8, 10-6-1997)
4-6-10: INSPECTION FREQUENCY:
An inspection of a food establishment shall be performed at a frequency
prescribed by the Village.
Additional inspections of the food establishment shall be performed as often as
necessary for the enforcement of this Chapter. (Ord. 97-8, 10-6-1997)
4-6-11: ACCESS:
Duly authorized representatives of the Village or the Cook County Department of
Public Health, after proper identification, shall be permitted to enter any
food establishment at any reasonable time for the purpose of making inspections
to determine compliance with this Chapter. The representatives shall be
permitted to examine the records of the establishment to obtain information
pertaining to food and supplies purchased, received, or used. (Ord. 97-8, 10-6-
1997)
4-6-12: REPORT OF INSPECTIONS:
Whenever an inspection of a food establishment is made, the findings shall be
recorded on the inspection report form on file and available at the Village
office. The inspection report form shall summarize the requirements of this
Chapter and shall set forth a weighted point value for each requirement.
Inspectional remarks should be written to reference, by item number, the item
violated and should state the correction to be made. The rating score of the
establishment shall be the total of the weighted point values for all
violations, subtracted from one hundred (100). A copy of the completed
inspection report form shall be furnished to the person in charge of the
establishment at the conclusion of the inspection. The completed inspection
report form is a public document that shall be made available for public
disclosure to any person who requests it according to law. (Ord. 97-8, 10-6-
1997)
4-6-13: CORRECTION OF VIOLATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The completed inspection report form shall specify a reasonable period
of time for the correction of the violations found; and correction of the
violations shall be accomplished within the period specified, in accordance
with the following provisions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â If an imminent health hazard exists, such as complete lack of
refrigeration or sewage backup into the establishment, the establishment shall
immediately cease food operations. Operations shall not be resumed until
authorized by the Cook County Department of Public Health.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â All violations of four (4) or five (5) point weighted items shall be
corrected as soon as possible, but in any event, within ten (10) days following
inspection. A follow-up inspection to confirm correction may be conducted at
the discretion of the Cook County Department of Public Health.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â All one or two (2) point weighted items shall be corrected as soon
as possible, but in any event, by the time of the next routine inspection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â When the rating score of the establishment is less than sixty (60),
the establishment shall initiate corrective action on all identified violations
within forty eight (48) hours. One or more reinspections may be conducted at
reasonable time intervals to assure correction.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â In the case of temporary food establishments, all violations shall
be corrected within twenty four (24) hours. If violations are not corrected
within twenty four (24) hours, the establishment shall immediately cease food
operations until authorized to resume by the Cook County Department of Public
Health.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The inspection report shall state that failure to comply with any time
limits for corrections may result in cessation of food operations. An
opportunity for hearing on the inspection findings or the time limitations or
both will be provided if a written request is filed with the Village within ten
(10) days following cessation of operations. If a request for hearing is
received, a hearing shall be held within twenty (20) days of receipt of the
request.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Whenever a food establishment is required under the provisions of this
Section to cease operations, it shall not resume operations until it is shown
on reinspection that conditions responsible for the order to cease operations
no longer exist. Opportunity for reinspection shall be offered within a
reasonable time. (Ord. 97-8, 10-6-1997)
4-6-14: EXAMINATION AND CONDEMNATION OF FOOD:
Food may be examined or sampled by the Cook County Department of Public Health
as often as necessary for enforcement of this Chapter. The Cook County
Department of Public Health may, upon written notice to the owner or person in
charge, specifying with particularity the reasons therefor, place a hold order
on any food which it believes is in violation of sections 750.100, 750.110,
760.100, or 760.110 of the Illinois Department of Public Health's "Food Service
Sanitation Code", or the "Retail Food Store Sanitation Code", respectively, or
any other section of this Chapter. The Cook County Department of Public Health
shall tag, label, or otherwise identify any food subject to the hold order. No
food subject to a hold order shall be used, served, or moved from the
establishment. The Cook County Department of Public Health shall permit storage
of the food under conditions specified in the hold order, unless storage is not
possible without risk to the public health, in which case immediate destruction
shall be ordered and accomplished. The hold order shall state that a request
for hearing may be filed within ten (10) days and that if no hearing is
requested the food shall be destroyed. If a request for hearing is received,
the hearing shall be held within twenty (20) days after receipt of the request.
On the basis of evidence produced at that hearing, the hold order may be
vacated, or the owner or person in charge of the food may be directed by
written order to denature or destroy such food or to bring it into compliance
with the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 97-8, 10-6-1997)
4-6-15: SUBMISSION OF PLANS:
Whenever a food establishment is constructed or extensively remodeled and
whenever an existing structure is converted to use as a food establishment,
properly prepared plans and specifications for such construction, remodeling,
or conversion shall be submitted to the Village and the Cook County Department
of Public Health for review and approval before construction, remodeling, or
conversion is begun. The plans and specifications shall indicate the proposed
layout, arrangement, mechanical plans, and construction materials of work
areas, and the type and model of proposed fixed equipment and facilities. The
Village and the Cook County Department of Public Health shall approve the plans
and specifications if they meet the requirements of this Chapter. No food
establishment shall be constructed, extensively remodeled, or converted except
in accordance with plans and specifications approved by the Village and the
Cook County Department of Public Health. (Ord. 97-8, 10-6-1997)
4-6-16: PREOPERATIONAL INSPECTION:
Whenever plans and specifications are required by Section
4-6-15 of this Chapter to be submitted to the Village and the Cook County
Department of Public Health, the Village and the Cook County Department of
Public Health shall inspect the food establishment prior to the start of
operations, to determine compliance with the approved plans and specifications
and with the requirements of this Chapter. (Ord. 97-8, 10-6-1997)
4-6-17: PROCEDURE WHEN INFECTION IS SUSPECTED:
When the Cook County Department of Public Health has reasonable cause to
suspect possible disease transmission by an employee of a food establishment,
it may secure a morbidity history of the suspected employee or make any other
investigation as indicated and shall take appropriate action. The Cook County
Department of Public Health may require any or all of the following measures:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The immediate exclusion of the employee from employment in food
establishments;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The immediate closing of the food establishment concerned until, in the
opinion of the Cook County Department of Public Health, no further danger of
disease outbreak exists;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Restriction of the employee's services to some area of the
establishment where there would be no danger of transmitted disease;
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Adequate medical and laboratory examination of the employee and of
other employees and of his and their body discharges. (Ord. 97-8, 10-6-1997)
4-6-18: REINSPECTION COSTS:
In the event a reinspection is deemed necessary by the inspector, the cost of
any and all subsequent reinspections shall be borne by the holder of the
permit, license, or certificate. (Ord. 97-8, 10-6-1997)
4-6-19: CONDITIONAL PERMIT, LICENSE OR CERTIFICATE:
When structural, plumbing, electrical, ventilation, or similar such defects
exist in an established food facility that may require significant expenditures
to correct, but are not considered to be imminent health hazards, a conditional
permit, license, or certificate may be granted at the discretion of the
Village. Under no circumstances will a conditional permit, license, or
certificate be issued for more than two (2) consecutive twelve (12) month
periods. The purpose of the conditional license or permit is to allow a
reasonable period of time for correction of existing defects. (Ord. 97-8, 10-6-
1997)
4-6-20: PENALTIES:
Any person violating the provisions of this Chapter shall be fined not more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense, and a separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation continues.
(Ord. 97-8, 10-6-1997)
4-6-21: INJUNCTIONS:
The Village shall have the right to enjoin any person or establishment in the
event violations occur on a continuing basis. (Ord. 97-8, 10-6-1997)
4-6-22: AUTOMATIC FOOD VENDING MACHINES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Application For License: In addition to the requirements of Section
4-6-4 of this Chapter, application for automatic food vending machine license
shall set forth the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Types of automatic food vending machines intended to be operated;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A description of each type;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Such further information as may be required by the Village
sanitarian in order to inform him fully as to the type of machine and the kind
of food to be dispensed therefrom.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Approval Of Machine, Inspection Of Premises: Before any license shall
be issued, the type of vending machine intended to be operated shall be
approved by the sanitarian who also shall cause an inspection to be made of the
premises of the applicant to determine the character and fitness of the
premises from the standpoint of ensuring protection of the food from improper
handling, dust, dirt, flies, vermin or other contamination.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â License Emblem: The Village Clerk shall deliver to each person licensed
to engage in a business of installing, keeping or maintaining automatic food
vending machines a license emblem. It shall be the duty of each licensee to
properly identify each food vending machine which he installs. Such
identification shall contain the name and business address of the licensee and
failure to properly affix and maintain such identification on each food vending
machine shall constitute a violation of this section.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Prohibited Acts Or Conditions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Location In Toilet Or Washroom: No automatic food vending machine
shall be installed or kept for use in any toilet or washroom.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to install,
keep or maintain or use or permit the installation, keeping, maintenance or use
upon his premises of any automatic food vending machine owned or operated by
any person who has not obtained a license as provided herein. (1987 Code; amd.
Ord. 97-8, 10-6-1997)
4-6-23: MOBILE FOOD VENDORS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Definitions: For the purposes of this section:
Â Â Â  LICENSEE: Shall mean any mobile food vendor or mobile food preparer that
has been licensed by the Village of Broadview to serve food from mobile food
vehicle.
Â Â Â MOBILE FOOD PREPARER OR PREPARER: Means any person who, by traveling from
place to place upon the public ways, including highways, alleys, sidewalks, or
other public ways, prepares and serves, sells or distributes perishable food
items from a mobile food vehicle.
Â Â Â MOBILE FOOD VEHICLE OR VEHICLE: Means a manufactured, motorized mobile food
unit, including but not limited to trucks, cars or other vehicles, as well as
motorcycles and bicycles, in which ready-to-eat food is cooked, wrapped,
packaged, processed, or portioned for service, sale or distribution. This
definition does not include any trucks, cars, other vehicles, motorcycles, or
bicycles used to deliver food ordered from a restaurant with a fixed place of
business.
Â Â Â MOBILE FOOD VENDOR OR VENDOR: Means any person who, by traveling from place
to place upon public ways, including highways, alleys, sidewalks, or other
public ways, serves ready-to-eat food which is cooked, wrapped, packaged,
processed, or portioned for service, sale or distribution, including selling
food prepared by a mobile food preparer, and shall include the owner of mobile
food vehicle or the owner's agent.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â License Required:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to operate
within the Village a mobile food vehicle or operate as a mobile food preparer
or mobile food vendor, as defined in this section, without first having
obtained a license for that purpose.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â License Application: Any person desiring to operate a mobile food
vehicle shall make a written application for such license to the Building
Commissioner or his/her designee. The application for such license shall be on
forms provided by the Building Commissioner or his/her designee and shall
include the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Name, signature and address of each applicant and each corporate
officer, owner, partner, or proprietor;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Name and address of the approved commercial supply source;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â A description of the preparation methods and food products
offered for sale, including the intended menu, display and distribution
containers;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â The anticipated volume of food to be stored, prepared and sold;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Plans and specifications for the mobile food vehicle, including
the proposed layout, photographs, mechanical schematics, construction
materials, finish schedules, equipment types, manufacturers, model numbers,
locations, dimensions, weight of vehicle per wheel, performance capacities,
power source, installation specifications and information on any custom
fabricated equipment;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Proof of full, unfettered and continuous access during hours of
operation to restrooms with a hand sink for use by employees within two hundred
feet (200') of the mobile food vehicle during times when the vehicle is parked
in one location for more than two (2) hours. Proof of access shall be evidenced
by written agreement between the mobile food vendor and the party providing
said access;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â A valid copy of all necessary licenses or permits required by
State health or transportation authorities. This includes proof of food handler
certification training or valid Illinois Food Service Sanitation Manager
Certification as required in the Food Handling Regulation Enforcement Act, 410
Illinois Compiled Statutes 625/0.01 et seq. During all times of mobile food
vehicle operation in the Village, at least one certified trained food handler
or someone holding a food service sanitation manager certificate issued by the
Illinois Department of Public Health must be present on the vehicle;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â A signed statement that the mobile food vendor shall defend, hold
harmless, and indemnify the Village and its officers and employees, and shall
indemnify the Village, its officers and employees for any claims for damage to
property or injury to persons which may be occasioned by any activity carried
on under the terms of the permit. Mobile food vendor shall furnish and maintain
such public liability, food products liability, and property damage insurance
as will protect the mobile food vendor, property owners, and the Village from
all claims for damage to property or bodily injury, including death, which may
arise from the operations under the license or in connection therewith. Such
insurance shall provide coverage of not less than one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) per occurrence. The policy shall further provide that it may
not be cancelled except upon thirty (30) days' written notice served upon the
Village President and on the Building Commissioner. A license issued pursuant
to the provisions of this section shall be invalid at any time the insurance
required herein is not maintained and evidence of continuing coverage is not
filed with the Building Commissioner and the Village President; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â i.Â Â Â The proposed location(s) and times of operation for conducting
business in accordance with this section. Mobile food vendors shall be required
to provide to the Village a signed statement that the mobile food vendor shall
defend, hold harmless, and indemnify the adjacent property owner(s) for any
claims for damage to property or injury to persons which may be occasioned by
any activity carried on or under the permit. No application will be accepted
for a permit to operate at a location where a current permit has been issued or
a complete application is pending. If the proposed location is private
property, the applicant shall provide to the Village written consent from the
property owner, which shall be duly notarized.
Mobile food vendor shall notify the Building Commissioner or his/her designee
within thirty (30) calendar days of any changes to application information.
It shall be the duty of the Building Commissioner or his/her designee to
inspect the vehicle and determine the fitness and suitability of the vehicle
for its intended use. The Building Commissioner may also direct the applicant
to have the vehicle inspected by the Cook County Department of Health, the
costs of which shall be paid by the mobile food vendor.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â License Fees: All mobile food vendors licensed under this section
shall pay an annual license fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). The fee
for any such license issued after July 1 in any calendar year shall equal one
hundred twenty five dollars ($125.00). One-day license fees shall also be
available for fifty dollars ($50.00) per day. No more than six (6) one-day
licenses will be issued to any applicant in a one year period.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Form And Condition Of Permit: In addition to naming the mobile food
vendor, the approved operating location site diagram, and other information
deemed appropriate by the Building Commissioner or his/her designee, the mobile
food vehicle vending permit shall contain the following conditions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Each mobile food vehicle vending license shall expire on December
31 of each year.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The license shall not be transferrable from person to person or
from place to place without the written approval of the Building Commissioner
or his/her designee.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The approved operational location may be changed, either
temporarily or permanently, by written notice of the Building Commissioner or
his/her designee.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â The license is valid for one mobile food vehicle only.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â There shall be issued to each mobile food vendor a suitable decal
that shall be permanently and prominently affixed to the vehicle.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Refusal To Issue; Suspension; Revocation: Licenses authorized to be
issued pursuant to this section may be suspended, revoked or refused to be
issued upon good cause shown. The Village may refuse to issue, revoke, or
suspend a license if any applicant or agent thereof refuses to comply with any
requirement of this section or has a debt that is in arrears to the Village.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Location Review And Restrictions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The license shall be referred to the Building Commissioner or his/
her designee for approval or disapproval. In the course of his or her review,
the Building Commissioner may, but is not required to, consult with the
Director of Public Works, the Police Chief, and the Fire Chief related to the
application for a license and the location(s) at which the license may be used.
The use of the licensed operating location for mobile food vending must be
compatible with the public interest in use of the public right-of-way. In
making such determination, the Building Commissioner, in consultation with the
Director of Public Works, the Police Chief, and the Fire Chief or their
designee shall consider the width of the public way, parking issues and traffic
congestion, the weight that can be supported by the paving or street surface at
the proposed location, the proximity and location of existing street furniture,
including, but not limited to, utility poles, parking meters, bus shelters,
benches, street trees, news racks, as well as the presence of bus stops, truck
loading zones, taxi stands, valet parking zones, fire hydrants, or other
businesses or approved mobile food vehicles to determine whether the requested
location would result in pedestrian or street congestion.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The Building Commissioner or his/her designee shall not approve a
location where a mobile food vehicle would substantially obstruct highways,
alleys, sidewalks, or other public ways, impair the movement of pedestrians or
vehicles, or pose a hazard to public safety. The Building Commissioner or his/
her designee shall not approve any location which is adjacent to a bus stop,
taxi stand, or handicap loading zone, within thirty feet (30') of an
intersection, within three feet (3') of a curb, within fifteen feet (15') of a
fire hydrant, within twenty feet (20') of a fire station or police station, or
directly in front of a property entryway. Pedestrian walkways of no less than
six feet (6') must be maintained around the mobile food vehicle.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for a mobile food vehicle vendor to park,
stand, or operate in a location which is adjacent to or within one hundred feet
(100') of the address point of a licensed restaurant. This requirement may be
waived if the application is submitted with the duly notarized written consent
of the proprietor of the adjacent restaurant. No person or entity shall either
pay or accept payment for the written consent provided herein. If applicable,
this requirement shall not apply to a licensed restaurant affiliated with the
mobile food vehicle vendor provided that satisfactory written proof as
determined by the Building Commissioner is provided.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The Village shall not approve more than one mobile food vehicle per
private parking lot, which must remain in compliance with this Code.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Mobile food vendor shall not operate a mobile food vehicle within
five hundred feet (500') of the address point of any fair, carnival, circus,
festival, special event, or civic event that is licensed or sanctioned by the
Village except when mobile food vendor has obtained a one-day food permit from
the Village.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â On days when school is in session at elementary, middle, and
secondary schools (public or private), it shall be unlawful for any mobile food
vendor to operate a mobile food vehicle within five hundred feet (500') of the
address point of property of a school. During summer school sessions, this
restriction shall apply only to those individual schools which are in
operation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â A mobile food vendor shall not operate on private property within
the corporate limits of Village without first obtaining written consent to
operate from the affected private property owner to operate.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â The Building Commissioner, the Director of Public Works, the Police
Chief, and the Fire Chief, or their designees, shall work cooperatively to
review and determine location restrictions related to the parking and operation
of mobile food vehicles and shall consider public safety and right-of- way
safety issues.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Mobile food vehicle vendors may be permitted to operate and locate
within locations and times approved by the Building Commissioner. The license
must be prominently displayed on the mobile food vehicle at all times. The
mobile food vehicle vendors must pay any and all parking meter fees for the
time and usage of any and all Village parking spaces, including paving parking
meter fees for the usage of multiple parking spaces during operation of the
vehicle and must obey all parking and traffic regulations.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Sanitation And Inspections:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â All mobile food vehicles shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition. It shall be the duty of the Building Commissioner or his/her
designee, which may include the Cook County Health Department, to make or cause
to be made such inspections as may be necessary to ensure all mobile food
vehicles are kept in a clean and sanitary condition. The Building Commissioner
or his/her designee, which may include the Cook County Health Department or
his/her designee, bearing proper identification, shall be permitted to enter or
access any mobile food vehicle at any reasonable time for the purpose of
inspecting to determine whether the mobile food vendor has complied with the
terms of this section. Additionally, the mobile food vendor shall, on request,
provide the Building Commissioner or his/her designee, which may include the
Cook County Health Department, with the records of the mobile food vehicle to
obtain information pertaining to food and supplies purchased, received or used.
Denial of access to the mobile food vehicle or to said records shall be deemed
an interference with the Building Commissioner or his/her designee, which may
include the Cook County Health Department, in the performance of his/her duties
and may result in an immediate suspension of the mobile food vendor's license.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â All food storage, preparation and distribution of food, and vehicle
equipment must meet applicable Illinois Department of Public Health and the
Cook County Department of Health standards and requirements, as well as
standards to be determined by the Building Commissioner or his/her designee.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â All food, beverages, ice and other materials sold or used in
preparation of goods to be sold must be obtained from an approved commercial
supply source. The Building Commissioner shall be responsible for approving
commercial supply sources and shall keep a list of approved commercial supply
sources in a conveniently accessible location.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â All off-site food preparation and food storage must be done either
at a Village of Broadview licensed food establishment or if the mobile food
vehicle vendor is outside the jurisdiction of the Village, it must comply with
the applicable requirements of this Code as well as all requirements of the
Cook County Department of Health and the State of Illinois. All mobile food
vendors or applicants that intend to dispense foods that are prepared and
wrapped in a commissary, must conduct their operations under the supervision of
a State and/or local health authority. All mobile food vehicle vendors and the
mobile food preparers must prepare food in compliance with any and all rules
and regulations of the Illinois Department of Health and the Cook County
Department of Health and conducts its operations under the supervision of a
State or local health authority. The mobile food vehicle vendor shall, in
addition to the application, if requested, provide reports including inspection
reports and laboratory results from the State and local health authority in the
jurisdiction where the food source or commissary is located, indicating
compliance with such approval. Food cannot be prepared in a home, apartment,
other living space or garage.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â All waste liquids, garbage, litter and refuse shall be kept in leak-
proof, nonabsorbent containers which shall be kept covered with tight-fitting
lids and properly disposed of either at an affiliated licensed restaurant or
alternative location(s) as disclosed and agreed to with the Building
Commissioner or his/her designee. No waste liquids, garbage, litter or refuse
shall be dumped or drained into sidewalks, streets, gutters, drains, trash
receptacles, other than the agreed locations with Village staff. A garbage
receptacle shall be easily accessible for customer use. Mobile food vendors
shall be responsible for all litter and garbage left by customers.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Restrictions On Use:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Hours of operation for mobile food vendors shall be limited to the
hours between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. The
hours of operation for mobile food vehicles located within three hundred feet
(300') of a residential building or a mixed use building with a residential
component shall be limited to the hours between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and
nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. No mobile food vehicle shall be left unattended on
highways, alleys, sidewalks, or other public ways, nor remain on highways,
alleys, sidewalks, or other public ways outside of these allowed hours of
operation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â No mobile food vehicle vendor shall use or maintain any outside
sound amplifying equipment, lights, or noisemakers, such as bells, horns or
whistles to attract attention or customers, except that the vehicle may
maintain standard issued vehicle equipment without modifications to said
equipment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â No mobile food vehicle shall use external signage, bollards,
seating, or any other equipment not contained within the vehicle except that a
retractable awning may be used at the exterior food service and food sales
area.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The mobile food vehicle shall not have a drive-through.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Mobile food vendor shall obey all State, local, and Village laws as
well as any lawful order of a police officer to move to a different permitted
location to avoid congestion or obstruction of a public way or remove the
vehicle entirely from the public way if necessary to avoid such congestion or
obstruction.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â The mobile food vehicle must prominently display the name, address,
and phone number of the owner.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â The mobile food vehicle shall display its permit/decal prominently
on the vehicle's windshield in the lower right hand corner (passenger's side)
of the windshield.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Any power required for the mobile food vehicle located on a public
way shall be self-contained and shall not use utilities drawn from the public
right-of-way. Mobile food vehicles on private property may use electrical power
from an adjacent property only when the property owner provides written
consent. All other power sources must be self- contained. No power cable or
equipment shall be extended at grade across any Village street, alley or
sidewalk.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â All identifying information, logos, advertising, decorations, or
other displays on the exterior of a mobile food vehicle shall conform to this
Code related to regulating commercial signage, to the extent applicable. In
particular, exterior displays shall be designed to minimize confusion or
distraction that jeopardizes vehicular and pedestrian safety and shall be
harmonious with the surroundings and consistent with the character of the
community in which the mobile food vehicle operates.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â License Adverse Action:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â An application or approved license may be denied, revoked,
suspended, or not renewed for any of the following reasons listed herein,
however, this list is not exhaustive and licenses could be denied, revoked,
suspended or not renewed for other reasons provided good cause is shown. Some
of the reasons that licenses may be denied, revoked, suspended, or not renewed,
include but are not limited to:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The application contains material omissions or false, fraudulent,
or deceptive statements.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The vehicle is operated in such a manner as constituting a public
nuisance per the Village of Broadview Code of ordinances or State Statutes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The applicant or mobile food vendor's operation has or likely
would endanger the health, safety, and welfare of the residents, business-
owners, and visitors to the Village.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â The proposed operation is in violation of any Federal, State, or
local laws including, but not limited to, the provisions of this Code and the
Cook County Code of Ordinances pertaining to food, fire prevention, public
health or safety.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The provisions of this section are not exclusive. This section shall
not preclude the enforcement of any other provisions of this Code or County,
State and Federal laws, regulations, rules, and ordinances.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Appeal Rights:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A licensee or mobile food vendor applicant shall have the option to
appeal an adverse decision of the Building Commissioner to the Corporate
Authorities. Such appeals must be in writing with a copy of the adverse
decision attached thereto and the licensee or the mobile food vendor applicant
must state the reason he or she believes this decision to be in error. The
appeal shall be filed with the Village of Broadview - Village Clerk's Office no
later than fourteen (14) calendar days after the issuance of the adverse
decision. A failure to timely appeal and attach a copy of the decision shall be
grounds for the appeal to be dismissed with prejudice. The decision of the
Corporate Authorities is final.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Violations:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Any mobile food vendor or mobile food preparer shall be subject to a
fine of not less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) and not more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Each day of a continuing violation shall constitute a separate
violation and a penalty of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
per day may be assessed for each day the violation continues.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Pending a hearing pursuant to title 1, chapter 13 of this Code, the
Building Commissioner shall be authorized to suspend the license of the mobile
food vendor and the mobile food vendor shall cease its operations pending the
outcome of the hearing. (Ord. 2017-133, 9-18-2017)
CHAPTER 7
OFFENSIVE, UNWHOLESOME BUSINESSES AND ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
4-7-1: Unwholesome Businesses Prohibited
4-7-2: Treatment Of Metals
4-7-2-1: License Required
4-7-2-2: Application For License
4-7-2-3: Requirements And Restrictions
4-7-2-4: Inspection Of Premises
4-7-3: Foundries, Renderies, Slaughterhouses
4-7-3-1: License Required
4-7-3-2: Application For License, Issuance
4-7-3-3: Location
4-7-4: Paint Spraying
4-7-4-1: License Required
4-7-4-2: Application For License
4-7-4-3: Fire Regulations
4-7-4-4: Inspection Of Premises
4-7-5: Reclaiming Industrial Solvents
4-7-5-1: License Required
4-7-5-2: Application For License
4-7-5-3: Investigation, Issuance Of License, License Fee
4-7-1: UNWHOLESOME BUSINESSES PROHIBITED 1 :
It shall be unlawful to establish any unwholesome business, or any business or
factory causing noxious odors within the Village or within one mile of the
Village limits. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See Section 3-1-10 of this Code, and Section 4-3-1 of this Title.
4-7-2: TREATMENT OF METALS:
4-7-2-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to engage in any business in which nitric acid, muriatic
acid, sulfuric acid or similar chemicals are used in the treatment of metals
without having first secured a license therefor. (1987 Code)
4-7-2-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE 2 :
Application for license shall be made in full compliance with the general
provisions of Title 3, Chapter 1 of this Code and shall designate the kinds and
quantities of such chemicals to be stored on the premises. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
2 2. See Section 3-1A-2 of this Code.
4-7-2-3: REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Storage And Ventilation: All chemicals referred to herein shall be
safely stored in adequate containers labeled and used only for such chemicals,
and all rooms in which such chemicals are stored or used shall be properly
vented and ventilated so that an adequate supply of fresh air is present at all
working hours.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Excessive Fumes: It shall be unlawful to permit the escape of sulfuric
acid fumes or of any harmful fumes, in quantities sufficient to be noticeable
or an annoyance to the inhabitants of any building in the Village. (1987 Code)
4-7-2-4: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
The Bureau of Fire Prevention shall make or cause to be made all inspections
necessary to see to the enforcement of the provisions of this Section
4-7-2. (1987 Code)
4-7-3: FOUNDRIES, RENDERIES, SLAUGHTERHOUSES:
4-7-3-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to operate or maintain any foundry within the Village or
any rendery, tallow chandlery, soap factory, tannery, packing plant or
slaughterhouse within the Village or within one mile of the Village limits
without having secured a license therefor. (1987 Code)
4-7-3-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE, ISSUANCE:
Application for license shall be made in writing to the Village Clerk, but no
such license shall be issued except upon the express order of the Village Board
of Trustees. (1987 Code)
4-7-3-3: LOCATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Frontage Consents Required In Residential District: It shall be
unlawful to establish any factory or establishment mentioned herein in any
place where a majority of the premises within a radius of five hundred feet
(500') are used for residence purposes without the consent of the owners of
two-thirds (2/3) of all the premises within such radius. Such frontage consents
must be obtained and filed with the Clerk before a license will be issued.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Zoning Requirements Take Precedence: The provisions of this Section
shall not be construed to permit the establishment of any factory or place of
business in any location where such factory or place of business is prohibited
by the zoning regulations 1 . (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See Title 10 of this Code.
4-7-4: PAINT SPRAYING:
4-7-4-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to operate any manufacturing or other business in which
paint spraying is done or paint spraying equipment is used without having first
secured a license therefor. (1987 Code)
4-7-4-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
All applications for the licenses required herein shall be made in writing to
the Village Clerk and shall contain in addition to the information required by
the general provisions of Title 3, Chapter 1 of this Code, a statement of the
paint spraying equipment and the location thereof. (1987 Code)
4-7-4-3: FIRE REGULATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Use In Fireproof Room Required: No paint spraying equipment shall be
maintained or used in any frame building or in any nonfireproof building unless
such equipment is maintained and used only in a fireproof room equipped with
automatic fire doors.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Refuse And Rubbish: No rubbish or refuse shall be allowed to accumulate
upon the premises, and all such rubbish or refuse shall be collected not less
frequently than once every twenty four (24) hours, and either removed from the
premises and disposed of in a manner complying with the law or stored in
fireproof containers with an adequate fireproof cover. Such cover shall always
be kept closed unless when necessary to take out to dispose of such refuse.
(1987 Code)
4-7-4-4: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
The Fire Chief shall make or cause to be made such inspections as may be
necessary to see to the enforcement of this Section
4-7-4. (1987 Code)
4-7-5: RECLAIMING INDUSTRIAL SOLVENTS:
4-7-5-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the business of reclaiming industrial solvents
including carbon tetrachloride, naphtha, toluol, trichlorethylene, acetone,
butyl acetate and mixtures of the above or other coal tar and petroleum
hydrocarbons, without first having obtained a license so to do. (1987 Code)
4-7-5-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person who desires to engage in the business set forth herein within the
corporate limits, shall make application therefor in writing to the Village
Clerk who shall refer such application to the Fire Chief for investigation.
(1987 Code)
4-7-5-3: INVESTIGATION, ISSUANCE OF LICENSE, LICENSE FEE:
The Fire Chief, upon receipt of the application, shall investigate the person
requesting the license, and if after such investigation, no good cause for
refusing its issuance is shown, it shall be issued by the President and Board
of Trustees upon the payment by the applicant of the license fee as set forth
in Section
3-1A-1 of this Code. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 8
PET SHOPS
SECTION:
4-8-1: License Required, Application
4-8-2: Premises Requirements
4-8-3: Diseased Animals
4-8-4: Inspections
4-8-1: LICENSE REQUIRED, APPLICATION 1 :
It shall be unlawful to engage in the business of dealer in birds, cats, dogs
or other household pets in the village without first having obtained a license
therefor. Application for such license shall be made to the village clerk.
(1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See title 3, chapter 1 of this code.
4-8-2: PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
Premises used for the purposes enumerated herein shall be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition and shall be thoroughly cleaned at least once each day and
shall be kept well ventilated. No refuse shall be allowed to accumulate thereon
for a longer period than twenty four (24) hours. (1987 Code)
4-8-3: DISEASED ANIMALS:
Any diseased animal on such premises shall be kept in separate quarters so that
there shall be no danger of a spread of any disease from one animal to another.
(1987 Code)
4-8-4: INSPECTIONS:
The village sanitarian shall make or cause to be made such inspections as may
be necessary to see to the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. (1987
Code)
CHAPTER 9
HOMES AND INSTITUTIONS 1
SECTION:
4-9-1: Definition
4-9-2: License Required
4-9-3: Application For License
4-9-4: Investigation, Inspection
4-9-5: License Fee Exemption
4-9-6: Frontage Consents Required
4-9-7: Records
4-9-8: Building Requirements
4-9-9: Penalties
Â 
Notes
1 1. See Title 3, Chapter 1 of this Code and Chapter 10 of this Title.
4-9-1: DEFINITION:
The word "home" is hereby defined to be any institution, place or facility used
for the reception or care of three (3) or more infants or children, apart from
their parents; and any institution used for the care of persons who are
dependent or not capable of properly caring for themselves. The term "home"
shall be understood to include homes for the aged or infirm, orphan asylums,
half orphan asylums, refuges and shelters. (1987 Code)
4-9-2: LICENSE REQUIRED 2 :
It shall be unlawful for any person other than the regularly constituted
authorities of the United States, the County or any association or institution
which has been accredited, certified or licensed by the State pursuant to an
act of the legislature to regulate the treatment and control of dependent,
neglected and delinquent children, to conduct or operate any home within the
Village without first obtaining a license therefor. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
2 2. 225 ILCS 10/1 et seq.
4-9-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
The applicant shall file an application with the Village Clerk stating the
following:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The proposed location of the home;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The purpose for which it is to be conducted or operated;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The accommodations for the inmates thereof;
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The nature and kind of care;
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Instructions or benefits given or proposed to be given;
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â The name and address of the party or parties conducting, managing or
maintaining the home;
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â The name of the superintendent or person in charge of the home; and
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â The name and address of the attending physician. (1987 Code)
4-9-4: INVESTIGATION, INSPECTION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Investigation Of Applicant: The application must be filed with the
Chief of Police who shall make or cause to be made, a strict inquiry into the
facts set out in such application to determine whether such home is or is
intended to be so conducted as to afford proper accommodations for the care of
the persons received or proposed to be received, and that the superintendent in
charge thereof is a person of good moral character and has sufficient
experience to conduct such home.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Building Inspection: Every home shall at all times be opened to
inspection by the Chief of Police, the Fire Chief and the Building Commissioner
whenever and as often as they shall deem proper. (1987 Code)
4-9-5: LICENSE FEE EXEMPTION:
Homes which are operated without charge being made for care of inmates shall be
exempt from the payment of a license fee. Operators of such homes shall file an
affidavit with application stating that no charge is to be made for the care of
inmates. This affidavit shall be investigated as to its credibility by the
Chief of Police and upon his recommendation to the Village Trustees, the
license will be issued without charge. Such exemption shall continue only for
the duration of the license period. (1987 Code)
4-9-6: FRONTAGE CONSENTS REQUIRED:
No license shall be issued to any person to operate or conduct a home in any
block in which two-thirds (2/3) of the buildings on the street are devoted
exclusively to residential purposes unless a majority of the property owners on
both sides of the street in such block consent in writing of the operation of
such home. (1987 Code)
4-9-7: RECORDS:
Every home shall keep a complete record of each inmate showing the date
admitted to the home, name, address, sex, social status, date of discharge,
name and address of persons from whom received. (1987 Code)
4-9-8: BUILDING REQUIREMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Compliance With Building And Fire Regulations: Any building used as a
home shall comply with the building code 1  and fire regulations of the Village
2 .
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Isolation Room For Contagious Diseases: Every home shall be provided
with a suitable room or rooms, to be used for the isolation of cases of
contagious, infectious, epidemic or communicable diseases that may be found in
the home, until such time as the person suffering from such contagious disease
is removed. This room shall have separate toilet facilities and washstands.
(1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  9-1-2 of this Code.
2 2. See Title 5 of this Code.
4-9-9: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be subject to
a fine as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code; that in the event of conviction of any such person for a
violation of any of the provisions of this Chapter relating to the safety and
accommodations of the inmates, it shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to
close such home and to cause its vacation pending the repairs, alterations or
additions necessary to make it safe and proper for the occupancy of its
inmates. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 10
DAY NURSERIES 1
SECTION:
4-10-1: Definition
4-10-2: Permit Required, Application
4-10-3: Investigation, Inspections
4-10-4: Issuance Of Permit, Term, Appeals
4-10-5: Revocation Of Permit
4-10-6: Rules And Regulations
Â 
Notes
1 1. See Title 3, Chapter 1 of this Code and Chapter 9 of this Title.
4-10-1: DEFINITION:
For the purpose of this Chapter the term "day nursery" shall mean any childcare
facility receiving one or more children for care during part or all of a day
between six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and shall include
facilities commonly called "childcare centers", "day nurseries", "nursery
schools", kindergartens", and "playgroups", with or without stated educational
purposes. The term "day nursery" does not include:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Bona fide kindergartens or nursery schools operating under the auspices
of established public or private boards of education;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Bona fide kindergartens or nursery schools approved by the
superintendent of public instruction or the school districts in which such
kindergartens or nursery schools are located; or
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Those facilities operated in connection with a shopping center or
shopping service where transient children are received while parents are
shopping on the premises. (1987 Code)
4-10-2: PERMIT REQUIRED, APPLICATION:
Every person desiring to operate a day nursery in the Village shall obtain a
permit therefor before commencing operation and shall make application therefor
to the Village Clerk on forms furnished by him. The application shall contain
such information as may be required by the Clerk. (1987 Code)
4-10-3: INVESTIGATION, INSPECTIONS:
Upon receipt of an application for a permit required herein, the Village Clerk
shall refer it to the Health Department for investigation. The Health
Department shall inspect the premises where in the day nursery is proposed as
to the following conditions:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The operation and conduct of the facility and the responsibility it
assumes for childcare;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The character, suitability and qualifications of the applicant and
other persons directly responsible for the care and welfare of children served;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The general financial ability and competence of the applicant to
provide necessary care for children and to maintain prescribed standards;
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The adequacy of the number of individuals required to ensure adequate
supervision and care of the children;
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â The appropriateness, safety, cleanliness and general adequacy of the
premises, including maintenance of adequate fire prevention and health
standards in conformance to State laws;
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Provisions for food, clothing, education opportunities, program,
equipment and individual supplies to assure the healthy physical, mental and
spiritual development of the children served; and
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Discipline of the children.
The Health Department and the Fire Chief shall make periodic inspections of all
premises used as day nurseries and shall issue such orders as they deem
necessary to maintain health standards and fire protection. (1987 Code)
4-10-4: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT, TERM, APPEALS:
If, after investigation, the Health Department recommends the issuance of the
permit, the Village Clerk shall issue such permit which shall be valid for the
Village license year.
Any person aggrieved by the failure of the Health Department to approve the
issuance of a day nursery permit may appeal to the Board of Trustees whose
decision shall be final. (1987 Code)
4-10-5: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
Any permit issued under the terms of this Chapter may be revoked for the
following reasons:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Consistent failure to maintain health standards prescribed.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Violation of the terms of the license.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Furnishing or making false or misleading information in the
application. (1987 Code)
4-10-6: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Health Department of the Village shall prescribe rules and regulations
pertaining to the operation and standards of day nurseries. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 11
CEMETERIES
SECTION:
4-11-1: Boundaries Of Existing Cemeteries Established
4-11-2: Interment Rules And Regulations
4-11-1: BOUNDARIES OF EXISTING CEMETERIES ESTABLISHED:
The boundaries of all cemeteries within the limits of the Village are hereby
fixed at the enclosures now surrounding such cemeteries; and the boundaries of
such cemeteries as are now enclosed shall be the same as now appear on record
in the maps, plats, deeds or in the letter of application of such cemeteries.
(1987 Code)
4-11-2: INTERMENT RULES AND REGULATIONS 1 :
No corpse shall be interred in any place within the limits of the Village not
actually used as a cemetery on September 17, 1934, or lying within the
enclosure of a cemetery not established on or before that day, except as
hereinafter provided.
It shall be lawful to inter dead bodies within the limits of any cemetery
established and used as a cemetery on September 17, 1934, under such rules and
regulations as may, from time to time, be made by the President and the Board
of Trustees; but the burial of any corpse outside of such limits and within the
Village shall be deemed a violation of this Section. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 4-2-1B of this Title.
CHAPTER 12
GARAGE SALES
SECTION:
4-12-1: Defined
4-12-2: Items Prohibited
4-12-3: Permit Required
4-12-4: Length And Frequency Of Sales
4-12-5: Location Of Sale
4-12-6: Signs
4-12-7: Penalty
4-12-1: DEFINED:
"Garage Sale" means an occasional sale of used or surplus household goods,
furnishings, wares and other items of personal property owned by the occupier
of the residence where such sale is held, and includes sales commonly known as
basement sales, house sales, yard sales, attic sales, rummage sales, estate
sales or other similar occasional sales from residentially zoned premises.
(Ord. 2001-20, 9-10-2001)
4-12-2: ITEMS PROHIBITED:
The sale of the following items is prohibited at a garage sale: food; drink;
animals; bulk sales of any item; multiple new items of the same description;
consigned merchandise; junk or antique items sold as a business activity by a
person involved therein as a junk or antique dealer. Items purchased for
intentional sale or resale may not be sold at such a sale. (Ord. 2001-20, 9-10-
2001)
4-12-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or allow a "garage sale" as
defined herein on premises zoned or used for residential purposes without first
obtaining a permit to conduct such sale. The applicant must be the owner or
occupant of the residence where the sale is to be held, and the applicant shall
apply for and obtain such a permit from the village clerk at least seventy two
(72) hours in advance of the date of such sale. There shall be a ten dollar
($10.00) fee for such permit. The permit shall list the name of the applicant
and the address at which the sale is to be held. Each permit shall be
prominently displayed on the premises covered by the permit in such a manner as
to be easily visible to persons passing by the premises on a public street.
(Ord. 2001-20, 9-10-2001)
4-12-4: LENGTH AND FREQUENCY OF SALES:
Garage sales shall be permitted for not more than three (3) consecutive days
between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of
each day. Not more than three (3) garage sales shall be conducted on the same
premises within any calendar year. (Ord. 2001-20, 9-10-2001)
4-12-5: LOCATION OF SALE:
All activity associated with the garage sale shall be limited to the property
specified on the permit. Additionally, no garage, no sidewalk, street, alley,
or parkway may be hindered, obstructed, or occupied by any items for sale or
any related garage sale activity. (Ord. 2001-20, 9-10-2001)
4-12-6: SIGNS:
No more than two (2) signs advertising the garage/yard sale may be posted on
the lot where the sale is being held, and the size of such signs shall not
exceed two feet by three feet (2' x 3'). Such signs shall not be posted for
more than four (4) days. (Ord. 2002-02, 1-14-2002)
4-12-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this section shall, upon conviction, be
fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for each offense. Each day that such a violation occurs or
continues shall be deemed to constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 2001-20, 9-
10-2001)
CHAPTER 13
VACANT PROPERTY
SECTION:
4-13-1: Declaration Of Policy
4-13-2: Other Ordinances
4-13-3: Definitions
4-13-4: Determination
4-13-5: Appeal Of Determination
4-13-6: Registration Required
4-13-7: Vacant Building Plan
4-13-8: Approval Of Plan
4-13-9: Modify Vacant Building Plan
4-13-10: Failure To Comply With Plan
4-13-11: Other Enforcement
4-13-12: Certification
4-13-13: Time Restrictions
4-13-14: Enforcement And Penalties
4-13-15: Single-Family Residential; Registration And Renewal Fee
4-13-16: Multi-Family Residential Or Commercial Buildings; Registration And
Renewal Fee
4-13-17: Industrial Buildings; Registration And Renewal Fee
4-13-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare by:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Establishing a program for identification, registration, and
maintenance of buildings which are or become vacant on and after the effective
date of this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Determining the responsibilities of the owners of record of vacant
buildings.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Providing for administration, enforcement, including the abatement of
public nuisances, and imposition of penalties. (Ord. 10-28, 5-3-2010)
4-13-2: OTHER ORDINANCES:
This chapter shall not be construed to prevent the enforcement of other
applicable ordinances, codes, legislation, and regulations prescribing
standards other than are provided herein, and in the event of conflict, the
most restrictive shall apply. (Ord. 10-28, 5-3-2010)
4-13-3: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise expressly stated or clearly indicated by context, the
following terms shall, for the purpose of this chapter, have the meanings
indicated in this section:
BOARDED BUILDING: A building which has had in a manner intended to be temporary
or permanent, any or all openings, which openings are windows or doors which
were present for the purpose of light, ventilation or egress, some material
whether opaque, solid or transparent, affixed to such openings, from the
interior or exterior of the building, for the purpose of securing or preventing
access or damage to the building or its components.
BUILDING: Any structure occupied or intended for supporting or sheltering any
occupancy.
DANGEROUS OR UNSAFE BUILDING: All buildings or structures that are found to
pose a danger to the life, health, property or safety of the public by not
providing minimum safeguards to protect or warn the public in the event of a
fire, or because such structure contains unsafe equipment, or is so damaged,
decayed, dilapidated, structurally unsafe or of such faulty or incomplete
construction or unstable, that partial or complete collapse or systems failures
are possible.
DIRECTOR: The building commissioner, or his/her designee.
OWNER: Any person, agent, operator, firm, or corporation having a legal or
equitable interest in the property, including lienholders of record; or
recorded in the official records of the state, county, or municipality as
holding title to the property; or otherwise having control of the property,
including the guardian of the estate of any such person, and the executor or
administrator of the estate of such person if ordered to take possession of
real property by a court.
PERSON: Includes a corporation, a partnership, or other entity, as well as an
individual.
PREMISES: A lot, plot or parcel of land including any structure thereon.
UNOCCUPIED BUILDING: A building or portion thereof which lacks the habitual
presence of human beings who have a legal right to be on the premises,
including buildings ordered vacated by the director pursuant to authority
granted by this code. This definition does not include a building that is
actively for sale, lease or rent, as evidenced by a contractual agreement
between the homeowner of record and a licensed real estate agent or brokerage,
and performance of sufficient maintenance that the building or the property on
which it sits does not become a nuisance.
VACANT BUILDINGS: Any building that has not been legally occupied for a
consecutive period of one month unless one of the following is true:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The building is the subject of an active building permit for repair or
rehabilitation and the owner is progressing diligently to complete the repair
or rehabilitation.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The building meets all codes, is not in a state of disrepair or
deterioration, is ready for occupancy, and is actively being offered for sale,
lease or rent and is actively being maintained and monitored by the owner.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the building is still not legally occupied
within thirty (30) days after completion of the repairs as specified in
subsection A of this definition or within sixty (60) days after the director
has determined that the building has met all codes as specified in subsection B
of this definition, the director may declare the building a vacant building.
(Ord. 10-28, 5-3-2010)
4-13-4: DETERMINATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â After the effective date of this chapter, the director shall evaluate
all buildings in the village believed to be unoccupied on the effective date of
this chapter and make a determination for each as to whether the building is a
"vacant building" within the meaning of section
4-13-3 of this chapter. The director may determine that a building which meets
any of the criteria set forth in this chapter is not to be regulated under this
chapter for a stated period, if upon consideration of reliable, substantiated
and sufficient evidence, the director determines that regulation of the
building under this chapter would not serve the public health, welfare, and
safety and makes written findings in support of this decision. The
determination shall be in writing and shall state the factual basis for the
determination.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â For buildings the director determines to be "vacant buildings", the
director shall send notice of this written determination with the factual
findings to the last taxpayer of record listed on the most recent Cook County
tax roll and if notice is to a lienholder then to the address of the
lienholder. Said notice of determination shall be sent first class United
States mail, with proper postage prepaid. Failure of delivery shall not excuse
a person from complying with this chapter. The director may also personally
serve or cause personal service of the notice of determination. Any person
making such service shall execute an affidavit attesting to the facts of
service. The director shall maintain an affidavit of such mailing for each
notice of determination sent.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The notice shall specify a date and time on which the owner may
voluntarily allow for a code compliance inspection of the interior of the
vacant building and surrounding yards and property to determine the extent of
compliance with village property, building, health, fire, and plumbing codes.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â For residential buildings, if a voluntary code compliance inspection is
scheduled by the owner and a plan to maintain the structure, yards and property
is submitted by the owner to and approved by the village, no costs for the code
compliance inspection will be assessed by the village.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â For all residential buildings in which a voluntary code compliance
inspection is not scheduled by the owner and for all commercial and industrial
buildings, all village inspection fees and any costs and fees associated with
all actions to gain entry to the structure, yards and property and any costs
and fees associated in correcting code violations will be the responsibility of
the owner. Any unpaid costs and fees shall be recaptured by a lien upon the
premises.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â The notice shall contain a statement of the obligations of the owner of
a building determined to be vacant, a copy of the registration form the owner
is required to file pursuant to this chapter, and a notice of the owner's right
to appeal the director's determination. (Ord. 10-28, 5-3-2010)
4-13-5: APPEAL OF DETERMINATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â An owner of a building determined by the director to be a vacant
building as provided for in this chapter may appeal that determination to the
village president. Such appeal shall be in writing and shall be filed with the
village president within fifteen (15) days of the date of mailing of the notice
of determination. The filing of an appeal stays the owner's obligation to
register his building as required by this chapter. The appeal shall contain a
complete statement of the reasons the owner disputes the director's
determination, shall set forth specific facts in support thereof, and shall
include all evidence the owner relies upon to support the appeal. The village
president or the village president's designee shall decide the appeal on the
basis of facts presented by the owner in his or her written appeal and the
director's written determination.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The burden is upon the owner to present sufficient evidence to persuade
the village president that had the evidence been known to the director at the
time the director made the determination, the director would more likely than
not have determined that the subject building was not a "vacant building"
within the meaning of this chapter.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The village president or his designee shall send written notice of a
decision to the owner within thirty (30) days of his or her receipt of the
appeal. The village president may, but is not required to, seek additional
information from the owner. The village president may, upon written notice
thereof to the owner, take no more than ten (10) additional days, to decide the
appeal if he or she determines that such additional time is required for
consideration of the appeal. (Ord. 10-28, 5-3-2010)
4-13-6: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
The owner of a building who knows, or from all the facts and circumstances
should know, that his or her building is or has become a "vacant building"
within the meaning of this chapter after the effective date of this chapter, or
the owner of a building, which the director determines at any time to be a
"vacant building", or the owner of a building whose appeal from the director's
determination has been denied by the village president shall take the actions
provided for in this section within fifteen (15) days after either the date of
director's notice of determination or occurrence of the facts that would cause
a reasonable person to believe that the building was a "vacant building", or
denial of the appeal, whichever is applicable. Registration does not exonerate
the owner from compliance with all applicable codes and ordinances, including
this chapter, nor does it preclude any of the actions the village is authorized
to take pursuant to this chapter or elsewhere in this code or as allowable by
Illinois or federal law. In such case, the owner shall do the following:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Register the building with the director, on a form provided by the
director and pay the annual nonprorated vacant building registration fee as
provided in this chapter. The form shall include, as a minimum, the name,
street address, and telephone number of the owner; the case name and number of
any litigation pending concerning or affecting the building, including, but not
limited to, bankruptcy, foreclosure and other cases; and the name, street
address, and telephone number of all persons with any legal interest, including
lienholders, in the building or the premises. The form shall require the owner
to identify a natural person twenty one (21) years of age or older who
maintains a permanent address in Cook County, Illinois, to accept service on
behalf of the owner with respect to any notices the director sends pursuant to
this chapter or service of process in any proceeding commenced to enforce any
provision of this chapter, and file with the director on the registration form,
the name, address, telephone number, of said person. A street address is
required. A post office box is not an acceptable address; and
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Renew the vacant building registration each year on the anniversary
date of the first filing for the time the building remains vacant and pay the
annual fee as provided in this chapter; and
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â File an amended registration within fifteen (15) days of any change in
the information contained in the annual registration. A new registration is
required for any change in ownership whatsoever.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The owner executing a form to indicate his or her "acceptance of notice
by posting" consenting to service of notices sent or required to be sent,
pursuant to this chapter, by posting on the building if the owner fails to
renew the registration, if required, or maintain as current with the director
the information required regarding the person designated to accept notice and
service of process.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â The owner shall allow for a code compliance inspection of the interior
of the vacant building and shall be subject to village costs and fees outlined
in this chapter within fifteen (15) days of the registration or renewal
registration. Such inspection will determine the extent of compliance with all
applicable village property, building, electrical, plumbing, fire and similar
codes.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Obtain liability insurance and maintain such insurance for as long as
the building is vacant, and file evidence of such insurance with the director,
as follows:
For a vacant residential building of:
Â 1 to 3 units                                      Â $ 500,000.00
Â 4 to 11 units                                     Â 750,000.00
Â 12 to 48 units                                    Â 1,000,000.00
Â More than 48 units                                Â 2,000,000.00
                                                    Â Â 
For a vacant manufacturing, industrial, storage, or Â 2,000,000.00
nonresidential commercial building
Â 
The director may waive or reduce the required amount of liability insurance in
the director's discretion. (Ord. 10-28, 5-3-2010)
4-13-7: VACANT BUILDING PLAN:
At the time a building is registered as required herein, the owner shall submit
a vacant building plan. The director may prescribe a form for the plan. If the
owner fails to submit the plan as provided for by this section, the director
may determine the plan. The plan shall contain the following as a minimum:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â A plan of action to repair any doors, windows, or other openings which
are boarded up or otherwise secured by any means other than conventional
methods used in the design of the building or permitted for new construction or
similar type. The proposed repair shall result in openings being secured by
conventional methods used in the design of the building or by methods permitted
for new construction of similar type with board removed. The owner shall
maintain the building in an enclosed and secure state until the building is
reoccupied or made available for immediate occupancy. If the owner demonstrates
that securing of the building will provide adequate protection to the public,
the director may waive the requirement of an enclosure.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â For buildings and premises thereof that the director determines as
being or containing public nuisances, as defined in this code, then the vacant
building plan shall contain a plan of action to remedy such public nuisance(s).
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â A time schedule identifying a date of commencement of repair and date
of completion of repair for each improperly secured opening and nuisance
identified by the director.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â When the owner proposes to demolish the vacant building, then the owner
shall submit a plan and time schedule for such demolition.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â A plan of action to maintain the building and premises thereof in
conformance with this chapter.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â A plan of action, with a time schedule, identifying the date the
building will be habitable and occupied or offered for occupancy or sale. The
time schedule shall include date(s) of commencement and completion of all
action required to achieve habitability and shall be based on the time period
as determined by the director, to achieve such compliance.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â All premises upon which unoccupied or vacant buildings are located and
the exteriors shall at all times be maintained in compliance with this code.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Exterior lighting according to standards established by the director.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â On written notice of the director, provide bonded, licensed, and
insured security guard service at the building between the hours of three
o'clock (3:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. Such service to remain in
place until the director gives written notice that the service is no longer
required. Such service shall be required when the director makes a written
determination that the vacant building constitutes a fire hazard, is otherwise
dangerous to human life or the public welfare, involves illegal or improper
use, occupancy, or maintenance, under such conditions that boarding and
securing the building are insufficient to prevent the actual or threatened
harm.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Affixed to any building which is boarded, a sign, no smaller than two
feet by two feet (2' x 2') and compliant with the village's sign ordinance,
title 9, chapter 8A of this code, and providing the following information: the
name, address, and telephone number of the owner, and in addition, for
buildings that are the subject of a foreclosure action, the name, address, and
telephone number of the plaintiff and the plaintiff's attorney, if any, in the
foreclosure action. The sign must be placed so that its message is legible from
the public way. (Ord. 10-28, 5-3-2010)
4-13-8: APPROVAL OF PLAN:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The director shall review the proposed vacant building plan in
accordance with the standards below. The director shall send notice to the
owner of the vacant building of the director's determination.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â In considering the appropriateness of a vacant building plan, the
director shall include the following standards in his or her consideration and
shall make written findings as to each:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The purposes of this chapter and intent of the village board to
minimize the time a building is boarded or otherwise vacant.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The effect of the building and the proposed plan on adjoining
property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The length of time the building has been vacant.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The presence of any public nuisances on the property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The likelihood that the plan or portion(s) thereof will prevent or
ameliorate the condition it is designed to address. (Ord. 10-28, 5-3-2010)
4-13-9: MODIFY VACANT BUILDING PLAN:
The director shall, upon notice to the vacant building owner, have the right to
modify the vacant building plan by modifying the dates of performance, the
proposed methods of action, or by imposing additional requirements consistent
with this chapter that the director deems necessary to protect the public
health, safety, or welfare. (Ord. 10-28, 5-3-2010)
4-13-10: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH PLAN:
Failure to have an approved plan within thirty (30) days of filing the
registration form or failure to comply with the approved plan shall constitute
a violation of this chapter subjecting the owner of the building to penalties
as provided in this chapter and to any remedies the village may avail itself of
as provided for herein and elsewhere in this code or by Illinois law,
including, but limited to, an action to compel correction of property
maintenance violations and/or the correction of property maintenance violations
by the village, and/or its designees, with the owner being liable for any and
all fees for such action. (Ord. 10-28, 5-3-2010)
4-13-11: OTHER ENFORCEMENT:
The registration of a vacant building shall not preclude action by the village
to demolish or to take other action against the building pursuant to other
provisions of this chapter, this code or 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-31-
1. This shall also include the right of the village to secure and take remedial
actions to the building and the premises when it is in the best interest of the
public safety and welfare. (Ord. 10-28, 5-3-2010)
4-13-12: CERTIFICATION:
A certificate of code compliance for vacant buildings issued by the building
department, and payment in full of all fines and fees imposed pursuant to this
chapter are required prior to any occupancy of a vacant building. (Ord. 10-28,
5-3-2010)
4-13-13: TIME RESTRICTIONS:
It is the policy of the village that boarding is a temporary solution to
prevent unauthorized entry into a vacant building and that boarded buildings
are a public nuisance. A vacant building may not remain boarded longer than
fourteen (14) days unless an extension of that time is part of a plan approved
by the director. (Ord. 10-28, 5-3-2010)
4-13-14: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any person found to have violated any provision of this chapter shall
be subject to the general penalty of this code, in addition to any other legal
or equitable remedies available to the village. Such other remedies include,
but are not limited to, injunctive relief, application to a court of competent
jurisdiction for a receiver, demolition, or condemnation, contracting for the
repair or purchase of the premises, or foreclosure of any lien the village may
have thereon. Any expenses incurred by the village as enumerated above shall be
assessed against the building, and shall serve as a lien on the property.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â A separate and distinct offense shall be committed each day on which
such person or persons shall violate the provisions of this chapter.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The village may enforce this chapter in a system of administrative
adjudication or through the circuit court of Cook County.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Nothing herein contained shall prohibit the village from immediately
condemning, as provided for in this code, a building, or taking other immediate
action upon a determination that the building is a public nuisance or poses an
imminent danger to the occupants of the building, or the public health, safety
and welfare. (Ord. 10-28, 5-3-2010)
4-13-15: SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL; REGISTRATION AND RENEWAL FEE:
The registration and renewal fee for each registered single- family residential
building shall be two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), the "base registration
fee". Provided however that the owner shall be charged a fee of five hundred
dollars ($500.00) on the subsequent renewal periods in which any vacant
residential, single-family building is in violation of any provision of this
code. However, if the owner of a single-family residential building can show to
the satisfaction of the director at the time of renewal that the building is in
full compliance with this code then such renewal shall revert to the base
registration fee. (Ord. 10-28, 5-3-2010)
4-13-16: MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL OR COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS; REGISTRATION AND
RENEWAL FEE:
The registration and renewal fee for each registered multi-family residential
or commercial building shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00), the "base
registration fee". Provided however that the owner shall be charged a fee of
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) on the subsequent renewal periods in which any
vacant multi- family residential or commercial building is in violation of any
provision of this code. However, if the owner of a multi-family residential or
commercial building can show to the satisfaction of the director at the time of
renewal that the building is in full compliance with this code then such
renewal shall revert to the base registration fee. (Ord. 10-28, 5-3-2010)
4-13-17: INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS; REGISTRATION AND RENEWAL FEE:
The registration and renewal fee for each registered industrial building shall
be one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), the "base registration fee". Provided
however that the owner shall be charged a fee of two thousand dollars
($2,000.00) on the subsequent renewal periods in which any vacant industrial
building is in violation of any provision of this code. If the owner of an
industrial building can show to the satisfaction of the director at the time
renewal is required that the building is in full compliance with this code then
such renewal shall revert to the base registration fee. (Ord. 10-28, 5-3-2010)
CHAPTER 14
LIENS
SECTION:
4-14-1: Notice Of Lien
4-14-2: Priority Lien
4-14-1: NOTICE OF LIEN:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Removal Cost: If the village elects to incur a removal cost under this
title, then that cost is a lien upon the underlying parcel. To perfect such a
lien, the village must, within one year after the removal cost is incurred,
file notice of lien in the office of the recorder in Cook County. The notice
must consist of a sworn statement setting out: 1) a description of the
underlying parcel that sufficiently identifies the parcel; 2) the amount of the
removal cost; and 3) the date or dates when the removal cost was incurred by
the village. If, for any one parcel, the village engaged in any removal
activity on more than one occasion during the course of one year, then the
village may combine any or all of the costs of each of those activities into a
single notice of lien.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Notice: The removal cost is not a lien on the underlying parcel unless
a notice is personally served on, or sent by certified mail to, the person to
whom was sent the tax bill for the general taxes on the property for the
taxable year immediately preceding the removal activities. The notice must be
delivered or sent after the removal activities have been performed, and it
must: 1) state the substance of this chapter; and 2) identify the underlying
parcel, by common description; and 3) describe the removal activity.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Payment Of The Lien Cost: Upon payment of the lien cost by the owner of
the underlying parcel, after notice of lien has been filed, the village (or its
agent) shall release the lien, and the release may be filed of record by the
owner at his or her sole expense as in the case of filing notice of lien.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Illinois Municipal Code: The provisions of the Illinois municipal code,
specifically section 11-20-15, shall be followed and shall apply to all liens
filed hereunder.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Foreclosure Of Lien: Subsequent to the filing of the above described
lien, the village may cause to be filed a complaint for foreclosure of such
lien, or upon becoming a defendant in a pending lawsuit affecting the premises
or real estate, by answer to the complaint or in the nature of an intervening
petition or cross complaint, the village may proceed in its corporate name to
foreclose such lien. An action to foreclose a lien under this title must be
commenced within two (2) years after the date of filing notice of lien. The
property subject to a lien arising under this chapter shall be sold for
nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied to pay
the monies owing the village. (Ord. 13-36, 5-20-2013)
4-14-2: PRIORITY LIEN:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Priority Lien: The priority lien procedure described in this section
shall apply only to costs incurred for activities performed on abandoned
residential properties, as defined in chapter 13, "Vacant Property", of this
title and is an alternative to the traditional lien authorized by section
4-14-1 of this chapter. If a bill sent pursuant to section
4-14-1 of this chapter is not paid in full within thirty (30) days of the date
of the bill, the village shall have the authority to file and record a priority
lien against the property, pursuant to section 11-20-15.1 of the Illinois
municipal code, 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-15.1, in the following
manner:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Notice Of Lien: The village or the person performing the service by
authority of the village, in its, his or her own name, may file a notice of a
priority lien in the office of the recorder of deeds in the county in which the
real estate is located. The notice of lien shall be filed within one year after
the cost and expense is incurred. If, for any one property, the village engaged
in any nuisance abatement activity described in section 98.03 on more than one
occasion during the course of one year, then the village may combine any or all
of the costs of those activities into a single notice of lien.
The notice of lien shall consist of a sworn statement setting forth:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â A description of the abandoned residential property that
sufficiently describes the parcel;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The amount of the cost incurred or payable for the activities;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The date or dates when such cost was incurred by the village or
someone working on behalf of the village; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â A statement that the lien has been filed pursuant to one or more
of the property maintenance activities described in section 98.03 and
authorized by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-20-7(d), 5/11-20-8(d), 5/11-
20-12(d), 5/11-20-13(e), 5/11-31-1.01, as applicable.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Sent By Certified Mail: After recording, the notice of lien shall be
sent by certified mail to the property owner, his agent or legal representative
or occupant in legal possession or control of the premises and, if different,
to the person who received the tax bill for the preceding year.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Remedial Actions: The village may not file a lien if the lender has
provided notice to the village that the lender has performed, or will perform,
remedial actions; provided, however, that the remedial actions must be
performed or initiated in good faith, within thirty (30) days of the lender's
notice to the village.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Recordkeeping: To enforce a lien pursuant to this section, the village
must maintain contemporaneous records that include, at a minimum:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Dated statement of a finding by the village that the property has
become abandoned residential property;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The date when the property was first observed to be unoccupied by
any lawful occupant;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A description of the actions taken by the village to contact the
legal owner of the property, or if known, any agent of the owner;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â A statement that no contacts were made with the legal owner or, if
known, any agent of the owner;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â A dated certification by a village official of the necessity and
specific nature of the work performed;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â A copy of the agreement with the person or company performing the
work and the rates and estimated cost of the work, if applicable;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Detailed invoices and payment vouchers for the work;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â A statement whether the work was competitively bid, and if so, a
copy of all proposals submitted by the bidders.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Release Of Lien: Upon payment of the cost after the notice of lien has
been filed as provided herein, the lien shall be released by the village or
person in whose name the lien has been filed, and the release shall be recorded
of record in the same manner as recording the notice of lien.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Enforcement Of Lien: A lien under this section is enforceable by the
village, or entity or person who performs work on behalf of the village, at the
hearing for confirmation of the foreclosure sale of the abandoned residential
property and is limited to a claim of interest in the proceeds of the sale. The
priority lien is superior to all other liens and encumbrances, except tax
liens. (Ord. 13-36, 5-20-2013)
CHAPTER 15
NOISE
SECTION:
4-15-1: Declaration Of Policy
4-15-2: Definitions
4-15-3: Unlawful Noise
4-15-4: Specific Limitations
4-15-5: Amplified Sound - Motor Vehicles
4-15-6: Emergency Signaling Devices
4-15-7: Mufflers
4-15-8: Schools; Libraries; Churches; Nursing Homes And Hospitals
4-15-9: Exemptions
4-15-10: Authorized Complainants
4-15-11: Violation; Penalty
4-15-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
It is hereby declared that the making, creation or maintenance of excessive,
loud, raucous or unnecessary noise within the Village affects and endangers the
public health, comfort, convenience, safety, and welfare of the people of the
Village. The provisions and prohibitions hereinafter contained are enacted for
the purpose of securing and promoting the public health, safety, and welfare of
the Village and its residents. (Ord. 2014-65, 11-3-2014)
4-15-2: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words and terms used in this chapter are hereby defined as follows:
Â 
                                        An occurrence of a set of circumstances
EMERGENCY:                              involving actual or imminent physical
                                        trauma or property damage demanding
                                        immediate attention.
                                        Any work performed for the purpose of
                                        preventing or alleviating physical
EMERGENCY WORK:                         trauma or property damage, whether
                                        actual or threatened by an emergency,
                                        or work by public or private utilities
                                        when restoring utility service.
                                        Any noise which unreasonably disturbs,
                                        injures or endangers the comfort,
                                        repose, health, peace, or safety of
EXCESSIVE, LOUD, RAUCOUS OR UNNECESSARY reasonable persons of ordinary
NOISE:                                  sensitivity; or any noise which is so
                                        harsh, prolonged, unnatural, or unusual
                                        in time or place as to occasion
                                        unreasonable discomfort to any person.
                                        Any sound that can be detected by a
                                        person using his or her hearing
                                        faculties, unaided by any mechanical
                                        device such as a hearing aid. For a
                                        sound to be plainly audible, it is not
                                        required that particular words or
PLAINLY AUDIBLE:                        phrases are determinable or that the
                                        name, artist or type of instrument
                                        producing the sound can be determined.
                                        The detection of any rhythmic bass or
                                        reverberating type of sound is
                                        sufficient to constitute a plainly
                                        audible sound.
                                        Either (a) the boundary line of a
                                        parcel of real estate; (b) the vertical
                                        and horizontal boundary of a dwelling
                                        unit that is part of a multi-family
PROPERTY LINE:                          dwelling unit; or (c) on a mixed use
                                        property, the interface between the two
                                        (2) portions of the property on which
                                        different categories of activity are
                                        being performed.
                                        Any real property which contains a
                                        building constructed for a residential
                                        purpose or in which one or more persons
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY:                   reside, provided that the building is
                                        property zoned or is legally
                                        nonconforming for residential use
                                        within the Village.
                                        Any loudspeaker, amplifier, stereo,
                                        radio, television, tape recorder,
                                        compact disc player, DVD player,
SOUND AMPLIFICATION DEVICE:             portable media player, or any other
                                        device or system by which sounds may be
                                        enhanced or magnified. (Ord. 2014-65,
                                        11-3-2014)
Â 
4-15-3: UNLAWFUL NOISE:
It is unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any person within the
Village to make, continue, or cause to be made or continued, any excessive,
loud, raucous or unnecessary noise within the limits of the Village. (Ord.
2014-65, 11-3-2014)
4-15-4: SPECIFIC LIMITATIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, acts declared to be excessive, loud, raucous
or unnecessary noises include, but are not limited to, the following:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Instruments And Sound Amplification Devices: The playing, using,
operating or permitting to be played, used or operated of any musical
instrument or sound amplification device, or combination thereof, played or
operated in such a manner as to disturb the peace, quiet comfort and repose of
the neighboring inhabitants or at more volume than is necessary for the
convenient hearing for the person or persons who are in the room, chamber,
vehicle or outdoor area, within the Village limits, in which or where such
instrument or sound amplification device is played, used or operated and who
are voluntary listeners thereto. The playing, use or operation of any such
instrument or sound amplification device between the hours of ten o'clock (10:
00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. in such manner as to be plainly audible
for a continuous period of one minute or more at a distance of seventy five
feet (75') from the location of such instrument or sound amplification device
shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Yelling, Shouting, And Similar Activities: Yelling, shouting, hooting,
whistling or singing in the public parks, parkways and streets of the Village,
particularly between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and eight o'clock
(8:00) A.M., or at any other time or place so as to annoy or disturb the peace,
quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any office, business establishment,
dwelling or residence or of any person in the vicinity within the limits of the
Village.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Advertising Noise Or Attention: The playing, using, operating or
permitting to be played, used or operated of any instrument or sound
amplification device which is cast upon the public streets, parks and parkways
of the Village for the purpose of commercial advertising or of attracting the
attention of the public to any building or structure, except when a permit has
first been procured from the proper Village authorities.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Animals: The keeping of any animal within any yard, house, enclosure,
garage or other place within the Village, which by frequent or long continued
barking, howling, crying, singing or other noise shall disturb the peace,
quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any neighboring dwelling or residence or
of persons in the vicinity within the limits of the Village.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Construction; Landscaping: The conduct of any outside construction,
excavation, demolition, alteration or repair work, or landscaping activities
other than between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:
00) P.M. on week days, and between nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:
00) P.M. on weekends, except in case of urgent necessity in the interest of
public health and safety, and then only with the written permission of the
Building Director, which permit may be granted for a period not to exceed three
(3) days or less while the emergency continues. The permit may be renewed for
periods of three (3) days or less while the emergency continues. The Building
Director should, in making a determination regarding such a permit request that
the permittee will suffer loss or inconvenience in the absence of such a
permit, that the public health and safety necessitate such work, and that the
noise generated during the hours requested will not negatively impact or impair
persons or businesses in the vicinity.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Exhausts: The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam
engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motorboat or motor vehicle
except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises therefrom.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Blowers And Generators: The use or operation of any noise creating
blower, power fan, or internal combustion generator within twenty five feet
(25') of any residential property between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00)
P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Defect In Vehicle Or Load: The use of any automobile, truck, cart,
trailer, motorcycle or other vehicle, so out of repair or loaded in such a
manner or with material of such nature so as to create loud, excessive or
unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noises.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Loading/Unloading: Causing, allowing or permitting the loading,
unloading, opening or handling of boxes, crates. containers, garbage cans or
recyclable containers between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. and seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. daily when such operations are conducted on a property
within the Village located within seventy five feet (75') of any residential
property within the Village, measured from the property line of the residential
property.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Drums: The use of any drum or similar instrument or device for the
purpose of attracting attention, by the creation of noise, to any place of
business, entertainment or public assembly.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Horns And Signaling Devices: The use or operation of any horn or
signaling device on any motor vehicle within the Village, except as a danger
warning or in an emergency. No person shall use or operate any horn or
signaling device operated by an engine exhaust or for the purpose of attempting
to increase traffic flow or move traffic in any manner. (Ord. 2014-65, 11-3-
2014)
4-15-5: AMPLIFIED SOUND - MOTOR VEHICLES:
No person shall cause, allow or permit the operation of any sound amplification
device, including but not limited to a radio, loudspeaker or stereo, from any
motor vehicle which is plainly audible outside the vehicle at a distance of
seventy five feet (75') or more from the motor vehicle. This provision shall
not apply to any sound amplification device being operated by an authorized
emergency vehicle. (Ord. 2014-65, 11-3-2014)
4-15-6: EMERGENCY SIGNALING DEVICES:
No person shall sound, allow or permit the sounding outdoors of any emergency
signaling device, including fire, burglar, civil defense alarm, siren, whistle,
or similar emergency signaling device except in an emergency or as a permitted
test as specified herein. Permitted testing of an emergency signaling device
may only occur between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and seven o'clock
(7:00) P.M. Any testing shall use only the minimum cycle test time for the
emergency signaling device, but in no event shall the test time exceed five (5)
minutes. (Ord. 2014-65, 11-3-2014)
4-15-7: MUFFLERS:
No person shall operate a motor vehicle within the Village that is not equipped
with an adequate muffler or exhaust system in constant operation and properly
maintained to prevent any excessive or unusual noise. No person shall operate a
motor vehicle with a muffler or exhaust system modified with a cutout bypass or
similar device. (Ord. 2014-65, 11-3-2014)
4-15-8: SCHOOLS; LIBRARIES; CHURCHES; NURSING HOMES AND HOSPITALS:
No person shall cause, make or assist in the making of any noise or diversion
which disturbs or tends to disturb the peace or good order or interferes with
operation of any school, library, church, nursing home or hospital within the
Village. (Ord. 2014-65, 11-3-2014)
4-15-9: EXEMPTIONS:
Sounds caused by the following are exempt from the prohibitions contained in
this chapter:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Utility Repairs: Repairs of utility structures that pose a clear and
immediate danger to life or safety.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Emergency Vehicles: Sirens, whistles or bells lawfully used by
emergency vehicles.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Emergency Signals: The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting
persons to the existence of an emergency or in the performance of emergency
work.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Repairs: Repairs or excavations of bridges, streets or highways, or
utilities by or on behalf of the Village, Cook County, the State of Illinois or
the United States government between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. and
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., when the public welfare and convenience renders it
impractical to perform the work during hours otherwise allowed by ordinance.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Parades And Public Events: Parades and public events, provided that
such events are Village-sponsored or a permit has been obtained from the
appropriate permitting authority.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Power Outages: Internal combustion engines when used during power
outages to generate electricity, prevent freezing or to prevent flooding. (Ord.
2014-65, 11-3-2014)
4-15-10: AUTHORIZED COMPLAINANTS:
Any person witnessing a violation of the provisions of this chapter, including
a police officer, is authorized to be a complainant on any complaint, citation
or other notice of violation issued under this chapter. (Ord. 2014-65, 11-3-
2014)
4-15-11: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating or being liable under any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be fined not less than seventy five dollars
($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for a first
violation within the past twelve (12) months, not less than one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for a
second violation within the past twelve (12) months, and not less than three
hundred dollars ($300.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
for a third or subsequent offense within the past twelve (12) months. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed with each recurrence of a violation
of the noise disturbance provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2014-65, 11-3-2014)
CHAPTER 16
PUBLIC CAMPING PROHIBITION AND RELATED ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
4-16-1: Public Camping As A Nuisance
4-16-2: Regulation Of Public Camping Necessary To Promote Public Health
4-16-3: Public Camping Not Intended Use Of Public Property
4-16-4: Definitions
4-16-5: Public Camping Prohibited
4-16-6: Exceptions To Prohibition
4-16-7: Removal Of Campsite
4-16-8: Disposition And Release Of Personal Property
4-16-9: Penalty; Mitigation
4-16-1: PUBLIC CAMPING AS A NUISANCE:
Public Camping, as the term is defined herein, is hereby declared to be a
nuisance within the Village for the reasons identified above.
(Ord. CO-2024-11, 8-5-2024)
4-16-2: REGULATION OF PUBLIC CAMPING NECESSARY TO PROMOTE PUBLIC HEALTH:
In an effort to address the public health concerns identified above, the
President and Board of Trustees of the Village of Broadview hereby declare it
necessary or expedient for the promotion of health or the suppression of
diseases, to regulate public camping, as that term is defined herein, within
the Village's corporate limits.
(Ord. CO-2024-11, 8-5-2024)
4-16-3: PUBLIC CAMPING NOT INTENDED USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:
Except for those parcels of property specifically designated by the Village in
any subsequent ordinance, the Village hereby declares that none of its property
is permitted nor intended to be used for public camping, as the term is defined
herein.
(Ord. CO-2024-11, 8-5-2024)
4-16-4: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions apply to this chapter:
Â 
BEDDING:                  A sleeping bag, or any other material, used for
                          bedding purposes.
                          Any physical space that is not within an established
                          structure, where bedding or any stove or fire is
                          placed, established or maintained for the purpose of
CAMPSITE:                 maintaining a temporary place to live, whether or not
                          such place incorporates the use of any tent, lean-to,
                          shack or any other structure, or any vehicle or part
                          thereof.
                          Items which would otherwise constitute personal
                          property under the terms of this chapter, but which
                          (i) has no apparent utility or monetary value; (ii)
                          personal property which is unsanitary to store or
                          otherwise maintain; (iii) any weapon possessed
EXEMPT PERSONAL PROPERTY: illegally; (iv) drug paraphernalia; (v) items
                          appearing to be stolen or otherwise appearing to be
                          evidence of a crime; (vi) items which the person
                          cannot demonstrate the requisite lawful authority to
                          possess; and, (vii) any items of food which can
                          reasonably be expected to spoil or otherwise perish
                          within the next thirty (30) days.
                          Any item reasonably recognizable as belonging to a
PERSONAL PROPERTY:        person and having apparent utility or monetary value,
                          except for exempt personal property.
PUBLIC CAMPING:           To cause or participate in the establishment of, or
                          the act of remaining in or at, a campsite.
Â 
(Ord. CO-2024-11, 8-5-2024)
4-16-5: PUBLIC CAMPING PROHIBITED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in public camping, on a
public sidewalk, street, alley, lane, other public right-of-way, park, bench,
or any other publicly-owned property, nor on or under any bridge or viaduct, at
any time.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in public camping, in any
pedestrian or vehicular entrance to public or private property abutting a
public right-of-way.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â No person may sleep, nor otherwise engage in public camping, on any
real property owned or otherwise maintained by the Village.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â No person may park a vehicle overnight within the Village for the
purpose of sleeping or otherwise engaging in public camping in said vehicle.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â For the purposes of this section, the act of parking or leaving a
vehicle parked for two (2) consecutive hours, and/or remaining within a public
vehicle on any property under the jurisdiction of the Village for the purpose
of public camping, for two (2) consecutive hours without permission from the
President and Board of Trustees of the Village of Broadview, between the hours
of midnight (12:00) and six (6:00) A.M., shall be considered a violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. CO-2024-11, 8-5-2024)
4-16-6: EXCEPTIONS TO PROHIBITION:
Notwithstanding the foregoing, it shall not be a violation to engage in public
camping when done (i) in a manner specifically authorized by this Code; (ii)
after a formal declaration of the Village in emergency circumstances; or, (iii)
upon resolution of the President and Board of Trustees of the Village of
Broadview, the same may exempt a special event from the prohibitions of this
section, if the President and Board of Trustees of the Village of Broadview
finds such exemption to be in the public interest and consistent with the goals
and objectives of the President and Board of Trustees of the Village of
Broadview, and with such conditions imposed as the President and Board of
Trustees of the Village of Broadview deems necessary. Any conditions imposed
will include a condition requiring that the applicant provide evidence of
adequate insurance coverage and agree to indemnify the Village for any
liability, damage or expense incurred by the Village as a result of the
activities of the applicant. Any findings by the President and Board of
Trustees of the Village of Broadview shall specify the exact dates and location
covered by the exemption.
(Ord. CO-2024-11, 8-5-2024)
4-16-7: REMOVAL OF CAMPSITE:
Removal of a campsite in violation of this chapter may occur under the
following circumstances:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Prior to removing a campsite, the Village shall post a notice, twenty-
four (24) hours in advance of the removal, unless immediate removal of the
campsite is deemed to be necessary for one of the reasons in subparagraphs 1-4,
below. If such immediate removal is undertaken, the basis for causing the
immediate removal of such campsite should be adequately documented by the
appropriate person(s).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Immediate removal of the campsite is necessary to maintain access to
a property;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Immediate removal of the campsite is necessary to maintain the
sanitary condition of a property;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Immediate removal of the campsite is necessary because the campsite
is an obstruction to any public right-of-way; or,
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Immediate removal of the campsite is necessary because the campsite
poses a risk to the health and safety of the Village and its residents.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Upon any action pursuant to Section A, above, the person causing such
action to be taken shall inform an appropriate agency delivering social
services to homeless individuals in the Village, of the location of the
campsite and the persons found to be in violation of this chapter, so said
agency may determine whether or not it would be appropriate to offer its
services to those persons.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â If a twenty-four (24) hour notice has been posted, and the twenty-four
(24) hour notice period has passed, then the campsite, as well as all personal
property thereon, shall be removed by the appropriate person(s) acting on
behalf of the Village.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â No portion of this Section shall be construed to prohibit any person
found to be engaging in public camping from removing their personal property
from the campsite; however, such personal property that constitutes exempt
personal property and which a reasonably prudent law enforcement officer,
exercising the applicable constitutional standard, would conclude that said
exempt personal property constitutes items appearing to be stolen or otherwise
appearing to be evidence of a crime, and/or items which the person cannot
demonstrate the requisite lawful authority to possess, may be retained and
stored as evidence.
(Ord. 2024-11, 8-5-2024)
4-16-8: DISPOSITION AND RELEASE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â All personal property removed from any campsite which is not exempt
personal property shall be stored by the appropriate law enforcement agency of
the Village, for a minimum of thirty (30) days, during which time it shall be
reasonably available for and released to an individual confirming ownership.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â All exempt personal property may be disposed of or retained as evidence
by the appropriate law enforcement agency of the Village.
(Ord. CO-2024-11, 8-5-2024)
4-16-9: PENALTY; MITIGATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The penalty for any person's first violation of this chapter within a
rolling twenty-four (24) month period shall be seventy-five dollars ($75).
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The penalty for any person's second violation of this chapter within a
rolling twenty-four (24) month period shall be one hundred fifty dollars
($150).
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The penalty for any person's third violation of this chapter within a
rolling twenty-four (24) month period shall be three hundred fifty dollars
($350).
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The penalty for any person's' fourth violation of this chapter within a
rolling twenty-four (24) month period shall be five hundred dollars ($500).
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â The penalty for any person's fifth violation of this chapter within a
rolling twenty-four (24) month period shall be seven hundred fifty dollars
($750);
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â The penalty for any person's sixth or subsequent violation of this
chapter within a rolling twenty-four (24) month period may be a monetary
penalty of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750) or incarceration for a period not
exceeding the maximum time allowed pursuant to Section 1-2-9 of the Illinois
Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/1-2-9).
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â As a substitute for any monetary penalty assessed pursuant to
paragraphs A-F, above, and if consented to by the Village, the penalty assessed
to any person found in violation of this chapter may be that said person must
engage in public service by cleaning the rights-of-way and other public
facilities of the Village for an amount of time that, if the person found to
have violated this chapter was being paid the minimum wage under Illinois law,
the amount paid for that person's labors would have been equal to the monetary
penalty assessed under this section.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â The Village is hereby empowered to exercise all powers afforded to it,
at law or in equity, to collect any fines assessed against a person pursuant to
this chapter, including but not limited to seeking incarceration of said person
for a period of time that conforms with Section 1-2-9 of the Illinois Municipal
Code (65 ILCS 5/1-2-9).
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â In the imposition of any penalty pursuant to this Section, the penalty
shall be mitigated by whether or not the person immediately removed all
personal property and litter, including but not limited to bottles, cans, and
garbage, from the campsite after the person was informed that the person was in
violation of this chapter.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â A separate offense of this section shall be deemed committed on each
day on which a violation occurs or continues.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â In addition to any other remedy provided by law or this chapter, any
person found in violation of this section may be immediately removed from the
premises where the campsite is located.
(Ord. CO-2024-11, 8-5-2024)
TITLE 5
FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Department Created
5-1-2: Fire Chief
5-1-3: Composition Of Department
5-1-4: Bureau Of Fire Prevention
5-1-5: Fire Protection Training
5-1-6: Powers And Duties Of Members
5-1-7: Compensation
5-1-8: Firefighters' Pension Fund
5-1-9: Badge Issued
5-1-10: Firefighters To Obey Orders
5-1-11: Equipment
5-1-11-1: Rescue Trucks
5-1-11-2: Ambulance User Fee
5-1-11-3: Reserved
5-1-11-4: Responsibility For Payment
5-1-11-5: Mutual Aid Calls
5-1-11-6: Effective Date
5-1-11-7: Engine And Crew Fees
5-1-12: Applicability Of Provisions
5-1-13: Notice Of Privacy Practices
5-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
A department to be hereafter known as the Broadview Fire Department, the object
of which shall be the prevention and extinguishment of fire and the protection
of life and property within the limits of the Village, is hereby created. (1987
Code)
5-1-2: FIRE CHIEF:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Chief: The Fire Department shall be headed by a Chief, who shall be the
Administrator, and shall be appointed by the President with the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees. The Chief shall be technically qualified by
training and experience and shall have the ability to command men and hold
their respect and confidence. The Chief shall reside in the Village. He may be
removed from office by the President as provided by statute. (Ord. 87-5, 7-20-
1987)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Powers And Duties:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Generally: The Fire Chief shall have control, subject to the order
and direction of the Board of Trustees, of the Fire Department and of all fire
apparatus belonging to the Village. Whenever any fire apparatus needs
repairing, the Fire Chief shall cause same to be done without delay. The Chief
shall be held accountable to the President and Board of Trustees only and shall
make written and verbal reports thereto as the President and Board of Trustees
may require. All other department companies and officers shall be accountable
to the Chief.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Formulate Rules And Regulations: The Chief shall formulate a set of
rules and regulations to govern the department, which rules and regulations
shall be in conformity with the rules and regulations of the Board of Fire and
Police Commissioners 1 , and shall be responsible to the President and Board of
Trustees for the personnel, morale and general efficiency of the department.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Determine Department Composition: The Fire Chief shall determine the
number and kind of divisions, platoons and companies of which the Fire
Department is to be composed and shall determine the response of such platoons
and companies.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Conduct Monthly Drills: The Fire Chief shall, at least once a month,
conduct suitable drills or instructions in the operation and handling of
equipment, first aid, rescue work, salvage, a study of buildings in the
Village, fire prevention, water supplies and all other matters considered
essential to good firemanship and safety of life and property from fire.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Records: The Fire Chief shall see that complete records are kept on
all fires, inspections, apparatus and minor equipment, personnel and other
information about the work of the department.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Reports:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The Fire Chief shall submit a monthly report to the President and
Board of Trustees containing a statistical analysis of the activities of the
Firefighting Division, Training Division, Fire Prevention Bureau, Mechanical
Division and Personnel Division of the department.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The Fire Chief shall make a complete annual report to the
President and Board of Trustees within one month after the close of the fiscal
year. Such report shall include the information specified in subsection B6a of
this section together with comparative data for previous years and
recommendations for improving the effectiveness of the department. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 1 of this Code.
5-1-3: COMPOSITION OF DEPARTMENT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Officers And Members:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Department Members: A Deputy Chief, three (3) Captains, three (3)
Lieutenants and such additional members of the Fire Department as may from time
to time be prescribed by the Chief and approved by the President and Board of
Trustees shall constitute the remainder of the department and they shall
function as provided by the rules and regulations of the Fire Department.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Paid On-Call Firefighter:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Number Recommended By Chief: The department may be supplemented
by "paid on-call firefighters", the number of which may be recommended by the
Chief with the approval of the President and Board of Trustees.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Membership; Appointment; Removal; Obedience To Orders: The
membership of the "paid on-call firefighters" shall consist of such persons as
may be appointed by the Chief with the approval of the President and Board of
Trustees. Appointments shall be made by the Chief only after a medical and
physical examination and such other examination as prescribed by the Chief and
President and Board of Trustees. Any member of the department who is a "paid
on-call firefighter" may be suspended or discharged from the department by the
Chief at any time he may deem such action necessary for the good of the
department. Any member of the department who is a "paid on-call firefighter" in
attendance at a fire and who shall neglect or refuse to obey the orders of the
officer in command at the fire, shall be subject to immediate dismissal. (Ord.
87-5, 7-20-1987)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Inspectors: The Fire Chief may detail such members of the Fire
Department as inspectors as shall from time to time be necessary only after the
approval of the President. The Fire Chief shall recommend to the Village the
employment of technical inspectors who, when such authorization is made, shall
be selected through an examination to determine their fitness for the position.
The examination shall be open to members and nonmembers of the Fire Department,
and appointments made after examination shall be for an indefinite term with
removal only for cause. (1987 Code)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Fire Department Organization: The Fire Department may have a social
organization approved by the Fire Chief and the President and Board of Trustees
and may hold such meetings and engage in such social functions and community
activities as the rules provide. Officers of the organization may be elected by
members of the department, and shall include a Secretary and Treasurer and the
officers shall make such rules and regulations as may be necessary. In the
event foreign fire insurance sums are received by the Fire Department, the
Treasurer shall give a sufficient bond to the Village. Any monies so received
shall be used only as provided by statute. (Ord. 87-5, 7-20-1987)
5-1-4: BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Bureau Established: The Bureau of Fire Prevention in the Fire
Department is hereby established and shall be operated under the supervision of
the Chief of the Fire Department. (1987 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Annual Report: A report of the Bureau of Fire Prevention shall be made
annually and transmitted to the Chief Executive Officer of the Municipality. It
shall contain all proceedings under the Fire Code 1 , with such statistics as
the Chief of the Fire Department may wish to include therein. (1987 Code; amd.
Ord. 2018-33, 12-17-2018)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Chief Enforcement Officer: The Chief Enforcement Officer of the Fire
Code shall be a current sworn member of the Fire Department who shall be
appointed by the Fire Chief and who shall serve until a successor is appointed.
The Chief Enforcement Officer shall be under the supervision and control of the
Fire Chief and shall perform, in addition to the regular firefighting duties
which may be assigned, all duties required of the officer under the provisions
of the Fire Code and the ordinances of the Village. (Ord. 89-11, 8-7-1989; amd.
Ord. 2018-33, 12-17-2018)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 2 of this title.
5-1-5: FIRE PROTECTION TRAINING:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Village To Participate In State Programs: The Village hereby elects to
participate in the programs provided for in the Illinois Fire Protection
Training Act 2 .
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Certification Required: Before an individual may commence regular full-
time employment as a firefighter, he must have been certified by the Illinois
State Fire Marshal as a firefighter II and as having successfully completed an
approved training course as provided in said Act. Except for part-time
personnel, the firefighter II training must be completed by the trainee within
his probationary period.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Incorporation Into Rules And Regulations: The Board of Fire and Police
Commissioners is hereby instructed and directed to make the necessary
amendments to the Personnel Rules, the Manual of Rules of the Broadview Fire
Department and rules of said Board of Fire and Police Commissioners in order to
require that any person appointed to the Fire Department of the Village shall
not become a regular member of the said department unless and until he shall
complete, pursuant to said Illinois Fire Protection and Training Act, the
approved training course within twelve (12) months of the date of his initial
employment. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
2 2. 50 ILCS 740/1 et seq.
5-1-6: POWERS AND DUTIES OF MEMBERS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Fire Prevention Duties: It shall be the function and duty of the Fire
Department and every member thereof to extinguish accidental or destructive
fires and to prevent the occurrence or spread of such fires.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Police Powers: All regularly appointed members of the department are
hereby given the necessary special police powers for the purpose of enforcing
the provisions of this title. (1987 Code)
5-1-7: COMPENSATION:
The compensation of the officers and members of the Fire Department shall be
prescribed from time to time by the President and Board of Trustees of the
Village. (1987 Code)
5-1-8: FIREFIGHTERS' PENSION FUND 1 :
There shall be a Firefighters' Pension Fund established in the Village as
provided by statute 2 . (Ord. 87-5, 7-20-1987)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See section 2-3-1 of this Code.
2 2. 40 ILCS 5/4-101 et seq.
5-1-9: BADGE ISSUED:
Each member of the Fire Department shall be issued a badge designating his
rank. (1987 Code)
5-1-10: FIREFIGHTER TO OBEY ORDERS:
Any firefighter in attendance at a fire who shall neglect or refuse to obey the
orders of the officer in command at such fire shall, upon conviction, be fined
in accordance with the rules and regulations as set forth by the Fire
Department and the Board of Fire and Police Commissioners. (Ord. 87-5, 7-20-
1987)
5-1-11: EQUIPMENT:
The Fire Department shall be equipped with such apparatus and other equipment
as may be required from time to time to maintain its efficiency and properly
protect life and property from fire.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Purchases: Recommendations for the apparatus and equipment needed
pursuant to this section shall be made by the Fire Chief. Said recommendations
shall be approved by, and after approval, shall be purchased in such manner as
may be designated by the President and Board of Trustees.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Storage Locations: All equipment of the fire department shall be safely
and conveniently housed in such place as may be designated by the president and
board of trustees.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Prohibited Acts:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Improper Use: No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment
for any private purpose.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Injury To, Interference With Equipment: No person shall wilfully or
negligently break, deface or in any manner injure any fire engine, hose
equipment or other fire apparatus belonging to the fire department, or shall
remove any screw, bolt, nut or any part of such engine or fire apparatus or in
any manner interfere with the same when being used by the proper person or
authority.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Entering Firehouse: It shall be unlawful for any person to enter the
firehouse or any place where fire equipment and apparatus is stored, or handle
any apparatus or equipment belonging to the fire department, at any time except
on business pertaining to said department or accompanied by and having the
special permission of an officer or authorized member of the department. (1987
Code)
5-1-11-1: RESCUE TRUCKS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Transport To Specific Locations: The rescue trucks of the fire
department shall be used to transport persons in emergency situations to the
following hospitals and clinics only:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Any hospital or clinic within the village of Broadview.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Loyola - Foster G. McGaw hospital, Maywood, IL.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Hines hospital, Hines, IL.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Westlake hospital, Melrose Park, IL.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Oak Park hospital, Oak Park, IL.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Gottlieb hospital, Melrose Park, IL.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Riveredge hospital, Forest Park, IL.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â John J. Madden clinic, Maywood, IL.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â LaGrange community hospital, LaGrange, IL.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â MacNeal hospital, Berwyn, IL.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â Elmhurst hospital, Elmhurst, IL.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 12.Â Â Â Hinsdale hospital, Hinsdale, IL.
Deviation from the above is allowed only when operating on a mutual aid call 1
. (Ord. 2001-09, 4-16-2001)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Calls Answered: Rescue squad 213 and/or rescue squad 218 will answer
all the following calls:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Persons trapped, caught, etc., which would require the tools that
are carried on the rescue squads to remove or free them.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Persons who have been injured and require immediate first- aid
treatment or hospitalization.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Persons injured in an accident who require medical examination to
determine if serious injury exists.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Automotive accidents.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Pedestrian accidents.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Train accidents.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Airplane accidents.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Childbirth.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Persons with fractures.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â Victims of poisoning.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â Victims of electrical shock.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 12.Â Â Â Drowning.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 13.Â Â Â Cave-ins where victim is trapped.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 14.Â Â Â Industrial accidents.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 15.Â Â Â Victims having difficulty breathing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 16.Â Â Â Cardiac victims.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 17.Â Â Â All fire calls.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Authority Of Officer In Charge: When the service of rescue squad 213
and/or rescue squad 218 is called for, the officer of the rescue squad shall be
in charge of the emergency and will be responsible for all orders given and
action taken. When the situation demands that the police at the time of
emergency lend assistance, they shall follow the orders of the officer in
charge of the rescue squad. The authority of the Fire Department officer
extends only to the well being of the injured and not to the administrative
police matters in connection with the emergency calls not involving fire.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Provisions Applicable To Both Fire And Police Departments 1 : This
section shall be written into the rules and regulations of the Fire and Police
Departments in its entirety.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Penalty: Any members of the Fire Department or the Police Department
violating any of the provisions of this section shall be subject to
disciplinary action by either the Chief of the various departments or by the
Board of Fire and Police Commissioners by order of the Village Board of
Trustees. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 4 of this title.
1 1. See title 6, chapter 1 of this Code.
5-1-11-2: AMBULANCE USER FEE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The Fire Chief shall collect the following fees for ambulance services:
Â 
Â                     Basic Life Support Advanced Life Support (All Levels)
Resident/non-resident $3,600.32          $4,895.12
Â 
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The Village shall impose a mileage fee of five dollars and sixty cents
($5.60) per mile for all ambulance transports regardless of the type of
ambulance service provided.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Payment for ambulance services shall be the responsibility of the
recipient of said services.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Fee Increases: The fee set forth in the table above for ambulance
transport shall be increased annually, effective January 15 of each year,
without further Village Board action pursuant to the Medicare reimbursement
rate or three percent (3%), whichever is greater. (Ord. 2017-136, 9-5-2017;
amd. Ord. 2020-24, 9-8-2020; Ord. CO-2022-07, 3-7-2022)
5-1-11-3: RESERVED:
(Ord. 13-68, 10-21-2013)
5-1-11-4: RESPONSIBILITY FOR PAYMENT:
The person transported shall be responsible for payment of the charge to the
Village.
If such transportation is provided to a person who is a minor or who is under
legal disability, then such charge shall be paid by the person's parents,
custodian or legal guardian.
Any charge levied shall also be the responsibility of the transported person's
estate, executor, beneficiaries, heirs or assigns. (Ord. 92-2, 2-3-1992)
5-1-11-5: MUTUAL AID CALLS:
Pursuant to chapter 4 of this title, the Village participates in the Mutual
Fire Aid Program with neighboring municipalities.
In the event that the Village Fire Department ambulance responds to a mutual
aid call in a neighboring municipality, the Village will charge an ambulance
user fee on a reciprocal basis; that is, if the neighboring municipality has
enacted a user fee for ambulance services, the Village will reciprocally charge
that fee; however, if the neighboring municipality has not enacted a user fee,
the Village will reciprocally not charge a fee. (Ord. 92-2, 2-3-1992; amd. Ord.
98-04, 3-16-1998)
5-1-11-6: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and
publication in accordance with law. (Ord. 92-2, 2-3-1992)
5-1-11-7: ENGINE AND CREW FEES:
Any person, firm or corporation receiving emergency fire service of an engine
and crew from the Village shall be charged the following fees: two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) per engine and thirty five dollars ($35.00) per crew
member, per hour or any part thereof, payable to the Village. (Ord. 98-04, 3-
16-1998; amd. Ord. 13-68, 10-21-2013)
5-1-12: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
The Chief, Deputy Chief, Captain, Lieutenant, Engineer and such additional
members as may be from time to time provided for in the annual appropriation
ordinance, shall be subject to the rules and regulations as provided by this
chapter. (1987 Code)
5-1-13: NOTICE OF PRIVACY PRACTICES:
Broadview's Fire Department is obligated to obtain signatures of
acknowledgement confirming receipt of the Notice of Privacy Practices from each
person to whom it provides emergency services. (Ord. 2014-58, 10-6-2014)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
5-2-1: Fire Prevention Code Adopted
5-2-2: Definitions
5-2-3: Amendments To The International Fire Code
5-2-4: New Construction
5-2-5: Fire Limits
5-2-6: Enforcement; Fire Prevention Inspections And Fees
5-2-7: Penalty
5-2-1: FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing
conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion, those certain
codes known as the International Fire Code (2018 edition) and appendices as
stated below and the Life Safety Code, NFPA 101 (2015 edition), save and except
those portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended, copies of which
are available in the Village Clerk's Office in compliance with section 1-3-2 of
the Illinois Municipal Code 1 Â and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated
as if fully set forth herein, and from the effective date hereof, the
provisions thereof shall be controlling within the limits of the Village. Where
there are competing clauses or conflicts occur between the codes adopted in
this section (International Fire Code (IFC) and the Life Safety Code (LSC 101
or NFPA 101)) and another referenced code or standard, the codes adopted by
this section shall prevail to the extent the referenced code or standard
includes subject matter that is within the scope of the codes adopted by this
section.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â IFC International Fire Code 2018 appendices B, D, E, F, G, H, I, K and
N are adopted as part of this Code as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Appendices D, F, G, I and N are adopted as regulatory and
enforceable parts of this Code.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Appendices B, E, H, and K, are adopted as reference guidelines only.
(Ord. 2018-33, 12-17-2018; amd. Ord. 2020-7, 2-18-2020)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-3-2.
5-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases, when used in
the Fire Code, shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this
section:
CHIEF OF THE BUREAU OF FIRE PREVENTION: Chief Enforcement Officer.
CORPORATION COUNSEL: The attorney for the Village.
MUNICIPALITY: The Village of Broadview, Illinois. (Ord. 92-4, 2-17-1992; amd.
Ord. 92-20, 7-6-1992; Ord. 2018-33, 12-17-2018)
5-2-3: AMENDMENTS TO THE INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE:
The section numbers hereinafter set forth refer to sections of the
International Fire Code to be amended as aforesaid. The following sections of
the International Fire Code are amended as follows:
Section 101.1 Village of Broadview -added
Section 101.2.1 Appendices -DELETE
Section 102.10 Conflicting provisions. Where there is a conflict between a
general requirement and specific requirements this section shall be applicable.
Where, in specific cases, different sections of this or other adapted codes
specify different material, methods of construction or other requirements, the
most restrictive requirement shall apply, unless otherwise approved by the Fire
Code Official.
Section 103.1 Delete
Section 105.1.1 Permits Required. â€¦â€¦â€¦..shall first make application to the
Village of Broadview Building Department and obtain required permit.
Section 105.2.2 â€¦.vehicles, building, devices, premises, storage spaces,
procedures, processes, activities, and all other relevant items of Fire and
Life Safety to be used to determinedâ€¦â€¦
Section 105.3.3: Occupancy prohibited before approval. â€¦â€¦..fire code official
conducting associated inspection indicating â€¦â€¦â€¦
Section 105.3.4 Conditional permits. â€¦â€¦â€¦.permit applicant, the Village of
Broadview Building Commissioner is authorized to issue a conditional permitâ€¦â€¦.
Section 105.3.7 Information on the permit. The fire code official shall review
all permits required by this codeâ€¦â€¦â€¦..
Section 105.4.4.1 Phased approval. The fire code official is not authorized to
issue a permit for the construction of part of a structure, â€¦â€¦â€¦
105.6 Required operation permits. The fire code official is authorized to
require operational permits for the operation set forth in sections 105.6.1
through 105.6.50.
Section 105.6.41 Change "25 lbs" to "15 pounds". Delete all words after "of
cellulose nitrate (pyroxylin) plastics." Add "Assembly or manufacturing use of
pyroxylin plastics is prohibited."
Section 105.7 Required construction permits. The fire code official is
authorized to review construction permits for work as set forth in Sections
105.7.1 through 105.7.18
Section 109 shall be deleted and amended as follows:
Â Â Â Decisions: The Village President, Fire Chief and the Chief Enforcement
Officer shall act as a committee to determine and specify, after giving
affected persons an opportunity to be heard, any new materials, processes or
occupancies which shall require permits, in addition to those now enumerated in
such Code.
Section 307 Delete.
403.12.3 Crowd managers for gathering exceeding 300 people
Â Â Â Exceptions:
Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Outdoor events with less than 500 persons in attendance shall not
require crowd managers
Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Assembly occupancies used exclusively for religious worship with an
occupant load exceeding 500 shall not require crowd managers.
Section 505 Premise Identification. Change size from 4" to minimum of 4" when
less than 50' from public way or 6" when greater than 50' viewing distance from
Fire Apparatus Approach as approved by fire code official. Keep all the other
language that is in IFC
ADD 505.1 new section. Suite identification. Any multi-tenant of shopping
malls, mercantile, business, mixed used occupancies or residential shall have
identification affixed to doors. This includes any alley, public courtyard or
other public spaces. Such identification shall be by numbers or letters that
are contrasting in color, that are a minimum 4" in height with a minimum stroke
of Â½' so as to be identified and plainly visible from at least 50' in distance.
Add 505.1.1 new section Addressing of rear doors. The rear or side doors of all
malls, strip centers, commercial buildings and other areas where with multi-
tenant spaces shall be identified shall be identified with appropriate address
number and name of business. The address shall be minimum of 4" in height with
Â½" stroke of as approved by the fire code official. This requirement shall
extend to interior corridor commercial buildings to prevent confusion in event
of emergency.
Add Section 506 - Access Key Boxes.
Â Â Â Where access to or within a structure, space or area is not provided twenty
four (24) hours per day, all days of the year because of secured openings, or
where immediate entry into buildings and property without forced entry damage
or delay is necessary for life or firefighting purposes, a key box shall be
installed of a type approved by the Fire Prevention Bureau. Each Key Box is
keyed for master key controlled by the Broadview Fire Department. Property
owners will purchase and store their master keys, access cards, door codes,
gate keys, etc. necessary to gain access to building. Security Keyed-Boxes will
be mounted near building entrances at approved locations as determined by the
Fire Code Official.
Â Â Â All Knox Boxes shall contain labeled keys, easily identified in the field to
provide access into the property and/ or building, and to any locked areas
within the said building.
Â Â Â The owner or person in control of the following types of buildings:
Â Â Â Any apartment building or other building in which six (6) or more dwelling
units are rented for residential purposes and in which access to the building
or to common areas or mechanical or electrical rooms within the building is
denied through locked doors.
Section 907.2 Where required-new buildings and structures.
Â Â Â Use Groups A, B, F, H, M, S, R2 with greater than 11 sleeping units: A fire
protective signaling system shall be installed in each of these occupancies
with the provisions of IFC and NFPA 72 and shall include manual fire alarm
boxes and visible and audible alarms installed at each required and marked exit
of each occupancy. Existing and new building or structures; Any Exceptions, to
required fire protective signaling systems for above noted use groups, that are
noted in these sections 907.2.1-907.2.23 and sections 1103.7.1-1103.7.7 are
deleted.
Section 907.2.11.2 Single and multiple station smoke detectors and CO
Detectors:
Â Â Â Add: In any and all multiple family dwellings, all common areas, such as
hallways, stairways, basements and laundry/storage areas are required to have
smoke detectors that provide an alarm suitable to warn the occupants of the
building. One CO detector shall be required in each common corridor, lobby or
area that opens into a common staircase. One CO detector required within 15
feet of utility or laundry room containing gas fire appliance(s).
Section 907.6 Installation and monitoring.
Section 907.6.1 through 907.6.6.2 and NFPA 72. Fire alarm and sprinkler systems
are required to be continuously monitored by an Underwriters Laboratory (UL)
listed central station approved by Fire Code Official. All Fire Alarm and
Detection systems shall be governed by IFC Chapter 9, NFPA 72 2016 and the
Village of Broadview Fire alarm requirements. All systems, existing or new,
shall utilize AES radio mesh network as means of transmitting signal.
Â Â Â EXCEPTION: Proprietary - A proprietary supervising station is a supervising
station under the same ownership as the buildings protected by the fire alarm
systems. At a proprietary supervising station, personnel are constantly in
attendance to supervise and investigate fire alarm system signals. The
receiving point must be in a separate structure or a part of a structure that
is remote from any hazardous operations. This exception has to be approved by
the Fire Code Official.
Section 907.8 Inspection, testing and maintenance. Record of inspection,
testing and maintenance shall be maintained. Copy of all inspections shall be
electronically transmitted to fire code official to destination approved by
fire code official.
Section 1022 Exits:
Section 1022.2.3 amend as follows:
Â Â Â Under most all circumstances, all use group occupancies within the
municipality limits are required to have a minimum of two (2) exits per floor,
which shall include above and/or below grade level.
Chapter 12 Energy Systems
Â Â Â After publication IFC ed 2021 chapter 12 "Energy Systems" shall take
precedence for any language referencing Energy Storage Systems; and
Â Â Â Shall Comply with Chapter 12 ed 2021 IFC "Energy Systems"
Â Â Â UL9540 (9540A) Standard for energy storage systems and equipment certified
and tested
Â Â Â NFPA 855 Standard for the installation of stationary energy storage systems.
Â Â Â Shall be adapted all installation requires permitting process.
Â Â Â Fire Chief or Fire Code official approval is required.
Section 5301 - General:
Section 5301.1 - Scope
Â Â Â The limits referred to in this article on storage of flammable compressed
gas shall be deleted and read as follows: No bulk storage of Liquefied
Petroleum Gases (LPG) or any other flammable compressed gases shall be
permitted to be stored above ground within the municipality limits.
Chapter 56 Explosives and Fireworks
Section 5601 General
Â Â Â The limits referred to in this article for the storage, manufacturing,
possession, sale and transportation of explosives, ammunition and blasting
agents shall be deleted and read as follows: Storage, sale, possession,
manufacturing and transportation of explosives, ammunition and blasting agents
is prohibited within the Municipality limits.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Exception: Keep 1,2,3,5,7,8,9 as is but change the following subsections
as indicated:
Â Â Â Â Â Â (4) Change 1 pound to Â½ pound, Change 20 pounds to 10 pounds of smokeless
powder.
Â Â Â Â Â Â (6) Add "Permit required for" special industrial explosives
Â Â Â Â Â Â (10) Where small arms ammunition is for sale for the use of sport or
other use in an official capacity as deemed appropriate by the Fire Code
Official.
IFC Section 5704.2 - Tank Storage:
Â Â Â Delete and amend as follows: Except on Village-owned property that is zoned
"I" Institutional District, above-ground storage of flammable and/or
combustible liquids is prohibited within the municipality limits.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Exceptions (4):
Â Â Â Â Â Â A. Class III B combustible liquid having a flash point at or above 350
degrees Fahrenheit.
Â Â Â Â Â Â B. All other limited quantities of flammable and/or combustible liquids
allowed above ground as permitted by the Fire Code Official shall be stored in
approved flammable liquids cabinets and/or storage rooms designed for such
purposes. Annual Permit Required.
Â Â Â Â Â Â C. Critical government non-government facilities are those buildings that
are necessary to the continuing operation of essential services following a
significant event. Examples of these include police stations, fire stations,
essential healthcare buildings, emergency treatment facilities, institutional
facilities, structures containing highly toxic materials, public utilities,
Aviation Control Centers, and emergency operations centers (EOC).
Â Â Â Â Â Â D. Existing Tanks (AST's) that are in use and compliant to code. This
exception does not transfer to new occupancies, usages, new building owners or
operations. Annual Permit is required
Â Â Â Â Â Â *All Above Ground Storage Tanks shall meet all Federal and State
regulations and requirements.
Chapter 61 Scope.
Â Â Â The limits referred to in this article on storage of flammable compressed
gas shall be deleted and read as follows: No bulk storage of Liquefied
Petroleum Gases (LPG) greater than 2,000 Container Capacity (water gallons) or
any other flammable compressed gases shall be allowed to be stored above ground
within the municipality limits. All LPG tank installation and storage in excess
of 500 gallons (1893 L) water capacity requires a permit per Section 105.6.28.
Section 6504.1.2 Capacity limitation. Change "more than 1,000 pounds" to "more
than 250 pounds." Change "Each compartment shall not contain more than 250
pounds (114 kg)" to "Each compartment shall not contain more than 125 pounds
(57kg)."
Section 6504.1.4 Heat Sources. Change "2 feet" to "3 feet."
Section 6504.1.5 and 6504.1.6 Add "No Manufacturing is allowed in Municipal
Limits. (Ord. 2018-33, 12-17-2018; amd. Ord. 2019-3, 1-22-2019; Ord. 2020-7, 2-
18-2020; Ord. CO-2021-01, 2-16-2021)
5-2-4: NEW CONSTRUCTION:
IFC section 903
Section 903.2 Where required. Approved automatic sprinkler systems in new
buildings and structures shall be provided in locations described in Sections
903.2.1 through 903.2.12. Any reference to exceptions for the installation of
sprinkler or suppression systems shall be deleted.
Any and all new construction within the Municipality limits, regardless of use
group, is required to install a fully automatic fire sprinkler and suppression
system in accordance with IFC 2018, NFPA 101, 2015, NFPA 20, 2016, NFPA 13,
2016, NFPA 13R, NFPA 13 D and any applicable Village of Broadview requirements.
Exceptions:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Single-family dwelling units. (R-3)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Multiple-family dwelling (R-2) units of three (3) stories or less and
having no more than six (6) individual dwelling units per building, provided
full heat and smoke detection is installed.
IFC Chapter 9 Fire Protection Systems:
Section 903.2.1
Where there is a change of ownership, change of hazard, change of use or change
of occupancy classification Existing Buildings or Structures shall have an
automatic fire protection system (sprinkler or suppression) installed per
applicable codes or standards: IFC 2018, NFPA-R, -NFPA-D, NFPA 13, NFPA 101,
ed. 2015 or Village of Broadview Requirement in all of the following types of
occupancies: (A) Assembly, (B) Business, (E) Educational, (F) Factory and
Industrial, (I) Institutional, (M) Mercantile, (R) Residential, (S) Storage and
(U) Utility and Miscellaneous, -All systems shall be approved by the fire code
official except as provided for in the following sections:
Exceptions:
Use Group A-1, A-2, A-4, A-5 where occupancy load is less than 200 unless a
more restrictive occupancy load is noted in the IFC 2018, NFPA 101 ed. 2015, or
any other applicable code or standard adapted by the Village of Broadview.
Use Group A-4-3:
All buildings used as churches and for similar religion purposes, providing
they have a full fire detection system of heat and smoke detectors installed
throughout.
Use Group B:
Where square footage is 7,000 square feet or less.
Use Group E:
All buildings used for the purpose of education through the 12th grade and have
2 or less stories in height, providing they have a full fire detection system
of heat and smoke detectors installed throughout.
Use Group M where square footage is 7,000 square feet or less.
Use Group R:
All single-family dwelling units and multiple family units of 3 stories or less
and having no more than 6 individual dwelling units per building.
Section 903.2.2. All (H) High Hazard occupancies shall have fire protection
system installed per applicable codes or standards: IFC 2018, NFPA 13, NFPA
101, 2015 or Village of Broadview Requirement. All systems shall be approved by
the fire code official.
(Ord. 2018-33, 12-17-2018; amd. Ord. 2020-7, 2-18-2020)
5-2-5: FIRE LIMITS 1 :
There are hereby established fire limits for the Village which shall include
all of the following described property:
Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23,
24, 25, 26, 27, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47
and 48 in Broadview, a subdivision in Section 22, Township 39 North, Range 12.
Lots 1 to 11 in Grant's Subdivision of Lots 13, 14, 35, and 36 in Broadview, a
subdivision in Section 22, Township 39 North, Range 12.
Lots 1 to 2 and 31 to 36 in Broadview Gardens, a subdivision of Lots 28, 29,
68, 69, 76, and 77 in Broadview, a subdivision in Section 22, Township 39
North, Range 12.
Lots 1 to 20 and Lots 258 to 281 and Lots 312 and 335 in Cummings and Foreman
Real Estate Corporation Home Addition in Section 21 and 22, Township 39 North,
Range 12, all property east of the Third Principal Meridian, Cook County,
Illinois.
Blocks 13, 14, 15 and 16 in Western Addition, a subdivision of the west half of
the southeast quarter of Section 15, Township 39 North, Range 12, east of the
Third Principal Meridian in Cook County, Illinois.
Lots 24 to 60 and Lots 95 to 130, both inclusive. Lots 165 to 200 and Lots 235
to 270, both inclusive. Lots 373 to 408 and Lots 443 to 479, both inclusive,
and Cummings and Foreman Real Estate Corporation Roosevelt Road and 17th Avenue
Subdivision of Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7 and 8 of Owners Partition of the south
83.2 acres of the west half of Section 15, Township 39 North, Range 12, east of
the Third Principal Meridian, Cook County, Illinois.
Lots 1 to 72 in Foreman and Fargo's Roosevelt Road Subdivision of Lot 6 in
Owners Partition of the South 83.2 acres of the west half of Section 15,
Township 39 North, Range 12.
Lots 16 to 41 in Block 4 in Western Addition, a subdivision of the west half of
the southeast quarter of Section 15, Township 39 North, Range 12, east of the
Third Principal Meridian, Cook County, Illinois.
Lots 2 to 11 in Block 10 in Komarek's West 22nd Street First Addition, a
subdivision of that part of the east half of the southeast quarter of Section
22, Township 39 North, Range 12, south of the Chicago Central & Pacific
Railroad, east of the Third Principal Meridian, Cook County, Illinois.
All Block 8 and Lots 3 to 16 in Block 7 and Lots 1, 2 and 3 in Block 1 in Mares
White & Company's West 22nd Street and 17th Avenue subdivision in the southeast
quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 22, Township 39 North, Range 12,
east of the Third Principal Meridian in Cook County, Illinois.
(Ord. 92-4, 2-17-1992; amd. Ord. 2018-33, 12-17-2018)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See section 9-6-4 of this Code.
5-2-6: ENFORCEMENT; FIRE PREVENTION INSPECTIONS AND FEES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Enforcement: The Fire Code shall be enforced by the Bureau of Fire
Prevention in the Fire Department.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Fire And Life Safety Code Violations: The Fire Chief, Fire Code
Official or any other person designated by the Broadview Fire Prevention Bureau
to enforce its rules and regulations, may make such inspections on property or
premises within the Village as are deemed necessary to enforce the provisions
of the fire prevention code and any other applicable codes adopted by the
Village. Such inspections may be initiated by certain fire and life safety
violations including, but not limited to, the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Blocked Exits: Any obstruction in the required width of a means of
egress. ("Means of Egress" is the continuous and unobstructed path of vertical
and horizontal egress travel from any point in a building or structure to a
public way, consisting of three (3) separate and distinct parts: the exit
access, the exit, and the exit discharge.)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Unauthorized Storage: The storage of flammable, combustible
(including pallets) or hazardous liquids or materials improperly stored or kept
and/or stored or kept without a permit. (This violation applies to facilities
that are required to report under the Hazardous Chemicals Right-to-Know Act.)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Spraying Operation Not In Compliance: Spraying flammable or
combustible finishes without a properly installed spray booth or approved
spraying area.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Alarm/Suppression System Not Tested: Failure to have required
maintenance test conducted on fire alarm system(s) or sprinkler systems or fire
suppression systems, and to have required documentation of test(s).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Use of Unauthorized Heating Device: The use of non-listed heating
appliances and/or heating appliances used in an unapproved manner or location.
There should be no storage or combustibles within three feet (3') of electrical
panels or heating appliances and there is to be no stock or storage within
eighteen inches (18") of any sprinkler heads.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Street Address Numbers Not Visible: Failure to post street address
numbers where visible from the street or primary emergency means of egress.
Address numbers shall be Arabic numerals or alphabet letters. Numbers shall be
a minimum of 4-inches (102mm) high with a minimum stroke width of 0.5-inch
(12.7mm).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Extinguisher Refill: Failure to properly maintain and service
required portable fire extinguishers.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Emergency/Exit Lighting Not Tested: Failure to provide documentation
on the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Emergency Generator: Monthly thirty (30) minute load test
required;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Battery Packs: Thirty (30) seconds: monthly thirty (30) minutes
annually.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Approved Fire Evacuation Plan: Required to be completed, filed with
the Broadview Fire Prevention Bureau and posted onsite in plain view near all
exits and other places required by law, ordinance, or codes adopted by the
Village.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â Commercial Cooking Processes: A Class K fire extinguisher shall be
mounted within thirty feet (30') of commercial food equipment using vegetable
or animal oils.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Commercial cooking systems shall be serviced semi-annually or as
required by code.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Hoods, grease removal devices, fans, ducts and other
appurtenances shall be cleaned to bare metal. Cleaning shall be recorded, and
records shall state the extent, time and date of cleaning.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Records shall be maintained on premises
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Fire-resistance-rated construction shall be maintained (no holes
in walls or ceilings).
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â No Reinspection Required: If upon such initial inspection, violations
of the fire prevention code are discovered, the inspector shall give the owner,
tenant or occupant an inspection report listing said violations and setting the
date by which said violations shall be remedied or abated. If the violations
are classified as minor in nature, the inspector, in his or her sole
discretion, may issue a corrective action report. In such case, the owner or
occupant need only make the necessary repairs or corrections as listed and
certify same in writing to the inspector in the time and manner set forth in
the report. No charge will be assessed for compliance in this manner since a
reinspection is not required
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Self-Inspections: "Self-Inspections" will be offered to certain
businesses within the Village that meet certain criteria outlined by the
Broadview Fire Prevention Bureau or the Village or are otherwise qualified as
determined by the Broadview Fire Prevention Bureau or the Village. No charge is
imposed for such inspections. In most cases, the inspector or qualified
personnel will contact the owner or responsible party of record when these
inspections are due. Any failure by the inspector or qualified personnel to
contact the owner or responsible party does not negate the inspection
requirements contained herein.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Reinspection Required: If upon initial inspection, violation(s) of the
fire prevention code is (are) such that the inspector determines a reinspection
is necessary or if the owner or occupant has not returned the certified
corrective action report set forth above in division C within the designated
time period, then the inspector shall cause a reinspection of the property to
determine whether there is compliance with the code. If it is determined that a
violation or violations continue to exist, the owner, tenant or occupant, as
the case may be, shall be assessed a fifty dollar ($50.00) reinspection fee for
the initial reinspection unless there are circumstances which exist, to the
satisfaction of the inspector, justifying the delay in the compliance. Should
further reinspection be required, additional reinspection fees shall be charged
as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Second Inspection: Seventy five dollars ($75.00);
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Third Inspection: One hundred fifty dollars ($150.00);
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Fourth Inspection (and any inspections beyond the fourth): Two
hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Adjustment Of Fees: The fees noted in Section division C above may be
adjusted due to size of occupancy, building business or the complexity or
nature of the inspection required. (Ord. 92-4, 2-17-1992; amd. Ord. 2018-33,
12-17-2018; Ord. 2020-2, 1-21-2020)
5-2-7: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the Fire Code or Life
Safety Code as adopted by section
5-2-1 of this chapter or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail
to comply with any order made hereunder, or who shall build in violation of any
detailed statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved hereunder,
or any certificate or permit issued hereunder, and from which no appeal has
been taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or
modified by the Chief Enforcement Officer of the Fire Prevention Bureau or by a
court of competent jurisdiction within the time fixed herein, shall severally
for each and every such violation and noncompliance respectively, be guilty of
a misdemeanor and punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. The imposition of one penalty for any and all such persons
shall be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a
reasonable time; and when not otherwise specified, each ten (10) days that
prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense. The
application of the penalty shall not be held to prevent the enforced removal of
prohibited conditions. (Ord. 92-20, 7-6-1992; amd. Ord. 2018-33, 12-17-2018)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL FIRE PREVENTION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Open Burning
5-3-2: Storage Of Combustible Refuse
5-3-3: Bonfires
5-3-4: False Fire Alarms
5-3-5: Alley Address Numbering
5-3-5-1: Noncompliance
5-3-1: OPEN BURNING:
No open burning of leaves, uprooted weeds, grass clippings, waste materials,
garbage, refuse products, glass or metal containers, paper, wood, cardboard,
ashes and cinders and discarded furniture and clothing shall be permitted upon
any private lot or public ground within the Village limits. (1987 Code)
5-3-2: STORAGE OF COMBUSTIBLE REFUSE:
It shall be unlawful to permit or store any combustible refuse in such a way as
to create a fire hazard, or to store or throw any refuse of any kind on any
street, alley or other public place. (1987 Code)
5-3-3: BONFIRES:
It shall be unlawful to build or light any bonfire on any public street or
sidewalk pavement or so close to any building or other structure as to endanger
such building or structure. (1987 Code)
5-3-4: FALSE FIRE ALARMS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly start or spread or maliciously
turn in or cause to be turned in, any false fire alarm in the Village. (1987
Code)
5-3-5: ALLEY ADDRESS NUMBERING:
In order to provide identification for public safety services, every person,
firm or corporation owning or occupying property, other than vacant parcels, to
which access can be gained from an improved alley within the Village, shall be
required to display the numerals of the address on the building on the property
which faces closest to the alley in reflective numerals no less than three and
one-half inches (31/2") in height. (Ord. 92-23, 7-20-1992, eff. 11-1-1992)
5-3-5-1: NONCOMPLIANCE:
After the effective date hereof, owners or occupiers of attached property who
have not complied with the terms of this section
5-3-5 shall be subject to the general penalty provisions of this Code. (Ord.
92-23, 7-20-1992, eff. 11-1-1992)
CHAPTER 4
MUTUAL FIRE AID PROGRAM
SECTION:
5-4-1: Purpose
5-4-2: Definitions
5-4-3: Mutual Fire Aid Agreement
5-4-4: Mutual Fire Aid Program Adopted
5-4-5: Authority To Send Equipment Outside Village Limits
5-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to provide for a program of mutual aid between
this Village and other municipalities, whereby each such municipality will be
obligated to come to the assistance of a neighboring municipality in the event
of an emergency, fire or other disaster therein of such magnitude that the
local fire equipment and personnel cannot effectively cope with it. (1987 Code)
5-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
AIDING MUNICIPALITY: A municipality furnishing fire equipment and personnel to
a stricken municipality or to another aiding municipality.
MUNICIPALITY: A city or village.
MUTUAL AID AREA: The territory occupied within the Village limits and other
areas protected by the following municipalities: Berkeley, Bellwood, Broadview,
Hillside, Maywood, Melrose Park and Westchester, in the County of Cook, State
of Illinois.
MUTUAL FIRE AID PROGRAM: A plan or program as provided for in this Chapter
whereby the municipalities participating in the program agree to come to one
another's assistance in case of emergency, fire or other disaster too large for
local equipment and personnel to handle.
PARTICIPATING MUNICIPALITY: A municipality, in the mutual aid area, that
participates in the mutual fire aid program by adopting an ordinance
authorizing or approving the program and entering into an appropriate
agreement, (substantially as provided herein) with other participating
municipalities for rendering and receiving aid in case of emergency, fire or
other disaster.
STRICKEN MUNICIPALITY: A participating municipality in which an emergency, fire
or other disaster occurs that is of such magnitude that it cannot be adequately
coped with by local fire equipment and personnel. (1987 Code)
5-4-3: MUTUAL FIRE AID AGREEMENT:
The President, by and with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees,
hereby authorizes the Chief of the Fire Department, on behalf of the Village,
to enter into and from time to time to amend, an agreement with any or all of
the municipalities in the actual aid area defining and putting into effect a
mutual fire aid program providing generally as follows:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â In the event that, in the judgment of the officer in charge of the fire
department of a stricken municipality, the available fire equipment and
personnel of that municipality is inadequate to effectively cope with an
emergency, fire or other disaster therein, said officer may call on a
neighboring participating municipality to furnish fire equipment and personnel
(to the extent specified in the agreement) to the stricken municipality, for
use either: 1) in assisting at an emergency, or 2) in combatting a fire or
other disaster, or 3) as a standby reserve to meet other calls that may occur
before the local fire equipment is free to take care of them.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Each aiding municipality furnishing fire equipment and personnel to a
stricken municipality shall have the right to call on another participating
municipality for fire equipment and personnel (to the extent specified in the
agreement) as a standby reserve to take the place, in part, of the equipment
and personnel furnished to the stricken municipality until such equipment and
personnel shall be returned.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â On receipt of a call under subsection A or B of this Section, the
aiding municipality called upon shall (to the extent provided in the agreement)
furnish the equipment and personnel called for by the stricken municipality, or
by the aiding municipality; except that each municipality may always be
permitted to retain sufficient fire equipment and personnel to fight any fire
or to meet any emergency within its own boundaries that may reasonably be
anticipated. (1987 Code)
5-4-4: MUTUAL FIRE AID PROGRAM ADOPTED:
A "mutual fire aid program" conforming to the provisions of Section
5-4-3 of this Chapter, has been agreed upon by the chiefs of the fire
departments of the villages of Berkeley, Bellwood, Broadview, Hillside,
Maywood, Melrose Park and Westchester, and has been submitted to the
authorities of the Village of Broadview. This mutual fire aid program is
subject to change or abrogation by action of the President, by and with the
advice and consent of the Board of Trustees, and the Fire Chief of this
Village, pursuant to Section
5-4-3 of this Chapter.
Unless and until so changed or abrogated, the mutual fire aid program is
ratified as a binding agreement between this Village and all other
municipalities who shall have adopted said program and shall have assumed the
obligations thereby imposed upon them. (1987 Code)
5-4-5: AUTHORITY TO SEND EQUIPMENT OUTSIDE VILLAGE LIMITS:
The President and Board of Trustees and the Fire Chief shall have authority to
send fire equipment and personnel outside the corporate limits of the Village
as provided in the mutual fire aid program agreed to herein, whenever requested
to do so by the officers or authorities of any participating municipality that
has agreed to conform to said program and has assumed the obligations imposed
upon it thereby; provided, that the fire equipment and personnel can be spared
from service at the time the request is made. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 5
FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Plan Submission
5-5-2: Plan Review For Fire Suppression, Fire Alarms And Life Safety
5-5-3: Installation Requirements
5-5-4: Completion And Inspection
5-5-1: PLAN SUBMISSION:
All persons seeking to install any fire alarm, sprinkler/fire protection or
kitchen or special hazard protection system shall complete and submit a set of
plans and a plan submittal checklist, which can be obtained from the Village or
by emailing fireinspector@broadview-il.gov before any permits will be issued to
allow any work to proceed. The installation of a fire alarm, sprinkler/fire
protection or kitchen or special hazard protection system shall require a
permit issued by the Village. The cost of said permit shall be determined in
accordance with this Code and the work being performed. (Ord. 2018-32, 12-3-
2018)
5-5-2: PLAN REVIEW FOR FIRE SUPPRESSION, FIRE ALARMS AND LIFE SAFETY:
Any applicant wishing to install a fire alarm, sprinkler/fire protection or
kitchen or special hazard protection system shall submit an application for
plan review of said planned installation. The minimum information required
before a plan review will be initiated is as follows:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The address where the work is to be performed including the name and
phone number of the building owner.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Name, address, phone, fax, e-mail, and State contractor's license
number of any contractors or subcontractors who are installing or otherwise
working on a fire alarm, sprinkler/fire protection or kitchen or special hazard
protection system, including the designated contact person.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â All plans shall include a statement indicating that "This installation
and design is in accordance with Village of Broadview Fire Alarm Requirements,
{'{'}current adopted version, contact Fire Prevention Bureau{'}'} National Fire
Protection Association ("NFPA") 70/72, ICC, IFC Sec 907, and manufacturer's
specifications".
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Creation date of plan, revision dates, point of compass, scale and
graphic representation of scale shall be clearly indicated on the plans.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Description of the scope of work and legend of devices on drawing shall
be indicated on or appended to the plans.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Manufacturers cut sheets for all equipment, clearly indicating which
models will be utilized shall be included with the plans. If components from
different manufacturer are to be used, then manufacturer statement of
compatibility of said parts shall be included in submission.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Floor plan(s) indicating all device locations and clearly identifying
rooms, use of said rooms, use of areas, etc., shall be included with the plans.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â The plans shall include a 1-line diagram (riser), including power
connection and conductor type and sizes.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Clear description of ceiling construction and height or detailed
elevation drawing shall be included.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â The name and the contact information of the fire alarm designer is to
be listed on plans with proof of their qualifications in accordance with NFPA
72 4.3.2.2.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Plan or drawing revisions shall be submitted with changes included.
Other chances or corrections shall be clearly identified.
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â The plans shall indicate the AES radio and central station in your
submittal document. All new or existing fire alarms shall utilize only an AES
radio for transmitting alarm to UL approved central station. All required test
results shall be transmitted to Broadview Fire Prevention Bureau or to approved
vender (company) in timely manner.
Failure to provide the necessary information may delay the review process or
result in the rejection of an application.
Â Â Â M.Â Â Â Broadview Fire Prevention Fee Schedule For Contracts:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â This subsection shall apply to new construction and buildings that
have been substantially rehabbed, meaning fifty percent (50%) or more of the
assessed value of the property, and pertains to fees charged by Broadview Fire
Prevention Bureau related to fire and life safety plan reviews, including any
required reviews required or performed by Cook County, the State of Illinois,
the Joint Commission International (JCI), or any other regulatory authority.
Examples of plan reviews that will incur costs are listed below. If at any time
the Village of Broadview Fire Chief and/or Village Fire Code Official determine
in their sole discretion that the extent of the request requires additional
resources or expertise, a third-party review will be required. The Village
reserves the right to contract with certain persons, companies, or other public
bodies to perform these duties.
Â Â Â Â Â Â In order to receive a required â€œLetter of Reviewâ€ from the Broadview Fire
Prevention Bureau, a completed plan review must be received from a certified or
qualified plan review company as listed on the State of Illinois website
(equivalent NFPA (CFPE) or NICET certification is acceptable). No letter of
review from the Broadview Fire Prevention Bureau will be written without
evidence of a paid invoice to the reviewing company or party.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Schedule Of Fees: The schedule of fees below is intended to offset
the cost of providing the listed services. No inspections are included in the
below plan review fees. It is assumed that all inspections are conducted by the
facilitiesâ€™ own internal Life Safety Engineers or consultants. Requests for
inspections may incur additional fees.
Service Fee
Service                                                                    Fee
Written letter of review for code compliance
Â Â Â With no code review completed by BFD Fire Prevention                 $30
Â Â Â With code review for fire alarm up to 10 devices ($5 per additional  $100
device
Up to 20 sprinklers without occupancy classification change                $150
Restaurant wet chemical systems up to 10 nozzles ($12 per additional       $200
nozzle)
Clean agent suppression systems up to 500 sq. ft.                          $250
Life safety code review up to 7,500 sq. ft. (additional $2 per sq. ft. for $200
spaces larger than 7,500 sq. ft.)
Â 
(Ord. 2018-32, 12-3-2018; amd. Ord. 2020-3, 1-21-2020)
5-5-3: INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS:
The following shall be required for all fire alarm installations:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â As per NFPA 72 4.3.3 (1) and (2), installation personnel shall be
qualified or shall be supervised by persons who are qualified and experienced
in the installation, inspection, and testing of the fire alarm systems. The
installer shall be at least NICET (or equivalent) level II certified in the
field of fire alarm systems and/or be factory trained on the control equipment
being installed.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â All fire alarm systems must be twenty four (24) volts. All previous or
abandoned system components will be removed per NFPA 70/72.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Two (2) sets of stamped plans, drawn to an indicated scale (1/8 inch
scale), must be submitted for review and approval. A minimum of two (2) sets of
pictured product data submittals with highlighted and/or indicated model
numbers including the manufacturer information sheets for all control units,
all initiating devices, all notification devices, all control/monitor modules,
and all supplementary equipment shall be included.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Supply battery calculations must be provided. Storage batteries require
the capacity to monitor the protected-premises system for at least forty eight
(48) hours, plus five (5) minutes sounding the alarms. Max voltage drop of
fifteen percent (15%) shall be allowed. The installation date shall be written
or otherwise indicated on all batteries.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Fire alarm control panel ("FACP") must note circuit breaker location,
FACP position number, and emergency contact info as are to be posted on or
inside of the FACP door.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â The Village of Broadview will not approve the installation and use of
any panel that requires codes or special knowledge to operate or reset. Remote
annunciators will be key controlled (no password) and be capable of silencing
and resetting using a one button function. FACP will be keyed alike.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Fire detection equipment shall not be integrated into a burglar alarm
system.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â "Pull stations" shall be flush mounted (back box when needed) and will
be installed to NFPA 72 specifications. Pull stations located where they are
subject to impact damage are to be fitted with protective covers. Pull stations
will be dual action. FACP and pull stations will be keyed alike.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â All detectors located in concealed areas and spaces shall have remote
indicating lights mounted in a clearly visible area as close as possible to the
location of the detector. Remote test station shall be installed. The
indicating light shall latch to remain solid red in color until panel is reset.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Location of any automatic extinguishing systems shall be shown on plans
and riser diagrams. All systems of this type must be tied into the fire alarm
system and zoned separately. All valves controlling any part of a new or
existing suppression system(s) shall be electronically supervised by the fire
alarm panel.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â All smoke or heat detectors to be used are to be equipped with a steady
red indicator light that illuminates upon activation. Light must remain
illuminated until panel is reset.
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â Strobes will be placed outside occupancy. The strobes shall be: 1) a
weatherproof (a loop wire installation) red strobe to be installed on the
exterior of the building, facing street, to activate on general alarm; and 2) a
weatherproof (a loop wire installation) white strobe to be placed by FDC to
activate on water flow only. End of line resistors ("EOLs") may not be placed
outdoors.
Â Â Â M.Â Â Â System will be remotely monitored by a UL approved central station
utilizing AES radio only. A 24-hour central station contact number is to be
conspicuously posted by the FACP. A six (6) hour check in or twelve (12) hours
with tamper system shall be placed on door of radio.
Â Â Â N.Â Â Â Smoke detectors shall be required to be located near all FACP,
notification appliance circuit ("NAC") or horn boosters as provided for in the
NFPA 72.
Â Â Â O.Â Â Â Firewire shall be placed in all conduit to minimal stub height of ten
feet (10') with chaffing protection and service loop.
Â Â Â P.Â Â Â Horn/strobe circuits to be minimum 14-gauge jacketed firewire or 14-
gauge THHN for piped runs.
Â Â Â Q.Â Â Â All initiating (SLC) circuits shall use, at a minimum a 16-gauge wire.
Â Â Â R.Â Â Â All duct/smoke detectors will shut down their respective fans on air
handler and be hardwired to FACP on resettable circuit per NFPA 92/96.
Â Â Â S.Â Â Â When a fire alarm is required by NFPA 101 2012, IFC 2015 or Village of
Broadview ordinance it shall be an addressable-type automatic fire alarm system
(new or replacement system); such systems are required under the following
conditions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Where buildings are two (2) stories in height, multi-tenant,
multiple protection systems; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Where any one building is greater than five thousand (5,000) square
feet; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â In all A1, A2, E, I1, I2, I3, R1, R2, H type occupancies (R2
requirement number of sleeping units shall be reduced from 16 to 12). (Ord.
2018-32, 12-3-2018)
5-5-4: COMPLETION AND INSPECTION:
At a minimum, during the installation of any fire systems the following
inspections are required:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Rough-in inspection to be completed before wiring or wiring methods is
concealed.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Overhead inspections to be completed before the installation of ceiling
tiles or ceiling system.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Final inspection shall include but not be limited to: verification of
device placement, functional test of system, response time test, and a review
of contractors one hundred percent (100%) self-inspection documentation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â If work is found to have commenced without approved plans and/or a
proper permit, the Broadview Fire Prevention Bureau may shut down any/all
portions of the project deemed necessary to inspect, investigate and confirm
that work has been done. If any portion of the work performed is not clearly
visible or readily accessible, the owner or applicant will be ordered to
demolish, disassemble or remove any and all obstructions regardless of the cost
incurred. Failure to comply will result in the suspension/revocation of any
building or other permits related to the site and the issuance of a code
violation citation.
Failure to call for an inspection may result in delays or required covered work
to be uncovered for visual inspections.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â An acceptance test of the entire system will be conducted by the main
installer, not supervisors or testers. All equipment and personnel needed will
be supplied by installing contractor. As built drawings will be submitted to
Fire Chief or designees, or the Fire Prevention Officer or designee prior to
test. Electronic copy to be emailed to fireinspector@broadview-il.gov upon
acceptance.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Complete the "Fire Alarm System - Record of Completion" form (or
equivalent) as found in the adopted issue of NFPA 72.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Zone maps/floor plan drawings a minimum size of 11" x 17" or as
required by the Fire Chief or designees, or the Fire Prevention Officer or
designee will be supplied. Maps shall be permanently mounted, framed and
suitably protected and located by FACP and annunciator.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â A cabinet for permanent fire alarm records is required to be installed
in every new building with a fire alarm system and in existing buildings when a
new fire alarm system is installed. The cabinet for permanent fire alarm
records is to be located adjacent to the fire alarm control panel, or as
approved by the authority having jurisdiction. The cabinet is required to meet
the following specifications:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Be of durable construction; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Securable if keyed, keyed the same as the control panel; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Marked in contrasting letters, "Permanent Fire Alarm System Records
Do Not Remove".
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â The cabinet is required to contain the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Complete set of as-built drawings, as well as system modification
drawings; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A copy of the NFPA Record of Completion; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A copy of the original test printout; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â A complete copy of the operating instructions for the entire system;
and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â A copy of previous testing and inspection forms (minimum of last 3
years). (Ord. 2018-32, 12-3-2018)
TITLE 6
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT 1
SECTION:
6-1-1: Department Created; Members
6-1-2: Organization
6-1-3: Duties Of Chief Of Police
6-1-4: Powers And Duties Of Police
6-1-5: Compensation
6-1-6: Police Reserve
6-1-7: Deputy Chief Of Police
Â 
Notes
  1. See section
1 5-1-11-1, title 2, chapter 2, and section
  1-9-3 of this code.
6-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED; MEMBERS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Department Created: There is hereby created a police department of the
village of Broadview, having the following respective ranks of officers: one
chief of police, one deputy chief of police, three (3) lieutenants, four (4)
sergeants, and such additional members of the police department as may, from
time to time, be prescribed by the chief of police, approved by the president
and the village board, and, if required, duly appointed by the board of fire
and police commissioners of the village of Broadview. All officers shall
function as provided by the rules and regulations of the police department.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Part Time Police Officers:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Appointment: The chief of police is authorized to appoint,
discipline and discharge part time officers. Part time officers shall be
members of the regular police department except for pension purposes. Part time
officers shall, at all times during the performance of their duties, be subject
to the direction and control of the chief of police.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Hiring Standards: Prior to being hired, a part time police officer
must have previous law enforcement experience or must obtain certification
within eighteen (18) months after the date of hire, according to 50 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 705/8.2. The applicant must also have a screening and
background check, which includes a fingerprint check through the Illinois
criminal history and federal bureau of investigation (FBI); and pass a physical
fitness, power test, that is based on the Illinois training board requirements
for minimum fitness for a police officer.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Training Standards 2 : The part time officer, upon hiring by the
village and the village police department, will be required to complete a field
training program as determined by the chief of police with a certified field
training officer and successful understanding of the Broadview police
department training guide. The part time officer will be monitored and
evaluated periodically. The part time officer must also attend in-service
training as authorized by the chief of police. Such standards shall be
submitted to the Illinois law enforcement training standards board upon passage
of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Powers And Duties: A part time officer shall have all the powers and
duties as a regular member of the police department, but shall not be assigned
under any circumstances, to supervise or direct full time police officers of
the village police department. Part time officers shall not be used as
permanent replacements for permanent full time police officers. Part time
officers must also abide by all rules, regulations, policies and general orders
as set forth by the chief of police and the village.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Auxiliary Police Officers:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Powers And Duties: Auxiliary police officers shall not be members of
the regular police department of the village. Auxiliary police officers shall
not supplement members of the regular police department in the performance of
their assigned and normal duties, except as otherwise provided in this code.
Auxiliary police officers shall only be assigned to perform the following
duties in the village: a) to aid or direct traffic within the municipality, b)
to aid in control of natural or manmade disasters, and c) to aid in case of
civil disorder as directed by the chief of police. When it is impractical for
members of the regular police department to perform those normal and regular
police duties, however, the chief of police of the regular police department
may assign auxiliary police officers to perform those normal and regular police
duties. Identification symbols worn by auxiliary police officers shall be
different and distinct from those used by members of the regular police
department. Auxiliary police officers shall at all times during the performance
of their duties be subject to the direction and control of the chief of police.
Auxiliary police officers shall not carry firearms, except with the permission
of the chief of police and while in uniform and in the performance of their
duties. Auxiliary police officers, when on duty, shall also be conservators of
the peace and shall have the powers specified in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/3.1-15-25.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Training And Hiring: Auxiliary police officers, before entering upon
any of their duties, shall receive a course of training in the use of weapons
and other police procedures appropriate for the exercise of the powers
conferred upon them under this section. Before being permitted to carry a
firearm, however, an auxiliary police officer must have the same course of
training as required of peace officers under section 2 of the peace officer
firearm training act. The village may require that all auxiliary police
officers be residents of the village. Before the appointment of an auxiliary
police officer, the person's fingerprints shall be taken, and no person shall
be appointed as an auxiliary police officer if that person has been convicted
of a felony or other crime involving moral turpitude. (Ord. 11-69, 10-17-2011;
amd. Ord. CO-2023-10, 4-17-2023)
Â 
Notes
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-21.
6-1-2: ORGANIZATION:
The police department shall be organized and the officers thereof shall be
appointed and shall function as provided by the rules and regulations and
subject to the control of the board of fire and police commissioners 1  and as
may be otherwise provided by ordinance.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Deputy Policemen: The president of the village may in times of peril,
danger, riot or pestilence, or apprehension thereof, and at all conflagrations
and during any public election or celebration or unusual congregation of the
people in the village, appoint for a specified time as many deputy policemen as
he may deem necessary, and during the term of such service, such deputy
policemen shall possess all the duties of regular policemen of the village.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Special Policemen: The president, by and with the advice and consent of
the board of trustees, may appoint any number of special policemen whenever he
deems necessary, which appointment shall be effective for one year or less, at
the pleasure of the board of trustees. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 1 of this code.
6-1-3: DUTIES OF CHIEF OF POLICE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Executive Orders Of Health Department: The chief of police shall
execute or cause to be executed, all orders directed to him by the health
department so far as they relate to the preservation of the health of the
village.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Annual Report: The chief of police shall, at the first meeting of the
village board of trustees in January of each year, make an annual report in
writing to the president and village board of the state of the police force
with a detailed report of the transactions of the police department for the
preceding year, with such statistics and suggestions in regard to the
requirements of the department as he may deem advisable. The chief shall also
make reports of any matter or thing concerning such department whenever
requested by the president or village board.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Arrest Reports: It shall be the duty of the chief of police to report
to the village collector the names of all persons arrested or committed to
jail, bridgewall or house of correction, and the collector shall keep a record
of the names of all such persons in a book or books to be provided for such
purpose. Such record shall show the date of arrest or committal, the number of
days imprisoned, the amount of the fine, when and to whom paid, and the date of
discharge of such persons. (1987 Code)
6-1-4: POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Assist Fire Department: It is the special duty of the chief and members
of the police department and who may be on duty, to respond to all fire alarms
and assist the fire department in the protection of life and liberty in
regulating traffic, maintaining order and enforcing observance of all
applicable sections.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Arrest Powers 1 : The several members of the police force are
authorized to arrest with or without process, or on view, any person or persons
who shall break the peace or to be found violating any ordinance of the village
or any criminal law of the state, and to take such person or persons before the
appropriate court, or if necessary detain such person or persons in custody
overnight or Sunday in the village jail or any other safe place, until they can
be brought before the appropriate court for trial.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Report Accident: It shall be the duty of each and every police officer
of the village, whenever any accident shall occur within the municipal limits
of which he has or should have notice or knowledge, to report forthwith in
writing to the president the place, day and nature of the accident; the hour of
day or night when it occurred; and the condition of the weather. If the
accident occurred at night, he shall report whether clear, cloudy or moonlit;
whether the street lamps nearby were lighted or not; the name of each person
injured; the extent and nature of the injury suffered; the names and residences
of the principal witnesses; and the name and residence of the examining
physician, if any.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Serve Warrants: Any regular member of the police department shall have
power and authority, and it shall be his duty, in the village, to serve and
execute warrants and other processes for the apprehension and commitment of
persons charged with the violation of any village ordinance or any crime,
misdemeanor or offense against the peace of the state or the village, or held
for examination or trial, or taken on execution for the commission of any
crime, misdemeanor or violation of any law or ordinance, and while serving or
executing or assisting in the service or execution of any such warrant or
process he shall be vested with and have all the powers and authority conferred
on constables by the common laws and laws of the state.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Serve As Witnesses: All officers making arrests shall attend as
witnesses before the court where the trial may be had, shall procure all
necessary evidence in their power and furnish a list of witnesses to the court
and the corporation counsel. No village officer shall be entitled to any
witness fees to be taxed against the village in any action for any violation
where the village is plaintiff. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-6-6 of this code.
6-1-5: COMPENSATION:
The compensation of the various officers shall be prescribed from time to time
by the president and board of trustees of the village. (1987 Code)
6-1-6: POLICE RESERVE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Police Reserve Created, Membership: There is hereby authorized a police
reserve organization to supplement the regular police department of the village
in such number as the president and the board of trustees may deem necessary at
any particular time.
The president and board of trustees may delegate the fire and police
commissioners to screen the eligible candidates for the police reserve.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Appointment, Applicability Of Rules And Regulations: The president of
the village may, on the application of any person showing the necessity
thereof, appoint by and with the advice and consent of the board of trustees
the policemen to the reserve or any additional number of police reserve to do
special duty at any fixed place within the village. The person so appointed
shall be subject to all rules and regulations governing the police department
and to such special rules and regulations as the chief of police or president
and board of trustees may make concerning such policemen.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Powers: The members of the police reserve shall possess all the powers
and privileges and perform all the duties of regular policemen. The police
reserve shall be governed by the rules and regulations of the police department
except that they shall not come within the jurisdiction of the fire and police
commissioners. (1987 Code)
6-1-7: DEPUTY CHIEF OF POLICE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Creation Of Position: There is hereby created the position of deputy
chief of police of the village of Broadview.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Appointment And Eligibility: The deputy chief of police shall be
appointed by the chief of police with the concurrence of the village president
and board of trustees. The deputy chief of police position is exempt from
appointment by the board of fire and police commissioners of the village of
Broadview. The deputy chief may be removed at any time by the chief of police.
The deputy chief may be appointed from any rank of sworn, full time officers of
the village's police department, but must have at least three (3) years of full
time service as a police officer in the village police department. The deputy
chief of police shall possess discernible leadership skills, and shall have the
knowledge, training, and experience required for this level of work.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Service: A deputy chief shall serve at the discretion of the chief of
police and, if removed from the position, shall revert to the rank currently
held, without regard as to whether a vacancy exists in that rank. A deputy
chief of police, having been appointed from any rank of sworn full time
officers of village's police department, shall be permitted, regardless of
rank, to take promotional exams and be promoted to a higher classified rank
than he currently holds, without having to resign as deputy chief of police.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Compensation: The salary for the position of Deputy Chief shall be set
by the Village's then current budget ordinance, and may be further amended from
time to time by the village board.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Powers And Duties:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The deputy chief of police shall be second in command in the village
of Broadview police department, shall be in command of all police activities
while on duty, subject only to the orders of the chief of police, and shall
have such other authority as prescribed by the chief of police.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â In any emergency situation, or during the absence of the chief of
police, the deputy chief of police shall assume all of the duties of the chief
of police and shall exercise all powers of the chief of police.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The deputy chief of police shall direct the performance of the
lieutenants in order to ensure efficient performance of their managerial duties
and assignments and shall provide direct support to lieutenants in meeting
department fiscal and support goals.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The deputy chief of police shall coordinate the discipline, training
and evaluation of all operational, investigative, support, and special units
within the police department.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The deputy chief of police shall assist in the development and
annual oversight of the police department budget and budget maintenance, shall
assist in identifying and making applications for various police department
grants, and shall be responsible for maintaining efficient and fiscally
responsible cross training management duties within all ranks.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â The powers and duties set forth herein are not meant to be
exclusive, but are meant to describe in general the duties and functions of the
deputy chief of police. In addition hereto, the deputy chief of police shall
perform any and all other duties assigned by the chief of police. (Ord. 11-69,
10-17-2011; amd. Ord. 2025-1, 1-6-2025)
CHAPTER 2
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES 1
(Rep. by Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See title 15 of this code.
CHAPTER 3
CIVIL EMERGENCIES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definitions
6-3-2: Proclamation Of Emergency
6-3-3: Authority Of Mayor
6-3-4: Effect Of Regulations
6-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this Section:
CIVIL EMERGENCY: A. A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of
actual force or violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate
power to execute by three (3) or more persons acting together without
authority.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Any natural disaster or manmade calamity including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion within the corporate
limits of the Village, resulting in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
CURFEW: A prohibition against any person walking, running, loitering, standing
or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public property or vacant premises
within the corporate limits of the Village, excepting officials of any
governmental unit and persons officially designated to duty with reference to
the civil emergency. (1987 Code)
6-3-2: PROCLAMATION OF EMERGENCY:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Issuance: Whenever an emergency as defined in Section
6-3-1 of this Chapter exists, the Mayor shall declare the existence by means of
a written declaration setting forth the facts which constitute the emergency.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Notification Of News Media, Posting Of Proclamation: Upon issuing the
proclamation herein authorized, the Chief of Police shall notify the news media
serving the Village and shall cause three (3) copies of the proclamation
declaring the existence of the emergency to be posted at the following places
within the Village: the Village Hall, the police station and the post office.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Duration: The proclamation authorized in this Section shall be
effective for a period of forty eight (48) hours unless sooner terminated by a
proclamation of the Mayor indicating that the civil emergency no longer exists.
The Mayor shall have the power to reproclaim the existence of a civil emergency
at the end of each forty eight (48) hour period during the time the civil
emergency exists. (1987 Code)
6-3-3: AUTHORITY OF MAYOR:
After the proclamation of a civil emergency, the Mayor may also, in the
interest of public safety and welfare, make any or all the following orders:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Curfew: Order a general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of
the Village or to the Village as a whole, as he deems advisable, said curfew
applicable during such hours of the day or night as he deems necessary in the
interest of the public safety and welfare.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Retail Liquor Stores: Order the closing of all retail liquor stores,
including taverns and private clubs or portions thereof wherein the consumption
of intoxicating liquor and beer is permitted.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Liquor Sales: Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor
by any wholesaler or retailer.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Flammable Liquids: Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or
giving away gasoline or other flammable or combustible liquid products in any
container other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Firearms: Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing
or giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Additional Orders: Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary
for the protection of life and property. (1987 Code)
6-3-4: EFFECT OF REGULATIONS:
Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed to impair the powers
contained in this Code giving powers to the Police and Fire Departments, but
shall be construed together with existing ordinances now in effect for the
safety and welfare of the citizens of the Village. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 4
MINORS 1
(Rep. by Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See title 15 of this code.
CHAPTER 5
GAMBLING 1
(Rep. by Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See title 15 of this code.
CHAPTER 6
OBSCENITY 1
(Rep. by Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See title 15 of this code.
CHAPTER 7
ANIMALS 1
(Rep. by Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See title 15 of this code.
CHAPTER 8
ABANDONED, INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-8-1: Definitions
6-8-2: Abandonment Of Motor Vehicles
6-8-3: Police To Be Notified Of Vehicle Possession
6-8-4: Removal Of Abandoned, Wrecked Vehicle
6-8-5: Notification Of Owner Of Towed Vehicle
6-8-6: Reclamation Of Vehicle By Owner
6-8-7: Sale, Disposal Of Vehicle
6-8-8: Nonliability Of Village And Towing Service
6-8-9: Inoperable Motor Vehicles
6-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this Section:
ABANDONED VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle or other vehicle in a state of disrepair
rendering the vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition; or any motor
vehicle or other vehicle that has not been moved or used for seven (7)
consecutive days or more and is apparently deserted.
ANTIQUE VEHICLE: Any operable motor vehicle or other vehicle over twenty five
(25) years of age.
HIGHWAY: Any street, alley or public way within the Village.
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle from which, for a period of at
least seven (7) days, the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed, or
in which the engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or
otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its
own motor power, except in the case of temporary service or repair operations.
(Ord. 90-4, 7-16-1990)
6-8-2: ABANDONMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES:
The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof on any
highway in this Municipality is unlawful and subject to penalties as set forth
herein. The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof
on private or public property other than a highway, in view of the general
public, anywhere in this Municipality is unlawful except on property of the
owner or bailee of such abandoned vehicle. A motor vehicle or other vehicle or
any part thereof so abandoned on private property may be authorized for removal
by or upon the order of the Chief of the Police Department of the Municipality,
after a waiting period of seven (7) days or more has expired. (1987 Code)
6-8-3: POLICE TO BE NOTIFIED OF VEHICLE POSSESSION:
When an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle
comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in this State, not
the owner of the vehicle, such person shall immediately notify the Municipal
Police Department when the vehicle is within the corporate limits of the
Municipality. Upon receipt of such notification, the Chief of Police shall
authorize a towing service to remove and take possession of the abandoned,
lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle. The towing service
will safely keep the towed vehicle and its contents, maintain a record of the
tow until the vehicle is claimed by the owner or any other person legally
entitled to possession thereof, or until it is disposed of as provided in this
Chapter. (1987 Code)
6-8-4: REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, WRECKED VEHICLE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is abandoned on a highway in this
Municipality ten (10) hours or more its removal by a towing service may be
authorized by order of the Village Chief of Police.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned or partially dismantled
motor vehicle or other vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because of its
position in relation to the highway or its physical appearance is causing the
impeding of traffic, its immediate removal from the highway by a towing service
may be authorized by order of the Village Chief of Police.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Any police officer is hereby authorized to remove or cause to be
removed by a towing service any vehicle parked or abandoned upon any street,
alley or public property within the Municipality under the following
conditions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â When such vehicle is or may be expected to interrupt the free flow
of traffic.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â When such vehicle is or may be expected to interfere with the
maintenance of any street, alley or public property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â During snowstorms, floods, fires or other public emergencies.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â When a vehicle is removed from either public or private property the
owner of the vehicle will be responsible for all towing and storage costs.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is authorized to be towed away,
the Police Department shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle towed,
listing the color, year of manufacturer's series name, body style, vehicle
identification number and license plate year and number displayed on the
vehicle. The record shall also include the date and hour of tow, location towed
from, location towed to, reason for towing and the name of the officer
authorizing the tow. (1987 Code)
6-8-5: NOTIFICATION OF OWNER OF TOWED VEHICLE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â When the Municipal Police Department does not know the identity of the
registered owner or other legally entitled person it will cause the motor
vehicle registration records of the State to be searched by a directed
communication to the Secretary of State for the purpose of obtaining the
required ownership information.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The Police Department will cause the stolen motor vehicle files of the
State police to be searched by a directed communication to said State police
for stolen or wanted information on the vehicle. When the State police files
are searched with negative results, the information contained in the National
Crime Information Center (NCIC) files will be searched by the State police. The
information determined from these record searches will be used by the Police
Department in sending a notification by certified mail to the owner or legally
entitled person advising where the vehicle is held, requesting a disposition be
made and setting forth public sale information.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â When the registered owner or other person legally entitled to the
possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle cannot be identified from the
registration files of this State or from the registration files of a foreign
state, if applicable, the Police Department shall notify the State police for
the purpose of identifying the vehicle's owner or other person legally entitled
to the possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by the State police
will be immediately forwarded to the law enforcement agency having custody of
the vehicle for notification of owner. (1987 Code)
6-8-6: RECLAMATION OF VEHICLE BY OWNER:
Any time before a motor vehicle or other vehicle is sold at public sale or
disposed of as provided herein, the owner or other person legally entitled to
its possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the Police Department
proof of ownership or proof of the right to possession of the vehicle. No
vehicle shall be released to the owner or other person under this Section until
all towing and storage charges have been paid. (1987 Code)
6-8-7: SALE, DISPOSAL OF VEHICLE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Owner Notified, Public Sale: Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen or
unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle, seven (7) years of age or newer,
remains unclaimed by the registered owner or other person legally entitled to
its possession for a period of thirty (30) days after notice has been given as
provided herein, the Police Department having possession of the vehicle shall
cause it to be sold at public sale to the highest bidder. Notice of the time
and place of the sale shall be posted in a conspicuous place for at least ten
(10) days prior to the sale on the premises where the vehicle has been
impounded. At least ten (10) days prior to the sale, the Police Department
shall cause a notice of the time and place of the sale to be sent by certified
mail to the registered owner or other person known by the Police Department or
towing service to be legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle. Such
notice shall contain a complete description of the vehicle to be sold and what
steps must be taken by any legally entitled person to reclaim the vehicle. In
those instances where the certified notification specified herein has been
returned by the postal authorities to the Police Department due to the
addressee having moved, or being unknown at the address obtained from the
registration records of this State, the sending of a second certified notice
will not be required.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Owner Unknown, Vehicle Sold Or Junked; Exception:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â When the identity of the registered owner or other person legally
entitled to the possession of an abandoned, lost or unclaimed vehicle of seven
(7) years of age or newer cannot be determined by any means provided for in
this Chapter, the vehicle may be sold as provided herein or disposed of in the
manner authorized by this Chapter without notice to the registered owner or
other person legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven (7) years of age is
impounded as specified by this Chapter, it will be kept in custody for a
minimum of ten (10) days for the purpose of determining ownership; the
contacting of the registered owner by the U.S. mail, public service or in
person for a determination of disposition; and, an examination of the State
police stolen motor vehicle files for theft and wanted information. At the
expiration of the ten (10) day period, without the benefit of disposition
information being received from the registered owner, the Chief of Police will
authorize the disposal of the vehicle as junk only.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A motor vehicle or other vehicle classified as an antique vehicle is
excluded from these provisions.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Record Of Sale Or Disposal: When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in
the custody of the Police Department is reclaimed by the registered owner or
other legally entitled person, or when the vehicle is sold at public sale or
otherwise disposed of as provided in this Chapter; a report of the transaction
will be maintained by the Police Department for a period of one year from the
date of the sale or disposal.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Proceeds Of Sale: When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of
this Municipality is authorized to be towed away by the Chief of Police and
disposed of as set forth herein the proceeds of the public sale or disposition
after the deduction of towing, storage and processing charges shall be
deposited in the Municipal Treasury. (1987 Code)
6-8-8: NONLIABILITY OF VILLAGE AND TOWING SERVICE:
Any police officer, towing service owner, operator or employee shall not be
held to answer or be liable for damages in any action brought by the registered
owner, former registered owner, or his legal representative, or any other
person legally entitled to the possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle
when the vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of as provided by this
Chapter. (1987 Code)
6-8-9: INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Nuisance Declared: It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to leave,
keep or store an inoperable motor vehicle on public or private property and in
view of the general public within the Village for a period in excess of seven
(7) days, except when said vehicle is stored within a building or upon premises
of a business lawfully engaged in the wrecking or junking of motor vehicles 1 ,
and except when said vehicle is classified as an antique vehicle.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Disposal Of Vehicle: Any person who has an inoperable vehicle under his
control, either as the owner of the vehicle and/or as the owner of the private
property on which the vehicle is left, upon notice by the Village to dispose of
the inoperable vehicle, shall, within seven (7) days of the issuance of the
notice, dispose of said vehicle.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Removal Of Vehicle By Police Department: In the event the vehicle is
not disposed of as provided by subsection B of this Section, the Police
Department is given the authority to remove said inoperable vehicle. The owner
of the vehicle, in addition to any fines or penalties imposed, shall be
responsible for all towing and storage costs.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Disposition Of Vehicle: In the event the inoperable vehicle is removed
by the Police Department, the notification to owner, reclamation and sale and
disposal of said vehicle shall be governed by the provisions of Sections
6-8-5,
6-8-6,
6-8-7 and
6-8-8 of this Chapter.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Penalty: Any person who fails to dispose of said vehicle after notice,
as set forth herein, shall be fined not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more
than twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each day that the inoperable vehicle
remains on the property. (Ord. 90-4, 7-16-1990)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  3-20-2 of this Code.
CHAPTER 9
FAIR HOUSING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-9-1: Title
6-9-2: Policy
6-9-3: Severability
6-9-4: Construction
6-9-5: Definitions
6-9-6: Prohibited Acts
6-9-7: Prohibited Acts, Handicapped Housing
6-9-8: Prohibited Acts, Financial
6-9-9: Exceptions
6-9-10: Administrator
6-9-11: Citizens Advisory Council
6-9-12: Complaints And Enforcement
6-9-13: Municipal Actions
6-9-14: Appeal
6-9-15: Remedy, Judicial Relief
6-9-16: Penalty, Fines
6-9-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as the FAIR HOUSING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 92-10, 4-6-
1992)
6-9-2: POLICY:
It is declared to be the public policy of this Municipality in the exercise of
its power to regulate for the protection of the public health, safety, morals
and welfare: to assure fair housing, a competitive real estate market, and
freedom from the effects of residential segregation by race, color, religion,
creed, ancestry, national origin, age, sex, familial status, or physical or
mental handicap, to promote population diversity in an open community, and to
secure to its citizens the economic, social and professional benefits of living
in a diverse society. (Ord. 92-10, 4-6-1992)
6-9-3: SEVERABILITY:
If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision of this
Chapter to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other provision of
this Chapter not specifically included in said judgment. If any court of
competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the application of any provision
of this Chapter to any person or circumstance, such judgment shall not affect
the application of said provision to any other person or circumstance not
specifically included in said judgment. (Ord. 92-10, 4-6-1992)
6-9-4: CONSTRUCTION:
This Chapter shall be construed according to the fair import of its terms, and
shall be liberally construed to further the purposes and policy stated and the
special purposes of the particular provisions involved. (Ord. 92-10, 4-6-1992)
6-9-5: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following terms have the following meanings:
ANSI A117.1-1986: The 1986 or most current edition of the American National
Standard for buildings and facilities providing accessibility and usability for
physically handicapped people.
ACCESSIBLE: When used with respect to the public and common use areas of a
building containing covered multi-family dwellings, means that the public or
common use areas of the building can be approached, entered, and used by
individuals with physical handicaps.
ACCESSIBLE ROUTE: A continuous unobstructed path connecting accessible elements
and spaces in a building or within a site that can be negotiated by a person
with a severe disability using a wheelchair and that is also safe for and
usable by people with other disabilities. A route that complies with the
appropriate requirements of the American National Standards Institute's ANSI
A117.1-1986 or a comparable standard is an "accessible route".
ADJUDICATIVE AGENCY: The agency designated by the President and Board of
Trustees of the Village to conduct hearings and adjudicate charges of
violations of this Chapter.
ADMINISTERING AGENCY: The agency designated by the President and Board of
Trustees of the Village to investigate, conciliate, receive and initiate
complaints pertaining to violation of this Chapter.
ADMINISTRATOR: The person designated by the President and Board of Trustees of
the Village to administer the provisions of this Chapter.
AFFIRMATIVE MARKETING: Special efforts designed to promote a competitive real
estate market free of practices or influences that would limit free housing
choice because of protected class status.
AGGRIEVED PARTY: A person who is alleged or proved to have been injured by a
civil rights violation or believes he or she will be injured by a civil rights
violation that is about to occur.
ANCESTRY: Descent or lineage from a person or group of persons.
BROKER: Any person authorized to perform an action on behalf of another person
regarding any matter related to the sale or rental of dwellings, including
offers, solicitation or contracts and the administration of matters regarding
such offers, solicitations or contracts of any residential real estate-related
transactions.
BUILDING: A structure, facility, or portion thereof that contains or serves one
or more dwelling units.
BUILDING ENTRANCE ON AN ACCESSIBLE ROUTE: An accessible entrance to a building
that is connected by an accessible route to public transportation stops, to
accessible parking and passenger loading zones, or to public streets or
sidewalks, if available.
CHARGE: An allegation filed with the Administering Agency by an aggrieved party
or initiated by the Council under its authority.
COMMON USE AREAS: Rooms, spaces or elements inside or outside of a building
that are made available for the use of residents of a building or the guests
thereof. These areas include hallways, lounges, lobbies, laundry rooms, refuse
rooms, mail rooms, recreational areas and passageways among and between
buildings.
COMMUNITY RESIDENCE: A specialized residential care home serving unrelated
persons with disabilities.
COMPLAINANT: A person including the Administering Agency who files a charge or
a complaint.
COMPLAINT: The document filed with the Administering Agency following an
investigation and finding of substantial evidence of a violation of this
Chapter.
CONCILIATION: The attempted resolution of issues raised by a charge, or the
investigation of such charge, through informal negotiations involving the
aggrieved party, the respondent and the Administering Agency.
CONCILIATION AGREEMENT: A written agreement setting forth the resolution of the
issues in conciliation.
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE: Any drug or other substance, or immediate precursor
included in the definition in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21
USC 802).
COUNCIL: The Citizens Advisory Council, the Administering Agency hereunder.
COVERED MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING: Buildings consisting of four (4) or more units
if such buildings have one or more elevators; and ground floor units in other
buildings consisting of four (4) or more units.
DISCRIMINATE: To treat differently any person because of race, color, religion,
creed, ancestry, marital status, national origin, age, sex, ancestry, sexual
orientation, familial status, or physical or mental handicap, or unfavorable
military discharge.
DWELLING: Any building structure or portion thereof which is occupied as, or
designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families or
unrelated individuals, and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease
for the construction or location thereon of any such building, structure or
portion thereof.
ELDERLY PERSON: A person fifty five (55) years of age or older.
ENTRANCE: Any access point to a building or portion of a building used by
residents for the purpose of entering.
EXTERIOR: All areas of the premises outside of an individual dwelling unit.
FAMILIAL STATUS: One or more individuals who have not attained the age of
eighteen (18) years being domiciled with:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â A parent or person having legal custody of such individual or
individuals; or
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The designee of such parent or other person having such custody, with
the written permission of such parent or other person; or
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Person who is pregnant or in the process of securing legal custody of
any individual who has not attained the age of eighteen (18).
FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: Any bank, credit union, insurance company, mortgage
banking company or savings and loan association or other entity or organization
which makes or purchases loans or provides other financial assistance which
operates or has a place of business in the State of Illinois.
HANDICAP: With respect to a person, a physical or mental impairment which
substantially limits one or more major life activities, a record of such an
impairment, or being regarded as having such an impairment.
HEARING: That part of an adjudicative proceeding that involves the submission
of evidence, either by oral presentation or written submission, and includes
the submission of briefs and oral arguments on the evidence and applicable law.
HEARING AGENCY: The agency designated by the President and Board of Trustees of
the Village to conduct hearings on, and adjudicate question of, ordinance
violations.
HOUSING ACCOMMODATION: Includes any improved or unimproved real property or
part thereof, which is used or occupied, or is intended, arranged or designed
to be used or occupied, as the home or residence of one or more individuals.
HOUSING FOR ELDERLY OR OLDER PERSONS: A. Housing provided under any State or
Federal program for elderly persons as defined by the specific programs,
providing U.S. HUD approval has been secured; or
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Housing that is intended for, and solely occupied by a person sixty two
(62) years of age or older; or
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Communities in which at least eighty percent (80%) of all units are
occupied by one person fifty five (55) years of age or older, if the existence
of significant facilities and services specifically designed to meet the
physical and social needs of an older person can be documented.
INTERIOR: The spaces, parts, components or elements of an individual dwelling
unit.
LEASE: Includes any sublease, assignment or rental and any contract to enter
into any of the foregoing.
LOAN: Includes, but is not limited to, the providing of funds, for
consideration, which are sought for:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a housing accommodation; or
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Any commercial or industrial purposes; or
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Secured by residential real estate.
MARITAL STATUS: The legal status of being married, single, separated, divorced
or widowed.
MODIFICATION: Any change to the public or common use areas of a building or any
change to a dwelling unit.
NATIONAL ORIGIN: The place in which a person or one of his or her ancestors was
born.
OFFER: Includes every attempt by means of written or oral communications to
present for acceptance or rejection, to hold out or proffer, to make a proposal
to; or to exhibit real estate that may be taken or received with the intention
of ultimately entering a real estate transaction.
OWNER: Any person who holds legal or equitable title to, or owns any beneficial
interest in any real estate, or who holds legal or equitable title to shares
of, or any beneficial interest in, an equity which owns any real estate.
PANIC PEDDLING: For profit, to induce or attempt to induce a person to sell or
rent a dwelling by representation regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular protected class.
PERSON: Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers, and fiduciaries.
PERSON IN THE BUSINESS OF SELLING OR RENTING DWELLINGS: Any person who:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Within the preceding twelve (12) months has participated as principal
in three (3) or more transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling
or any interest therein; or
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Within the preceding twelve (12) months, has participated as agent,
other than in the sale of his or her own personal residence, in providing sales
or rental facilities or sales or rental services in two (2) or more
transactions involving the sale or rental of any dwelling or interest therein;
or
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Is the owner of any dwelling designed or intended for occupancy by, or
is occupied by, three (3) or more families.
PHYSICAL OR MENTAL IMPAIRMENT: Includes:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any physiological disorder or condition, cosmetic disfigurement, or
anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems:
neurological, musculoskeletal; special sense organs; respiratory, including
speech organs; cardiovascular; reproductive; digestive; genitourinary; hemic
and lymphatic; skin; and endocrine; or
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Any mental or psychological disorder, such as mental retardation,
organic brain syndrome, emotional or mental illness, and specific learning
disabilities.
PREMISES: The interior or exterior spaces, part, components or elements of a
building, including individual dwelling units and the public and common use
areas of a building.
PROTECTED CLASS: In this Chapter includes, and shall be limited to, a person of
any particular race, color, religion, creed, ancestry, marital status, national
origin, age, sex, familial status, unfavorable military discharge, or physical
or mental handicap.
PUBLIC CONTRACT: Includes every contract to which the State of Illinois, any of
its political subdivisions or any municipal corporation is a party.
PUBLIC USE AREAS: Interior or exterior rooms or spaces of a building that are
made available to the general public. Public use may be provided at a building
that is privately or publicly owned.
PURCHASE: Includes any contract to purchase.
REAL ESTATE TRANSACTION: The purchase, sale or fee or equitable title to, or
beneficial interest in, or rental or lease of, any real property, or an option
to do any of the foregoing, or any negotiation, listing, contract, or agreement
in connection therewith; also includes the brokering or appraising of
residential real property and the making or purchasing of loans or providing
other financial assistance for purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing
or maintaining a dwelling or secured by residential real estate.
REAL PROPERTY: Includes buildings, structures, real estate, lands, tenements,
lease holds, interests in real estate cooperatives, condominiums, and
hereditaments, corporeal and incorporeal, or any interest therein.
RELIGION: Includes all constitutionally guaranteed aspects of religious
observance and practice, as well as belief.
RENT: Includes to lease, to sublease, to let, and to otherwise grant for
consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
RESPONDENT: A. The person or other entity against whom a discriminatory housing
practice has been alleged in a complaint; or
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Any other person or entity identified in the course of investigation
and notified as required under Section
6-9-12 of this Chapter.
SEX: The status of being male or female.
SOLICIT OR SOLICITATION: Any communication by or on behalf of a real estate
agent with the owner or occupant of a dwelling:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Which is intended to induce the sale or rental of such dwelling; or
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Which is intended to offer or promote services in connection with the
sale, rental or listing of such dwelling; and
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Which is carried out by means of:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â In-person contacts at the dwelling; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Written material mailed or delivered directly to the dwelling, such
as direct mail, leaflet or pamphlets; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Telephone contact with owners or occupants of the dwelling.
For purposes of this Chapter, the term "solicit" or "solicitation" shall not
refer to communication carried out by means of print or electronic media of
general circulation, such as a newspaper, radio, television, or the yellow
pages.
STEERING: Influencing or attempting to influence a person by any words or acts
in connection with viewing, buying or leasing of real estate so as to promote,
or tend to promote, the continuance or maintenance of segregated housing; or so
as to limit or otherwise make unavailable housing choice; or so as to retard,
obstruct or discourage diversity in the community in part or in whole; or so as
to limit or otherwise make unavailable any types of loans or financing
available in the purchase of any real property.
VARYING TERMS: Includes, but is not limited to, the following practices:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Requiring a greater down payment than is usual for the particular type
or a loan involved.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Requiring a shorter period of amortization than is usual for the
particular type of loan involved.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Charging a higher interest rate than is usual for the particular type
of loan involved.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Underappraising of real estate or other item of property offered as
security. (Ord. 92-10, 4-6-1992)
6-9-6: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be unlawful to:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Discriminatory Terms: Discriminate against any person in the terms,
conditions, or privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision
of services or facilities in connection therewith, on the basis of any
protected class.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Refusal To Negotiate, Deal, Sell Or Rent: Refuse to sell or rent, after
the making of a bona fide offer, or to refuse to negotiate for the sale or
rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or deny, a dwelling to any person on
the basis of any protected class.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Withholding Dwellings: Represent to any person on the basis of any
protected class that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale, or
rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Advertisement, Signs, Notices: Make, print, circulate, or publish, or
cause to be made, printed or published, any written or oral notice, statement,
or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a dwelling that
indicates any preference, limitation, or discrimination on the basis of any
protected class or an intention to make such preference, limitation, or
discrimination.
Discriminatory notices, statements, and advertisements shall not be used to
discourage marketing housing availability to groups underrepresented in the
community or to limit a competitive housing market or free housing choice in
the community and shall include, but not be limited to:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Using words, phrases, photographs, illustrations, symbols or forms
which convey that dwellings are available or not available to a particular
group of persons on the basis of any protected class.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Expressing to agents, brokers, employees, prospective sellers or
renters or any other persons a preference for or limitation on any purchaser or
renter on the basis of any protected class of such persons.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Selecting media or locations for advertising the sale or rental of
dwellings which deny particular segments of the housing market information
about housing opportunities on the basis of protected class of such persons.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Refusing to publish advertising for the sale or rental of dwellings
or requiring different charges or terms for such advertising on the basis of
protected class.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Lending And Lending Terms: Discriminate in connection with borrowing or
lending money, guaranteeing loans, accepting mortgages, or otherwise financing
a real estate transaction on the basis of protected class of such person.
Discriminate by denying, or delaying the processing of, a loan or other
financial assistance to a person applying therefor, the purpose of purchasing,
constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining real estate, or discriminate
in the fixing of the amount, interest rate, duration, other terms and
conditions of such loan or other financial assistance.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Qualification Criteria: Use different qualification criteria or
applications, or sale or rental standards or procedures, such as income
standards, application requirements, application fees, credit analysis or sale
or rental approval procedures or other requirements, on the basis of protected
class of such person.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Appraising/Insurance: Discriminate in appraising the value or real
estate or in the sale of insurance in connection with a real estate transaction
on the basis of protected class of the person.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Varying Rents/Sale Price: Impose different sales prices or rental
charges for the sale or rental of a dwelling upon any person on the basis of
protected class.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Eviction: Evict tenants on the basis of protected class of such person
or of his or her guests.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Panic Peddling: For profit, induce or attempt to induce a person to
sell or rent a dwelling by representation regarding the entry or prospective
entry into the neighborhood of a person or persons of any particular protected
class.
Prohibited actions under this Section include, but are not limited to:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Engaging for profit in conduct (including uninvited real estate
solicitations) which conveys to a person that a neighborhood has undergone, is
undergoing, or is about to undergo a change in the race, color, religion,
national origin, age, sex, familial status of persons residing in it, in order
to encourage persons to offer a dwelling for sale or rental.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Encouraging for profit, any person to sell or rent a dwelling
through assertions that the entry or prospective entry of person of any
particular protected class can or will result in undesirable consequences for
the project, neighborhood or community, such as lowering or decreasing
appreciation of property values, an increase in criminal or antisocial
behavior, or a decline in the quality of schools or other services or
facilities.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Listings: Enter into a listing agreement which discriminates against
any person because of protected class of such person.
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â Discrimination In Membership Or Services: Deny any person access to or
membership or participation in any multiple- listing service, real estate
brokers' organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting dwellings or to discriminate against any such access, membership or
participation on account of any protected class.
Â Â Â M.Â Â Â Steering: Restrict or attempt to restrict, because of protected class,
the choices of a person by words or acts in connection with buying or renting a
dwelling so as to perpetuate, or tend to perpetuate, segregated housing
patterns, or to discourage or obstruct housing choice.
Prohibited actions under this subsection, which are generally referred to as
unlawful steering practices, include, but are not limited to, the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Discouraging any person from inspecting, purchasing or renting a
dwelling because of protected class in a community, neighborhood or
development, so as to perpetuate, or tend to perpetuate, segregated housing
patterns, or to discourage or obstruct housing choice.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Discouraging the purchase or rental of a dwelling because of
protected class by exaggerating drawbacks or minimizing or failing to inform
any person of desirable features of a dwelling or of a community, neighborhood
or development, so as to perpetuate, or tend to perpetuate, segregated housing
patterns, or to discourage or obstruct housing choice.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Communicating to any prospective purchaser or tenant that he or she
would not be comfortable or compatible with existing residents of a community,
neighborhood or development because of protected class so as to perpetuate, or
tend to perpetuate, segregated housing patterns, or to discourage or obstruct
housing choice.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Assigning any person to a particular section of a community,
neighborhood or development, or to a particular floor of a building, because of
protected class, so as to perpetuate, or tend to perpetuate, segregated housing
patterns, or to discourage or obstruct housing choice.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Failing to inform any person of available housing opportunities in a
particular section of a community, neighborhood or development, or in a
particular building or particular floor of a building, because of protected
class, so as to perpetuate, or tend to perpetuate, segregated housing patterns,
or to discourage or obstruct housing choice.
Â Â Â N.Â Â Â Participation: Act or undertake to act as a real estate broker,
salesperson, or agent with respect to any dwelling, the disposition of which
requires said person to participate in discrimination.
Â Â Â O.Â Â Â Restrictions: Perform any act of discrimination with the intention or
effect of restricting or limiting the housing or financing choice of any
person.
Â Â Â P.Â Â Â Aid And Abetting: Aid or abet acts performed in violation of this
Chapter.
Â Â Â Q.Â Â Â Interference, Coercion, Or Intimidation: Coerce, intimidate, threaten
or interfere with any person in the exercise or enjoyment of, or on account of
his or her having aided or encouraged any other person in the exercise or
enjoyment of, any right granted or protected by this Chapter.
Â Â Â R.Â Â Â Solicitation: Solicit any owner to sell or rent or list residential
property at any time after such person has notice that such owner does not
desire to sell, rent, or list such residential property. For the purposes of
this subsection, notice must be provided as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The notice may be given by the owner personally or by a third party
in the owner's name, either in the form of an individual notice of a list,
provided it complies with subsection R2 of this Section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Such notice shall be explicit as to whether each owner on the notice
seeks to avoid both solicitation for listing and sale, or only for listing, or
only for sale, as well as the period of time for which any avoidance is
desired. The notice shall be dated and either of the following shall apply:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Each owner shall have signed the notice; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The person or entity preparing the notice shall provide an
accompanying affidavit to the effect that all the names on the notice are, in
fact, genuine as to the identity of the persons listed and that such person
have requested not to be solicited as indicated.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The Village Clerk shall publish and make available, without charge,
appropriate forms which may be executed by any owner or occupant of a dwelling
to provide such notice. The Clerk shall prepare a list of the names and
addresses of such owners and occupants and shall update such list no less than
annually during the month of January and shall publish the same as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â By maintaining a copy of said list in the office of the Village
Clerk and making it available for inspection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â By furnishing a copy of said list annually to every real estate
firm belonging to the local multiple-listing service.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â By furnishing a copy of said list upon request and payment of
reproduction costs to any person having an interest in the sale or rental of
any dwelling in the Village. (Ord. 92-10, 4-6-1992)
6-9-7: PROHIBITED ACTS, HANDICAPPED HOUSING:
In addition to those prohibited acts identified in Sections
6-9-6 and
6-9-8 of this Chapter, it shall be unlawful to:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Discrimination Against The Handicapped: To discriminate against any
person in the terms, conditions, or privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling,
or in the provision of services of facilities in connection with such dwelling,
because of a handicap of:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â That buyer or renter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A person residing in or intending to reside in that dwelling after
it is so sold, rented, or made available; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Any person associated with that person.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Unit Modification: Refuse to permit, at the expense of the handicapped
person, reasonable modifications of existing premises occupied or to be
occupied by such person if such modifications may be necessary to afford such
person full enjoyment of the premises; except that, in the case of a rental,
the landlord may, where it is reasonable to do so, condition permission for a
modification on the renter agreeing to restore the interior of the premises to
the condition that existed before the modifications, reasonable wear and tear
excepted.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Rules And Policies: Refuse to make reasonable accommodations in rules,
policies, practices, or services, when such accommodations may be necessary to
afford such person equal opportunity to use and enjoy the dwelling.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â New Construction: Failure to design and construct dwellings constructed
after March 13, 1991, in such a manner that:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The public use and common use portions of such dwellings are readily
accessible to and usable by handicapped persons;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â All the doors designed to allow passage into and within all premises
within such dwellings are sufficiently wide to allow passage by handicapped
persons in wheelchairs; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â All premises within such dwellings contain the following features of
adaptive design:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â An accessible route into and through the dwelling;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Light switches, electrical outlets, thermostats, and other
environmental controls in accessible locations;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Reinforcements in bathroom walls to allow installation of grab
bars; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Usable kitchens and bathrooms such that an individual in a
wheelchair can maneuver about the space.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Guide/Support Dogs: Refusal to sell or rent because a person has a
guide, hearing, or support dog. It is a violation for the owner or agent of any
housing accommodation to:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny property to any blind, hearing-impaired or physically handicapped person
because he has a guide, hearing, or support dog; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Discriminate against any blind, hearing-impaired, or physically
handicapped person in the terms, conditions, or privileges of sale or rental
property, or in the provision of services of facilities in connection
therewith, because he or she has a guide, hearing or support dog; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Require, because a blind, hearing-impaired, or physically
handicapped person has a guide, hearing, or support dog, an extra charge in a
lease, rental agreement, or contract of purchase or sale, other than for actual
damage done to the premises by the dog. (Ord. 92-10, 4-6-1992)
6-9-8: PROHIBITED ACTS, FINANCIAL:
In addition to those prohibited acts identified in Sections
6-9-6 and
6-9-7 of this Chapter, it shall be a violation for any financial institution,
on the grounds of unlawful discrimination to:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Deny any person any of the services normally offered by such an
institution.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Provide any person with any service which is different from, or
provided in a different manner than, that which is provided to other persons
similarly situated.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Deny or vary the terms of a loan on the basis of protected class.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Deny or vary the terms of a loan on the basis that a specific parcel of
real estate offered as security is located in a specific geographical area.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Deny or vary the terms of a loan without having considered all or the
regular and dependable income of each person who would be liable for repayment
of the loan.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Utilize lending standards that have no economic basis and which
constitute unlawful discrimination.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Refuse to purchase or impose different terms or conditions on loans or
other debts or securities which support the purchase, construction,
improvement, repair or maintenance of a dwelling, or which are secured by
residential real estate on the basis of protected class. (Ord. 92-10, 4-6-1992)
6-9-9: EXCEPTIONS:
Nothing in this Chapter shall:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Single-Family Dwellings: Apply to the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The rental, lease, or occupancy of a room in an owner- occupied
single-family dwelling, provided the following conditions are met:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The owner does not own or have any interest in three (3) or more
single-family houses at any one time.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The house is sold or rented without the use of a real estate
broker, agent or salesperson or the facilities of any person in the business of
selling or renting dwellings.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than two (2) families living independently
of each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his or her residence.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Religious, Nonprofit Groups: Prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization or
society from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of dwellings which it owns
or operates for other than commercial purposes to persons of the same religion,
or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in such religion
is restricted on account of race, color, ancestry, national origin, age, or
handicap.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Private Clubs: Prohibit a private club not in fact open to the public,
which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides lodgings which
it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, from limiting the
rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members and their guests or from
giving preference to its members.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Senior Citizen And Handicapped Housing: Prohibit the rental or sale of
a dwelling on the basis of age or handicap when such dwelling is authorized,
approved, financed, or subsidized in whole or in part by a unit of State,
local, or Federal government.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Maximum Occupancy: Apply to local, State, or Federal restrictions
regarding the maximum number of occupants permitted to occupy a dwelling.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Drug-Related Offense: Require the rental or sale of a unit to any
person convicted of the illegal manufacture, distribution or use of a
controlled substance.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Housing For Elderly Or Older Persons: Apply to housing for elderly or
older persons.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Appraisals: Prohibit a person engaged in the business of furnishing
appraisals of real property from taking into consideration factors other than
protected class.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Underwriting Practices: Prohibit financial institutions from
considering sound underwriting practices in contemplation of any loan to any
person. Such practices shall include:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The willingness and the financial ability of the borrower to repay
the loan.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The market value of any real estate or other item of property
proposed as security for any loan.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Diversification of the financial institution's investment portfolio.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Maintenance Of Records: Prohibit any person from maintaining records in
furtherance of the purposes of this Chapter.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Affirmative Marketing: Apply to affirmative marketing plans or
programs. (Ord. 92-10, 4-6-1992)
6-9-10: ADMINISTRATOR:
An administrator of this Chapter shall be appointed by the President of the
Village with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. The
Administrator, who may hold another position in the Village, shall have such
duties and responsibilities as are provided in this Chapter and additionally as
may be provided by the President and Board of Trustees of the Village. (Ord.
92-10, 4-6-1992)
6-9-11: CITIZENS ADVISORY COUNCIL:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Creation: There is hereby created a Citizens Advisory Council
(hereinafter, Council) consisting of no more than eleven (11) members appointed
by the President of the Village with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees. All of the members shall be residents of the Municipality. A
chairperson and vice chairperson shall be elected annually by vote of a
majority of the Council. In the first term of appointment three (3) members
shall serve for three (3) years, four (4) members shall serve for two (2)
years, and four (4) members shall serve for one year. Subsequent terms of
appointment shall be for three (3) years.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Duties: The Council's duties shall include, but shall not be limited
to, the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Advising elected officials and staff and making recommendations on
community matters.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Assisting elected officials and staff as an educational arm of the
Municipality on community matters to all persons, groups, and institutions in
the community.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Performing as a catalyst in promoting a better quality of life for
all residents in the community.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Acting as a bridge between Municipal government, citizens and
community groups.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Gathering and providing for the exchange of information relative to
the provisions of this Chapter among real estate brokers and salespersons,
lenders, developers, employers, Municipal officials and community groups within
and without the Municipality.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Counseling of prospective residents in accordance with the policy
and provisions of this Chapter and maintaining a list of counseling sources
approved by the Municipality.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Adopting, promulgating, amending and rescinding rules and
regulations of procedures for handling complaints of discrimination in housing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Receiving and reviewing complaints charging discrimination in
housing, seeking conciliation of such complaints and compliance with this
Chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Performing as the Hearing Agency; holding hearings and making
findings of fact and making recommendations in accordance with the provisions
of this Chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â Performing as the Adjudicative Agency.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â Performing further duties as may be assigned by the President and
Board of Trustees.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Powers: The Council shall have power to:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Administer oaths and take sworn testimony at hearings.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Subpoena witnesses and pertinent documents, and its subpoena power
may be enforced by proper petition to any court of competent jurisdiction.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Issue orders and impose fines and penalties.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Require all persons subject to the application of this Chapter to
maintain such records as may be necessary to demonstrate compliance with the
provisions of this Chapter.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Public Meetings: All Council meetings shall be open to the public
except those for the purpose of conciliating complaints of discrimination.
(Ord. 92-10, 4-6-1992)
6-9-12: COMPLAINTS AND ENFORCEMENT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Charge: Proceedings under this Chapter shall be commenced by filing a
verified complaint with the Administrator within one hundred eighty (180) days
of the alleged violation. The complaint shall be submitted on the form set
forth below, to be provided by the Clerk of the Municipality and shall contain
a short and plain statement of the alleged violation, the name and address of
the person charged, and shall be signed by the aggrieved party or by the
Adjudicative Agency by its chairperson or vice chairperson. The aggrieved party
may be assisted in the filing of a complaint by a member or members of the
Adjudicative Agency.
Within fifteen (15) calendar days after the complaint is filed, the
Administrator shall review the complaint to determine whether the allegations
contained therein, if true, would constitute a violation of this Chapter.
The Administrator shall notify the Adjudicative Agency of his or her
determination, and recommend to the Adjudicative Agency what, if any, further
action should be taken.
The Adjudicative Agency shall review the complaint and the determination and
recommendation of the Administrator. Within twenty (20) calendar days after the
complaint is filed, the Council shall decide whether the allegations of the
complaint, if true, constitute a violation of this Chapter.
If the Council decides that the allegations do not constitute a violation, it
shall order that the complaint be dismissed. If the Council decides that the
allegations do constitute a violation, it shall order that an investigation and
hearing be held on the merits of the complaint.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Notice Of Charge: Within thirty (30) calendar days after the complaint
is filed, the Administrator shall serve a copy of the complaint personally or
by certified mail, return receipt requested, on the person charged and shall
furnish copies thereof to the Adjudicative Agency. If in the judgment of the
Administrator immediate court action is advisable, he or she shall so notify
the Adjudicative Agency.
The Administrator shall also, within thirty (30) days of the date on which the
charge was filed, send written notice to the complainant informing the
complainant of his or her option to file a complaint with the Illinois Human
Rights Commission, including the dates within which the complainant may
exercise such option.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Injunctive Relief: At any time after a complaint is filed and
determined to constitute a violation of this Chapter, the administering agency
may petition the appropriate court for temporary relief, pending final
determination of the proceedings under this Chapter, including an order or
decree restraining the respondent from doing or causing any act which would
render ineffectual a recommendation with respect to the complaint. Such
petition shall contain a certification by the Administrator that the particular
matter presents exceptional circumstances in which irreparable injury will
result from a violation of this Chapter in the absence of temporary relief.
The petition shall be filed in the circuit court for the county in which the
respondent resides or transacts business or in which the alleged violation took
place.
When the petition is based upon a civil rights violation as defined in this
Chapter, any relief or restraining order entered by the court shall not exceed
five (5) calendar days unless:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A longer period is agreed to by the respondent; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The court finds that there is substantial evidence to demonstrate
that the respondent has engaged in violations of this Chapter.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Respondent Response: The respondent shall serve a verified response
copy of its response to all allegations contained in the charge within ten (10)
days of the date on which the respondent was served copy of the complaint.
The Administrator shall issue a notice of default directed to any respondent
who fails to file a verified response to a charge within ten (10) days of the
date on which the complainant was served, unless the respondent can demonstrate
good cause as to why such notice should be issued.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Complainant Response: Within ten (10) calendar days of the date he or
she receives the respondent's response, the complainant may file a reply to
said response. If he or she chooses to file a reply, the complainant shall
serve a copy of said reply on the respondent or his representative. A party
shall have the right to supplement his or her response or reply at any time
that the investigation of the charge is pending.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Investigation: The chairperson of the Adjudicative Agency shall order a
prompt investigation of the complaint, completing such an investigation within
one hundred (100) calendar days after the filing of the charge.
The Administrator or his or her designated representatives shall have authority
to request any member of the Council to issue subpoenas to compel the
attendance of a witness or the production for examination of any books,
records, or documents whatsoever.
If any witness whose testimony is required for any investigation resides
outside the Municipality, or through illness or any other good cause as
determined by the Administrator is unable to be interviewed by the investigator
or appear at a fact-finding conference, his or her testimony or deposition may
be taken, within or without the Municipality, in the same manner as is provided
for in the taking of depositions in civil cases in circuit courts.
Upon reasonable notice to the complainant and the respondent, the Administrator
shall conduct a fact- finding conference, unless prior to one hundred (100)
calendar days of the date on which the charge was filed, the administering
agency or Administrator has determined whether there is substantial evidence
that the alleged ordinance violation has been committed.
A party's failure to attend the conference without good cause may result in
dismissal or default. A notice of dismissal or default shall be issued by the
Administrator and shall notify the relevant party that a request for review may
be filed in writing with the Administrator within thirty (30) calendar days of
receipt of notice of dismissal or default.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Conciliation: During the period beginning with the filing of charges
and ending with the filing of a complaint (decision) or a dismissal, the
Administrator shall, to the extent feasible, engage in conciliation with
respect to such charge.
When the Administrator determines that conciliation is feasible, the
complainant and respondent shall be notified of time and place of the
conciliation meeting by registered or certified mail at least seven (7)
calendar days prior thereto and either or both parties shall appear at the
meeting in person or by attorney.
The Administrator shall attempt by all accepted methods of conciliation and
lawful persuasion to resolve the grievance delineated in the complaint.
A conciliation agreement arising out of such conciliation shall be an agreement
between the respondent and the complainant, and shall be subject to approval by
the Administrator and the Adjudicative Agency.
A conciliation may provide for binding arbitration of the dispute arising from
the charge. Any such arbitration that results from a conciliation agreement,
may award appropriate relief, including monetary relief.
Each conciliation agreement shall be made public unless the complainant and
respondent otherwise agree and the Administrator determines that disclosure is
not required to further the purpose of this Chapter.
If, within sixty (60) calendar days after a charge has been received or
initiated by the administering agency, the Administrator determines that
attempts at conciliation would not be in furtherance of the objectives of this
Chapter, or that the complaint cannot be resolved by conciliation, the
Administrator shall so report to the Adjudicative Agency.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Hearing On A Complaint: The Adjudicative Agency shall, upon due and
reasonable notice to all parties, conduct a fact-finding conference (hearing on
complaint). All parties shall be entitled to be represented by legal counsel,
and shall have the right to call witnesses in their own behalf and to cross-
examine witnesses. All parties to the proceedings may apply to the Adjudicative
Agency to have subpoenas issued in the name of the Adjudicative Agency.
Testimony taken at the hearing shall be under oath or affirmation and a
transcript shall be made and filed in the office of the Administrator.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Report Of Decision: Each investigated charge shall be the subject of a
report to the Adjudicative Agency. The report shall be a confidential document
subject to review by the Administrator, authorized employees of the
Municipality, the parties, and where indicated by this Chapter by members of
the commission or their designated hearing officers. Such report must be
completed within one hundred (100) calendar days after a charge has been filed.
The report shall contain:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The names and dates of contacts with witnesses.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A summary and the dates of correspondence and other contact with the
complainant and the respondent.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A summary description of other pertinent records.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â A summary of witness statements.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Answers to questionnaires.
A final report under this Section may be amended if additional evidence is
later discovered.
Upon review of the report and within one hundred (100) calendar days after the
filing of the charge, unless it is impracticable to do so, the Administrator
shall determine whether there is substantial evidence that the alleged
ordinance violation has been committed or is about to be committed.
If the Adjudicative Agency is unable to make the determination within one
hundred (100) calendar days after the filing of the charge, the Administrator
shall notify the complainant and respondent in writing of the reasons for not
doing so.
If the Adjudicative Agency determines that there is no substantial evidence,
the charge shall be dismissed and the complainant notified that he or she may
seek review of the dismissal order before the Adjudicative Agency. The
complainant shall have thirty (30) calendar days from receipt of notice to file
a request for review by the Adjudicative Agency. The Administrator shall make
public disclosure of each such dismissal.
If the Adjudicative Agency determines that there is substantial evidence he or
she shall immediately issue a decision on behalf of the complainant.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Settlement And Dismissal: A settlement of any charge prior to the
filing of a decision may be effectuated at any time upon agreement of the
parties and the approval of the Administrator. The settlement of any charge
after the filing of a decision shall be effectuated as specified in subsection
I of this Section.
Settlements of charges prior to a decision shall be reduced to writing by the
Administrator, signed by the parties, and submitted by the Administrator to the
Adjudicative Agency for approval. Settlements of charges after a decision shall
be effectuated as specified in subsection I of this Section.
When either party alleges that a settlement order has been violated, the
Administrator shall conduct an investigation into the matter. If substantial
evidence demonstrates that a settlement has been violated, the Administrator
shall refer the matter to the Municipal attorney for enforcement in the circuit
court in which the respondent or complainant resides or transacts business or
in which the alleged violation took place.
The Administrator may dismiss a charge if it is satisfied that:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The respondent has eliminated the effects of this Chapter violation
charged and has taken steps to prevent its repetition.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The respondent offers and the complainant declines to accept terms
of settlement which the Administrator finds are sufficient to eliminate the
effects of the civil rights violation charged and prevent its repetition.
In determining whether the respondent has eliminated the effects of the
ordinance violation charged, or has offered terms of settlement sufficient to
eliminate same, the Administrator shall consider the extent to which the
respondent has either fully provided, or reasonably offered by ways of terms of
settlement, as the case may be, the relevant relief available to the
complainant under this subsection J.
When the Administrator dismisses a charge under this Section, he or she shall
notify the complainant that he or she may seek review of the dismissal order
before the Adjudicative Agency. The complainant shall have thirty (30) calendar
days from receipt of notice to file a request for review by the Adjudicative
Agency. (Ord. 92-10, 4-6-1992)
6-9-13: MUNICIPAL ACTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Complaint Referral: The President and Board of Trustees may refer any
potential or apparent violation of this Chapter to the Adjudicative Agency for
investigation, findings, and recommendations.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Hearing Recommendations: Upon receipt of any report finding a
respondent in violation of the provisions of this Chapter, and after
consideration thereof at a public meeting, the President and Trustees, within
thirty (30) calendar days following receipt of such report, shall take action
as it deems proper, in addition to the penalties provided elsewhere in this
Chapter, including, but not limited to:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Initiating an appropriate court action for injunctive relief under
this Chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Initiating an appropriate court action for enforcement of this
Chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Filing of proceedings for violation of this Chapter or Federal or
State regulations against any person found to have violated the provisions of
this Chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Filing of a petition against any person found in violation of the
provisions of this Chapter whole under contract to the State or Federal
government, political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Filing of a complaint with the Department of Professional Regulation
of the State against any person found in violation of the provisions of this
Chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Assessment of fines as provided in Section
6-9-16 of this Chapter. (Ord. 92-10, 4-6-1992)
6-9-14: APPEAL:
Any persons aggrieved by the decision of the Adjudicative Agency, shall have
the right to appeal in accordance with the following procedures:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Initial reconsideration by the full Board of the Adjudicative Agency is
required. This appeal shall be initiated by filing with the Administrator,
within seven (7) calendar days of the decision, a written statement, under
oath, setting forth specifically the grounds for reconsideration. These grounds
shall be supported by argument and served on all parties at the time they are
filed with the Administrator. The Adjudicative Agency, after reviewing the
statement shall:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Render a revised decision notifying all parties within fourteen (14)
calendar days of the filing of the statement for initial consideration; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Issue and serve on all parties a written order for rehearing the
case, citing the cause and additional evidence; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Uphold the decision.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Appeal to the President and Trustees in cases where the Adjudicative
Agency has been upheld. The appeal shall be initiated within seven (7) calendar
days of the initial decision or the upholding of the initial decision, by
filing with the Adjudicative Agency a written statement as delineated in
subsection A1 of this Section. After reviewing the statement and hearing
record, the President and Trustees shall:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Render a revised decision notifying all parties within thirty (30)
calendar days of the filing of the appeal statement; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Issue and serve on all parties a written order for rehearing the
case, citing the cause and additional evidence; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Uphold the decision of the Adjudicative Agency.
The decision of the President and Trustees on such appeals shall be final.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â After a decision by the President and Trustees the aggrieved person may
apply for judicial review under writ of certiori. (Ord. 92-10, 4-6-1992)
6-9-15: REMEDY, JUDICIAL RELIEF:
Any person aggrieved by the violation of any provision of this Chapter, who has
exhausted the remedies provided by this Chapter, may apply to any court of
competent jurisdiction, not later than two (2) years after the occurrence of an
alleged civil rights violation or the breach of a conciliation or settlement
agreement, for appropriate relief from such violation, including:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â An order compelling compliance with this Chapter; or
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Compensatory/punitive damages; or
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Such other further relief as may seem appropriate to the court for the
enforcement of this Chapter and the elimination of violations thereof; or
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Temporary restraining order whereby the respondent is kept from doing
or causing any act which would be a violation of this Chapter; or
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â The Attorney General may commence a civil action in any appropriate
United States District Court for appropriate relief. (Ord. 92-10, 4-6-1992)
6-9-16: PENALTY, FINES:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall be fined not less than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation. Each day that a violation
exists shall be deemed a separate violation. (Ord. 92-10, 4-6-1992)
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Terms Defined
7-1-1: TERMS DEFINED:
For the purpose of this Title, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this Section:
ALLEY: A public way within a block, generally giving access to the rear of lots
or buildings, and not used for general traffic circulation.
BICYCLE: Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having two (2) tandem wheels either of which is more than twenty inches (20")
in diameter.
BUSINESS DISTRICT: The territory within the Village contiguous to and including
a street or highway when, within any six hundred feet (600') along such
highway, there are buildings in use for business or industrial purposes,
including, but not limited to, hotels, banks, office buildings, railroad
stations and public buildings which occupy at least three hundred feet (300')
of frontage on one side or three hundred feet (300') collectively on both sides
of the street or highway.
CROSSWALK: That portion of the roadway included within the prolongation of the
sidewalk lines at street intersections.
DRIVER: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Police vehicles, vehicles of the Fire Department,
ambulances, vehicles carrying a State, County, or Municipal officer or employee
in response to an emergency call and emergency vehicles of a public service
corporation on an emergency call.
EXPLOSIVE: Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is commonly used or
intended for the purpose of producing an explosion and which contains any
oxidizing and combustive units or other ingredients in such proportions,
quantities or packing that on ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by
percussion or by detonation of any part of the compound or mixture may cause
such a sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous
pressures are capable of producing destructible effects on contiguous objects
or of destroying life or limb.
FARM TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm
implement for drawing plows, mowing machines and other implements of husbandry.
FLAMMABLE LIQUID: Any liquid which has a flash point of seventy degrees
Fahrenheit (70Â°F) or less, as determined by tableau or equivalent closed cup
test device.
IMPROVED HIGHWAY: A roadway of concrete, brick, asphalt, macadam or gravel.
INTERSECTION: The area embraced within the prolongation of the property lines
of two (2) or more streets which join at an angle, whether or not such streets
cross.
LANED ROADWAY: A street, the roadway of which is divided into two (2) or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
LOADING ZONE: The space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
MERGING TRAFFIC: A maneuver executed by the drivers of vehicles on converging
roadways to permit simultaneous or alternate entry into the junction thereof,
wherein the driver of each vehicle involved is required to adjust his vehicular
speed and lateral position so as to avoid a collision with any other vehicle.
METAL TIRES: Every tire, the surface of which in contact with the roadway, is
wholly or partially of metal or other hard, nonresilient material.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which is
propelled by electric power obtained from overhead wires but not operated upon
rails.
MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
PARK: To stand a vehicle, whether occupied or not, for a period of time grater
than is reasonably necessary for the actual loading or unloading of persons.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
PNEUMATIC TIRE: Every tire in which compressed air is designed to support the
load.
PROPERTY LINE: The line marking the boundary between any street and the lots or
property abutting thereon.
PUBLIC BUILDING: A building used by the Municipality, the County, any park
district, school district, the State or the United States Government.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
ROAD TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other vehicles
and not so constructed as to carry any load thereon either independently or any
part of the weight of a vehicle or load so drawn.
SAFETY ZONE: That portion of a roadway reserved for the exclusive use of
pedestrians, suitably marked or elevated.
SCHOOL BUS: Every motor vehicle of the second division operated by or for a
public or governmental agency or by or for a private or religious organization
solely for the transportation of pupils in connection with school activities.
SCHOOL CROSSING SIGNAL: A permanently mounted, electrically operated signal
device equipped with two-way, two (2) color (red and yellow) signal heads,
together with a diamond shaped, single-faced sign reading "School Crossing", by
which at predetermined times and when actuated by push button, traffic is
directed to stop so as to permit school children to cross the street or highway
safely.
SEMITRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying person or
property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that some
part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is carried by another
vehicle.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb line or roadway and the
adjacent property line designated for pedestrian use.
SOLID TIRE: Every tire of rubber or other resilient material which does not
depend upon compressed air for the support of the load.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between property lines of each side or
place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public, as a matter of right, for the purpose of vehicular traffic and each way
set aside for public travel by vehicles.
TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other conveyances
either singly or together while using any highway for the purpose of travel.
TRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying passengers or
property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that no part
of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
TRUCK TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
URBAN DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including any street which is
built upon with structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling houses
situated at intervals of less than one hundred feet (100') for a distance of a
quarter mile or more.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway except devices moving by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
YIELD RIGHT OF WAY: When required by an official sign, means the act of
granting the privilege of the immediate use of the intersecting roadway to
traffic within the intersection and to vehicles approaching from the right or
left; provided, that when the roadway is clear, the vehicle may proceed into
the intersection. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 2
VEHICLE LICENSE
SECTION:
7-2-1: License Required
7-2-1-1: Application For License; Issuance
7-2-2: Display Of Vehicle License Sticker
7-2-3: License Fees
7-2-4: Payment And Use Of Fees; Term Of License
7-2-5: Penalty
7-2-6: Violations Subject To Penalties
7-2-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Every motor vehicle or motorcycle owned or operated by a resident of the
Village or by a business located within the Village, shall be required to pay
each year to the Village Collector, a tax or license fee for the use of each
motor vehicle or motorcycle used on any public street or highway within the
Village. (Ord. 92-24, 8-17-1992)
7-2-1-1: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; ISSUANCE:
Every owner or operator of a motor vehicle or motorcycle subject to the tax or
license fee under this chapter shall make application with the Village
Collector upon the appropriate form or forms furnished by the Collector setting
forth the name and address of the applicant and a description of the motor
vehicle or motorcycle and such further information as may reasonably be
required. Upon the payment by the applicant of the license fee herein provided,
the Village Collector shall issue or cause to be issued a license authorizing
the use of such motor vehicle or motorcycle within the Village until the
expiration of such license. (Ord. 92-24, 8-17-1992)
7-2-2: DISPLAY OF VEHICLE LICENSE STICKER:
Every owner or operator of a motor vehicle or motorcycle issued a vehicle
license sticker shall prominently display such sticker in the lower right hand
corner of the windshield. Such stickers shall be numbered serially and shall
bear the number and year for which the license is issued.
License stickers issued to dealers in motor vehicles or vehicles held for sale
and used only for demonstrations may be transferred to any other vehicle so
held and used by the same dealer in the Village; provided, that such dealers
shall procure one license for each vehicle so held at any one time during the
year. (Ord. 90-13, 11-19-1990)
7-2-3: LICENSE FEES:
The annual license fees to be paid the Village for motor vehicles, automobiles,
trucks, tractors, semitrailer units, buses, motorcycles, motor bicycles,
recreational vehicles and boat trailers are as follows:
Category                                                             Fee
Passenger automobiles                                                $25.00
Passenger automobiles owned by a person 65 years of age or older (up
to 2 automobiles per household - additional automobiles shall be     10.00
charged the applicable fee for said vehicle)
Passenger automobiles owned by a military veteran1 or the widow or
widower of a military veteran (up to 1 automobile per veteran or
widow/widower - additional automobiles shall be charged the          No charge
applicable fee for said vehicle, i.e., $25.00, unless veteran/widow/
widower is also a person 65 years of age or older in which case the
$10.00 fee noted above will apply)
Motorcycles or motor bicycles                                        $10.00
Recreational vehicle (plate type) RV                                 25.00
Boat trailers                                                        15.00
Trucks, tractors, semitrailer units or buses as follows:             Â 
  Gross Weight In Pounds Including Class                             Fee
  Vehicle And Maximum Load
Â Â Â Â 8,000 or less              B                                 $ 25.00
Â Â Â Â 8,001 to 12,000            D                                 40.00
Â Â Â Â 12,001 to 16,000           F                                 55.00
Â Â Â Â 16,001 to 24,000           H                                 65.00
Â Â Â Â 24,001 to 28,000           J                                 70.00
Â Â Â Â 28,001 to 32,000           K                                 80.00
Â Â Â Â 32,001 to 36,000           L                                 85.00
Â Â Â Â 36,001 to 40,000           N                                 95.00
Â Â Â Â 40,001 to 45,000           P                                 105.00
Â Â Â Â 45,001 to 50,000           Q                                 115.00
Â Â Â Â 50,001 to 54,500           R                                 127.50
Â Â Â Â 54,501 to 59,500           S                                 135.00
Â Â Â Â 59,501 to 64,000           T                                 142.50
Â Â Â Â 64,001 to 73,280           V                                 150.00
Â Â Â Â 73,281 to 77,000           X                                 157.50
Â Â Â Â 77,001 to 80,000           Z                                 165.00
Â Â Â Â Replacement stickers       Â                                 5.00
Â 
Note:
Â Â Â  1. Â Â Â A "military veteran" is defined as a person who served in the active
military, naval, or air service, and who was discharged or released therefrom
under conditions other than dishonorable. Active military, naval, or air
service includes active duty which term means full-time duty in the Armed
Forces. Armed Forces includes the United States Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air
Force and Coast Guard, including the reserve components thereof.
(Ord. 2018-28, 11-19-2019)
7-2-4: PAYMENT AND USE OF FEES; TERM OF LICENSE:
Such license fee or tax shall be due and payable annually in advance from March
1 through May 1 of each year and the license shall be for a one year period;
provided, that each owner or operator coming into possession of such motor
vehicle or motorcycle between September 1 and the last day of February shall
pay one-half (1/2) of the annual fee established herein, and shall have thirty
(30) days from date of possession to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
All revenues derived from such license fees shall be utilized as provided by
statute. (Ord. 2018-28, 11-19-2018)
7-2-5: PENALTY:
Every motor vehicle that is registered, owned, leased, or operated by a
resident or business of Broadview shall make timely application for the vehicle
sticker license.
If application is not timely made, after May 1 the applicable license fee shall
be twice the amount contained in section
7-2-3 of this chapter; provided however, that for an owner or operator first
coming into possession of a motor vehicle, the doubling of the license fee
shall not occur until thirty (30) days after the date of possession, and for an
owner or operator entitled to a free vehicle sticker this penalty shall not
apply. (Ord. 2018-28, 11-19-2019)
7-2-6: VIOLATIONS SUBJECT TO PENALTIES:
The violations of this chapter are hereby further subject to the provisions of
section
7-4-6 of this title. (Ord. 2006-04, 2-22-2006)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
7-3-1: State Law Provisions Adopted
7-3-2: School Crossing Signals
7-3-3: Reckless, Careless Driving
7-3-4: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
7-3-5: Motorized Scooters
7-3-1: STATE LAW PROVISIONS ADOPTED:
The following enumerated provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes are
adopted and by reference made a part of this code with the same force and
effect as though set forth herein verbatim; and the term "this act" whenever
used in any such section shall mean this title, whenever necessary to
effectuate the meaning of this section. Any violation of this section may be
cited by referring to the state statute section as a subsection of this
section:
Â Â Â Section Or Chapter Number
Â Â Â Â Â Â Chapter 1Â Â Â Title and definitions
Â Â Â Â Â Â Chapter 11Â Â Â Rules of the road
Â Â Â Â Â Â Chapter 12Â Â Â Equipment of vehicles
(1987 Code)
7-3-2: SCHOOL CROSSING SIGNALS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Locations: School crossing signals shall be erected at the following
locations and if such locations are under the jurisdiction of the state
department of public works and buildings, erection of such signals shall be
subject to the approval of that department:
At the intersection of Cermak Road and 12th Avenue.
At the intersection of 17th Avenue and 14th Street.
At the intersection of 17th Avenue and Harvard Street.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Obedience To Signals: Whenever the red lens of a school crossing signal
is illuminated, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the nearest
crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked or if none, then
before entering the intersection, and pedestrians within or entering the
crosswalk at either edge of the roadway shall have the right of way over
vehicles so stopped. Drivers of vehicles having so yielded the right of way to
pedestrians entering or within the nearest crosswalk at an intersection may
proceed but shall also yield the right of way to pedestrians within any other
crosswalk at the intersection. If, in the event a school crossing signal is
erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection, these provisions
of this subsection shall also be applicable except as to provisions which by
their nature can have no application. (1987 Code)
7-3-3: RECKLESS, CARELESS DRIVING:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Reckless Driving: It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle in the
village in a reckless or wanton manner, or carelessly so as to endanger life or
property.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Driving In Careless Manner: No person shall drive any motor vehicle in
a careless manner or without having the vehicle under proper control or without
due regard for the safety and convenience of other vehicles.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Excessive Speed: Notwithstanding any speed limit which may be allowed,
no person shall drive any motor vehicle at a speed which is greater than
reasonable or prudent for the conditions of, and the traffic upon, the street
at the time.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Following Too Closely: The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow
another motor vehicle, trailer or semitrailer more closely than is reasonable
and prudent, having due regard to the speed of both vehicles and the traffic
upon, and conditions of, the highway at the time.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Drag Racing: No person shall engage in a race between two (2) or more
motor vehicles on the streets of the village. For the purposes of this
subsection, the term "race" shall include so called "drag racing", quick starts
at the change of traffic lights and such other meanings as are customarily
given to it. (1987 Code)
7-3-4: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Clinging To Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any person on any street
riding a bicycle, motorcycle, or any tow vehicle to cling to or to attach
himself or his vehicle to any moving motor vehicle or wagon.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Riding On Running Board: It shall be unlawful for any person to ride
upon the fenders, running board or outside step of any vehicle.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Toy Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any person upon skates, a
coaster, sled, skateboard or other toy vehicle, to go upon any roadway other
than a crosswalk. (1987 Code)
7-3-5: MOTORIZED SCOOTERS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Definitions: For the purpose of this section, a "motor driven scooter"
is defined as any electric or gas driven wheeled scooter, motor driven cycle or
other similar motor driven vehicle for which the state of Illinois does not
issue a title document, and does not issue license plates or registration
documents.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Operation Of Motor Driven Scooters Restricted: No person shall operate
a motor driven scooter upon any public street, sidewalk, parking lot, bike
path, park or on any other public property within the village of Broadview.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Exemptions: The following shall be exempt from the prohibitions
contained in this section:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Any police vehicle, fire vehicle, municipal vehicle, special
district vehicle, county vehicle or forest preserve district vehicle operated
by an employee in the course of his or her duties.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Motorized wheelchairs. For purposes of this section, a "motorized
wheelchair" means any motorized vehicle designed for and used by a person with
disabilities.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Electronic personal assistive mobility devices, as defined in
section 5/1-117.7 of the Illinois vehicle code 1 .
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Violations: Any person eighteen (18) years of age or older who violates
any of the provisions of this section shall be subject to a fine of not less
than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense. An offense committed by a minor under the direct
control or with the consent of a parent or guardian may subject the parent or
guardian to the penalties provided in this subsection. (Ord. 2004-23, 11-1-
2004)
CHAPTER 4.1
VEHICLE IMMOBILIZATION
(Rep. by Ord. 09-66, 12-21-2009)
CHAPTER 4.2
TOWING AND IMPOUNDMENT
SECTION:
7-4.2--1: Motor Vehicles Subject To Towing And Impoundment
7-4.2--2: Violations Or Offenses
7-4.2--3: Conflict Of Law
7-4.2--4: Approval Of Towing Company Fees
7-4.2--5: Theft Of Motor Vehicle
7-4.2--6: Towing/Seizure Of Motor Vehicle
7-4.2--7: Preliminary Hearing
7-4.2--8: Notice Of Hearing
7-4.2--9: Hearing
7-4.2-10: Unclaimed Motor Vehicles
7-4.2-11: Lienholders
7-4.2-12: Administrative Adjudication
7-4.2-1: MOTOR VEHICLES SUBJECT TO TOWING AND IMPOUNDMENT:
Any motor vehicle operated, used, or in the physical control of any person with
the express or implied permission of the owner of record (as registered with
the secretary of state of Illinois or any applicable state), on any public
highway within the village of Broadview during the commission of or in
furtherance of any offense or violation set forth herein, shall be subject to
seizure and impoundment by the village of Broadview, and the owner of record of
said motor vehicle shall be liable to the village for an impoundment fee in an
amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) plus the payment of the actual costs
charged to the village by the towing company for towing fees, and the payment
of a storage fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) for each day of storage or the
actual cost charged to the village if not stored by the village (whichever fee
is greater). (Ord. 09-39, 9-8-2009)
7-4.2-2: VIOLATIONS OR OFFENSES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The arrest of the operator of a motor vehicle for the following
violations or offenses shall subject a motor vehicle to seizure and
impoundment:
1.  720 ILCS 5/11-14             Prostitution.
Â   720 ILCS 5/11-15             Soliciting for a prostitute.
Â   720 ILCS 5/11-15.1           Soliciting for a juvenile prostitute.
Â   720 ILCS 5/11-18             Patronizing a prostitute.
Â   720 ILCS 5/11-18-1           Patronizing a juvenile prostitute.
2.  720 ILCS 5/12-4.2            Aggravated battery with a firearm.
3.  720 ILCS 5/24-1              Unlawful use of weapon.
Â   720 ILCS 5/24-1.2            Aggravated discharge of a firearm.
4.  720 ILCS 550/4(c) â€“ 550/4(gPossession of cannabis punishable as a class A
                                 misdemeanor or higher.
5.  720 ILCS 570/401 â€“ 570/413 Possession of a controlled substance.
                                 Driving while driver's license, permit, or
                                 privilege to operate a motor vehicle is
6.  625 ILCS 5/6-303             suspended or revoked, excluding emissions
                                 suspension when the emissions suspension is
                                 the sole reason for the suspension.
                                 Driving while under the influence of alcohol,
7.  625 ILCS 5/11-501            other drug or drugs, intoxicating compound or
                                 compounds or any combination thereof.
8.  625 ILCS 5/11-204            Fleeing or attempting to elude a peace
                                 officer.
Â   625 ILCS 5/11-204.1          Aggravated fleeing or attempt to elude a peace
                                 officer.
9.  625 ILCS 5/11-503            Reckless driving, aggravated reckless driving.
10. 625 ILCS 5/11-506            Street racing, aggravated street racing.
11. Operator of a motor vehicle who is also the owner of record of the motor
    vehicle has an outstanding arrest warrant.
12. The use of a motor vehicle as a part of the commission of a felony.
13. Operator of the motor vehicle never having been issued a driver's license.
Â 
(Ord. 09-39, 9-8-2009)
7-4.2-3: CONFLICT OF LAW:
The provisions of this chapter shall be in addition to and shall not replace or
otherwise abrogate any existing state or federal law or village ordinance that
relates to the seizure and/or impoundment of motor vehicles, and any penalty
provided herein shall be in addition to any and all penalties that may be
assessed or imposed by a court for violation of any criminal offense or local
ordinance violation offense. (Ord. 09-39, 9-8-2009)
7-4.2-4: APPROVAL OF TOWING COMPANY FEES:
Any and all fees incurred for towing and/or storage of a motor vehicle seized
under this chapter shall be those approved by the chief of police for all
towing companies authorized to operate in the village. (Ord. 09-39, 9-8-2009)
7-4.2-5: THEFT OF MOTOR VEHICLE:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply if at the time of the offense
the motor vehicle was stolen and the theft was reported to the appropriate
police authority within twenty four (24) hours after the theft was discovered.
(Ord. 09-39, 9-8-2009)
7-4.2-6: TOWING/SEIZURE OF MOTOR VEHICLE:
Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a motor vehicle
subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this chapter and the police
officer has arrested the operator or person in physical control of the motor
vehicle for any of the offenses set forth above herein, the police officer
shall provide for the towing of the motor vehicle to a facility authorized by
the village. The police officer shall make a reasonable attempt to notify the
owner or any person identifying themselves as the owner of the motor vehicle,
or any person who is found to be in physical control of the motor vehicle at
the time of the alleged offense, of the fact of the seizure and of the motor
vehicle owner's right to request a preliminary motor vehicle impoundment
hearing to be conducted in accordance with the procedure set forth herein. The
motor vehicle shall be impounded pending the completion of the hearings
provided for herein, unless the owner of the motor vehicle or someone on their
behalf posts with the village a cash bond in the amount of five hundred dollars
($500.00) and pays all applicable towing and storage fees and any existing
fines owed to the village on the motor vehicle or owed by the owner of record.
(Ord. 09-39, 9-8-2009)
7-4.2-7: PRELIMINARY HEARING:
Where the owner of a motor vehicle seized under the provisions of this chapter,
or the designated agent of the owner of the motor vehicle, makes a request to
the chief of police and/or his authorized officer for a preliminary hearing
within twenty four (24) hours after the seizure of the motor vehicle, the chief
of police and/or his authorized officer must conduct a preliminary hearing
within three (3) business days after the request for preliminary hearing is
received by the village; not including Saturdays, Sundays, or legal holidays.
In order for a designated agent to request a preliminary hearing on behalf of
the owner of the motor vehicle, the designated agent must present a written
authorization authorizing the designated agent to act and which is signed by
the owner of the motor vehicle and which is notarized by a notary public. For
purposes of this chapter, the following shall apply:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â All interested persons will be given a reasonable opportunity to be
heard at the preliminary hearing.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The formal rules of evidence will not apply at the hearing, and hearsay
testimony will be allowed, and shall be admissible.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â If, after the conclusion of the hearing, the chief of police and/or his
authorized officer determines that there is probable cause to believe that the
motor vehicle was used as described in section 7-4.2-2 of this chapter, the
chief of police and/or his authorized officer shall order the continued
impoundment of the motor vehicle, unless the owner of the motor vehicle posts a
cash bond with the village in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00),
plus any towing and storage cost plus existing fines owed to the village on the
motor vehicle or owed by the owner of record.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â If the chief of police and/or his authorized officer determine that
there is not probable cause to believe that the motor vehicle was used as
described in section 7-4.2-2 of this chapter, the motor vehicle will be
returned to the owner of record of the motor vehicle after the owner of record
pays the towing and storage fees. (Ord. 09-39, 9-8-2009)
7-4.2-8: NOTICE OF HEARING:
Within ten (10) days of the motor vehicle's impoundment, the village shall
notify the owner of record of the motor vehicle by United States mail and/or
certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, of his/her right to
a full hearing before the hearing officer to contest the impoundment; and that,
in the event that the owner of record would like a hearing, he/she must file a
request for such hearing in writing with the village of Broadview police
department. If a written request is not received within thirty (30) days of the
mailing of the notice by the village, then the owner is defaulted ("default
date"). If the motor vehicle owner fails to pay the impoundment fee, towing
charges and storage fees on or before the thirty first day after the expiration
of the default date, then the motor vehicle can be disposed of in the manner
provided by law for the disposition of unclaimed motor vehicles under the
Illinois vehicle code. (Ord. 09-39, 9-8-2009)
7-4.2-9: HEARING:
For purposes of this section, the following shall apply to the owner's hearing:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Unless continued by order of the hearing officer, the hearing shall be
held within thirty (30) days but not more than forty (40) days after a request
for hearing is received by the village of Broadview police department.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â All interested persons will be given a reasonable opportunity to be
heard at the hearing.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â If, after the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer determines
by a preponderance of the evidence that the motor vehicle was used as described
in section 7-4.2-2 of this chapter the hearing officer shall order the
continued impoundment of the motor vehicle until the owner of the motor vehicle
pays to the village a penalty in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00),
plus the towing and storage costs, plus existing fines owed to the village on
the motor vehicle or owed by the owner of record. This amount shall be a debt
due to the village.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â If the owner of record fails to appear at the hearing, the hearing
officer shall enter an order of default in favor of the village, which order
shall require the payment to the village of an administrative penalty of five
hundred dollars ($500.00) plus the towing and storage costs.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â If the hearing officer determines that the motor vehicle was not used
as described in section 7-4.2-2 of this chapter, the motor vehicle will be
returned to the owner of record of the motor vehicle without any penalty; and,
if a cash bond had previously been posted, the cash bond shall be returned.
(Ord. 09-39, 9-8-2009)
7-4.2-10: UNCLAIMED MOTOR VEHICLES:
If the administrative penalty and applicable towing and storage fees are not
paid within thirty five (35) days after the expiration of time in which
administrative review of the hearing officer's final determination may be
sought, or within thirty (30) days after an action seeking administrative
review has been resolved in favor of the village, whichever is applicable, the
motor vehicle shall be deemed unclaimed and shall be disposed of in the manner
provided by law for the disposition of unclaimed motor vehicles under the
Illinois vehicle code. (Ord. 09-39, 9-8-2009)
7-4.2-11: LIENHOLDERS:
Whenever a person or other entity with a lien of record against an impounded
motor vehicle has proof of commenced repossession proceedings, and also
provides the village with a hold harmless letter, possession of the motor
vehicle shall be given to that lienholder upon payment of the five hundred
dollar ($500.00) impoundment fee and all towing and storage costs. (Ord. 09-39,
9-8-2009)
7-4.2-12: ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION:
Other than for the preliminary hearing, section 7-4.2-7 of this chapter, the
code hearing department identified in title 1, chapter 13 of this code shall be
charged with the adjudication of all claims under this chapter. (Ord. 09-39, 9-
8-2009)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.
CHAPTER 4
PARKING
SECTION:
7-4-1: No Parking Places
7-4-2: General Parking Restrictions
7-4-2-1: Snow Removal
7-4-2-2: Overnight Parking Permits
7-4-2-3: Metered Parking
7-4-3: Time Limit Parking
7-4-4: Loading Zones
7-4-5: Posting Signs
7-4-6: Violations; Notice; Adjudication; Determinations
7-4-7: Administrative Adjudication
7-4-8: Administrative Hearings
7-4-9: Failure To Appear At Hearing
7-4-10: Determination Of Liability
7-4-11: Petition To Set Aside
7-4-12: Nonresident Procedures
7-4-13: Fines And Penalties
7-4-14: Driver's License Suspension
7-4-15: Immobilization, Impoundment And Towing
7-4-16: Posttowing Notice
7-4-17: Contest Validity Of Immobilization Or Towing And Impoundment
7-4-1: NO PARKING PLACES 1 :
At any time it shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to stand in any of the
following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or
in compliance with the directions of a policeman or traffic control device:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â In any intersection.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â In a crosswalk.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Upon any bridge or viaduct, or in any subway or tunnel or the approach
thereto.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet (30')
of a point of the curb immediately opposite the end of a safety zone.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Within thirty feet (30') of a traffic signal, beacon or sign on the
approaching side.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Within twenty feet (20') of any intersection or crosswalk.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â At any place where the standing of a vehicle will reduce the usable
width of the roadway for moving traffic to less than eighteen feet (18').
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad grade
crossing.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Within twenty feet (20') of a driveway entrance to any Fire Department
station; and on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any such
station, within seventy five feet (75') of such entrance when properly
signposted.
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â On any sidewalk or parkway.
Â Â Â M.Â Â Â At any place where official signs prohibit parking. (Ord. 2006-04, 2-
22-2006)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See also section 7-5-6 of this title.
7-4-2: GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Parking At Curbs, Angle Parking: No vehicle shall be parked with the
left side of such vehicle next to the curb, except on one-way streets, and it
shall be unlawful to stand or park any vehicle in a street other than parallel
with the curb and with the two (2) right wheels of the vehicle within twelve
inches (12") of the regularly established curb line, except that upon those
streets that have been marked for angle parking, vehicles shall be parked at
the angle to the curb indicated by such marks.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Peddling: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street from
which vehicle merchandise is sold, however, said vehicles may stand or park for
such length of time as it is necessary to complete such sale or sales,
thereafter such vehicles must move.
Vehicles used for sale of merchandise are hereby prohibited on the Village
streets from the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M.
and said vehicles are hereby prohibited from ringing bells or making other
noise to attract customers.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Sale Of Vehicles: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on the
street for the purpose of displaying it for sale.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Trailers And Truck Tractors:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No person shall park any vehicle on any street in the Village to
which is attached a trailer for hauling except as may be allowed for loading
and unloading, which loading and unloading shall be done as expeditiously as
possible. Said trailer must remain attached to the truck or otherwise properly
anchored so as to not damage the street, sidewalk or other Village-owned
property or right-of-way. Any trailer, whether being actively loaded or
unloaded, shall not be parked on any street in the Village for more than four
(4) hours unless said owner or operator of the trailer gets prior written
permission from the Villageâ€™s police department. Any trailer parked in
violation of this section may be impounded as provided in this title.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â No person shall leave any trailer under his control unattended, and
no trailers shall be parked on municipal property, including but not limited to
Village-owned rights-of-way at any time without prior written permission of the
Village and without taking all required precautions so as to not damage the
Village owned property, including but not limited to Village-owned rights-of-
way. Any unattended trailer may be impounded as provided in this title.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â No truck tractor may be parked on any Village street or alley at any
time, unless an overnight parking permit has been purchased for the truck
tractor and is properly displayed as required by section
7-4-2-2 of this section
7-4-2. For purposes of this section, "truck tractor" is defined as every motor
vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing other vehicles and not so
constructed as to carry a load other than a part of the weight of the vehicle
and load so drawn. Trailers are not allowed to be parked on Village streets
without written approval by the Village, subject to conditions set forth by the
Village.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Alleys: It shall be unlawful to let any motor vehicle stand or park in
any alley in the Village at any time.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Cab And Bus Stands: No vehicle other than a licensed taxicab shall be
parked in any area designated by ordinance as a cab stand; and no vehicle other
than a bus shall be parked in a place so designated as a bus loading zone.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Double Parking Trucks: No person shall stop, stand or park any truck,
tractor, semitrailer, trailer or bus on the roadway side of any vehicle stopped
or parked at the edge or curb of a street.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Overnight Parking:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Overnight Parking Prohibited; Exceptions: No person shall park any
vehicle on any street for a period of time longer than thirty (30) minutes
between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. of
any day, except physicians on emergency calls, unless that person has purchased
and is properly displaying an overnight parking permit as provided for in
section
7-4-2-2 of this section
7-4-2. The Chief of Police or any other person authorized by the Chief of
Police may grant special overnight parking permission to those persons
requesting it, and may also designate where those persons receiving the
permission shall park their vehicle.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Overnight Parking In Municipal Parking Lots: No person shall park
any vehicle in any Municipal parking lot for a period of time longer than
thirty (30) minutes between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and five
o'clock (5:00) A.M. of any day unless that person has purchased a parking
permit as provided for in section
7-4-2-2 of this section
7-4-2. The Chief of Police or any person authorized by said Chief may grant
special overnight parking permission to those persons requesting it, and may
also require those persons receiving this parking permission to register their
vehicles on forms provided by the Police Department.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Parking In Municipal Parking Lots After Snowfall: No person shall park
any vehicle or allow any vehicle to remain parked in any Municipal parking lot
after a snowfall of two inches (2") or more. Any police officer is hereby
authorized to remove or cause to be removed by a towing service any vehicle
parked in any Municipal parking lot in violation of this subsection. The owner
or operator of such removed vehicle will be responsible for all towing and
storage costs.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â In Residential Front Yards: No person shall let stand or park any
vehicle on that portion of the front yard which lies between the building used
for residential purposes or for apartment purposes, less than three (3) units,
and the front lot line, except on side driveways which are not wider than
twelve feet (12').
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Parking Restricted In Specified Places For The Handicapped: It shall be
unlawful to park any vehicle in an area restricted by sign to parking for
handicapped persons only unless the vehicle is equipped with a duly authorized
handicapped license plate or identification card or sticker.
The Board of Trustees shall designate certain parking areas within Municipal
parking lots as restricted to handicapped persons only from time to time upon
recommendation of the Safety Committee.
(Ord. 2018-20, 8-20-2018; amd. Ord. CO-2024-9, 5-20-2024)
7-4-2-1: SNOW REMOVAL:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â It is hereby declared and proclaimed that it is necessary to the public
health, safety and welfare that the streets of the Village be cleared of snow,
and if the clearing of snow is impeded and delayed by vehicles parked on the
streets, such impediment is detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of
the public. Accordingly, the following parking regulations regarding snow
removal shall be in effect:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Whenever there has been a snow event in excess of two inches (2"),
in order not to delay the cleaning of streets, all vehicles parked upon the
streets of the Village shall be removed by the owners in a timely manner.
Vehicles parked on a Village street after a snow event in excess of two inches
(2") may be issued a parking citation pursuant to this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â If such vehicles are not removed from the street after a snow event
in excess of two inches (2"), and after ticketing, then said vehicles shall be
towed pursuant to subsection 6-8-4C of this Code.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The Village shall post signs as necessary to provide notification of
the provisions of this section. (Ord. 2018-20, 8-20-2018)
7-4-2-2: OVERNIGHT PARKING PERMITS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Overnight Parking Permitted: Overnight parking shall be permitted in
certain designated areas as provided for herein and under the conditions stated
herein provided that a permit for such parking is obtained from the Village, as
set forth in this section.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Zoned Permit Parking: Designated permit parking areas shall be divided
into parking zones ("zone(s)") and any person possessing a permit for a
specific zone may park in any designated permit parking areas with the same
zone number. Parking in the wrong zone is a violation of this section. The
parking zones shall include the following locations:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Zone 1 - vehicles under eight thousand (8,000) pounds only:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â 25th Avenue between Harvard Street and Fillmore Street (2000
block of 25th Avenue), west side of street; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â 24th Avenue north of Roosevelt Road to the alley, east and west
sides of street; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â 24th Avenue south of Roosevelt Road to the alley, east and west
sides of street; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â 23rd Avenue north of Roosevelt Road to the alley, east and west
sides of street; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â 23rd Avenue south of Roosevelt Road to the alley, east and west
sides of street; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â 21st Avenue north of Roosevelt Road to the alley, east and west
sides of street; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â 21st Avenue south of Roosevelt Road to the alley, east and west
sides of street.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Zone 2 - vehicles under eight thousand (8,000) pounds only:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â 1600 block of Lexington Street between 17th Avenue and the alley
on the east, north side of street.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Zone 3 - vehicles under eight thousand (8,000) pounds only:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â 13th Avenue north of Roosevelt Road to the alley, west side of
street; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â 13th Avenue south of Roosevelt Road to the alley, east and west
sides of street.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Zone 4 - vehicles under eight thousand (8,000) pounds only:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â 18th Street between 10th Avenue and 12th Avenue, south side of
street.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Zone 5 - vehicles under eight thousand (8,000) pounds only:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â 9th Avenue between 19th Street and Cermak Road (2800 and 2900
block of 9th Avenue), east side of street.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Zone 6 - vehicles under eight thousand (8,000) pounds only:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â 16th Avenue and Roosevelt Road at the Village-owned lot located
on the southeast corner; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â 18th Avenue and Roosevelt Road at the Village-owned lot located
on the southwest corner.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Zone 7 - vehicles under eight thousand (8,000) pounds permitted,
however truck and semi-tractor parking is allowed but no trailers allowed:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â 11th Avenue south of Roosevelt Road to the alley, east and west
sides of street; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Persons using a Zone 7 permit must call the Broadview Police
Department prior to parking in said Zone 7 lot to ensure availability.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Placard: All persons purchasing a permit shall be given a placard
("placard") which shall indicate the parking zone. Purchasers of permits will
also be given stickers or other devices to affix to the permit to indicate the
month for which the placard applies. Said stickers or other manner of
indicating the month for which a permit was purchased must be displayed on the
placard. Placards must also be hung from the rear-view mirror of the vehicle.
Placards may be used on multiple vehicles and shall be registered to the person
purchasing the placard. Lost or stolen placards must be reported to the
Broadview Police Department within twenty four (24) hours of discovering that
the placard is missing. Temporary placards may be given to persons while the
permanent placard is being produced.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Placard Holder Information: Persons who have purchased a placard must
ensure that their name, address, and phone number is on file with the Village.
Any change to the person's name, address, and phone number must be reported
within five (5) business days to the Broadview Police Department.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Hours: Vehicles displaying a valid placard may park overnight in the
zones indicated herein between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Fees: The fee for a parking permit in Zones 1 through 7 shall be thirty
dollars ($30.00) per month, unless the purchaser buys a 6-month supply of
permit stickers to affix to the placard in which case the costs of the permits
will be discounted to twenty eight dollars ($28.00) per month.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Compliance With Laws And Village Ordinances: All vehicles displaying a
placard must be parked, operated, and kept in compliance with this Code, State
law, and Federal law, including but not limited to and by way of example snow
removal parking restrictions, street cleaning parking restrictions, license and
registration requirements, and abandonment prohibitions.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Violations: Violations of this section shall include but not be limited
to parking in a zone without a permit, parking in the wrong zone, failing to
properly display a placard, displaying a false or fraudulent placard, failing
to display a placard with the proper monthly sticker (or other item to identify
the month) affixed. Violations of this section shall be subject to a minimum
fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) and a maximum fine of seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00). Each day shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 2018-20, 8-20-2018)
7-4-2-3: METERED PARKING:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Definitions:
Â 
                    A mechanical device or central electronic box designed to
                    manage and collect a fee that is located upon a public
                    street or sidewalk in a place designated by the Village
PARKING METER:      Board as a parking meter zone, which device or central
                    collection box shall record a certain number of minutes by
                    the use of a clock mechanism determining the period of time
                    for which parking privileges may be extended to the person
                    depositing a parking fee therein.
                    An area designated by the Village Board where a vehicle may
PARKING METER ZONE: be temporarily parked and allowed to remain for the period
                    of time indicated on the parking meter.
Â 
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Parking Meter Zones: Parking meter zones shall be such as may from time
to time be established by chapter.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Parking Meter Rules Rates, And Permit Parking:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Parking Meter Rules: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle or to
permit a vehicle to remain parked in any parking meter zone for a period longer
than designated on such meter, between the hours and days designated thereon,
or to park a vehicle in any zone without paying the fee hereinafter designated,
or without displaying the proper parking permit, or to permit a vehicle to
remain parked longer in any such zone than for the period for which the fee was
paid or for which the permit authorized.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Parking Meter Rates: Municipal Lots: Persons parking in Village-
owned and/or operated municipal parking lots and or in municipally-owned
parking spaces, or other metered spots as designated by the Village for use by
the general public as metered parking during the hours designated shall pay a
fee of one dollar ($1.00) per hour, or portion thereof, for parking.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, persons parking
in the following village owned and/or operated municipal parking lots and any
and all municipally-owned parking spaces shall pay a parking meter fee and
shall be authorized to park in accordance with the following parking rate fee
schedule and subject to the following time restrictions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â One dollar ($1.00) per hour with a maximum duration of four (4) hours
from eight (8:00) A.M. to two (2:00) A.M., seven (7) days a week.
Â Â Â Â Â Â No paid parking is allowed from two (2:00) A.M. to five (5:00) A.M.
Overnight parking permits must be purchased, or requests for courtesy parking
must be made via Frontline or through such other communication medium
established by the Village. Residents are allowed overnight parking permits for
up to four (4) nights per month per address unless otherwise granted permission
by the Village's Police Department.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Placing Coins In Meters; Tampering:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Any person desiring to park any vehicle within such desired meter
space shall deposit the proper fee for the time desired.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â All parking meters are posted as to cost and as to hours of
operation and enforcement.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful to deposit any slug, device or metallic or
other substitute devices for a coin in any parking meter or otherwise
fraudulently manipulate an electronic pay box.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the Village
Board to deface, tamper with, open or willfully break, destroy or impair the
usefulness of any parking meter installed under the provisions of this section.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Fines: Violations:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Any vehicle parked in a metered parking space or otherwise parked in
violation of this section shall be fined fifty dollars ($50.00). Each day shall
constitute a separate and distinct violation.
(Ord. CO-2024-10, 5-20-2024)
7-4-3: TIME LIMIT PARKING 1 :
Except on Sundays and holidays, it shall be unlawful to park any vehicle, in
any area designated as a limited parking area and so marked, for a longer
consecutive period of time than that designated, between the hours of eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See also section 7-5-6-2 of this title.
7-4-4: LOADING ZONES:
It shall be unlawful for the driver of a vehicle to stand a passenger vehicle
or any freight carrying vehicle for a period of time longer than is necessary
for the loading or unloading of passengers or for the loading, unloading or
delivery of materials, not to exceed three (3) minutes, in any place designated
by the board of trustees as a loading zone and marked as such, or in any of the
following designated places:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except momentarily to
pick up or discharge passengers:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â In front of a public or private driveway.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing signal,
stop sign, yield sign or traffic control signal located at the side of a
roadway.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of such entrance (when properly signposted).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â In any alley.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or
passengers:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â In any alley. (1987 Code)
7-4-5: POSTING SIGNS:
The chief of police or any other person authorized by the president or board of
trustees shall cause signs to be posted in all areas where parking is limited
or prohibited, indicating such limitations or prohibitions. (1987 Code)
7-4-6: VIOLATIONS; NOTICE; ADJUDICATION; DETERMINATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Purpose: The stated purpose of this section is to provide a fair and
efficient enforcement of village of Broadview vehicular standing, parking, and
condition of vehicle regulation violation(s), through an administrative
adjudication of violation(s) of village ordinances regulating the standing,
parking, and condition of vehicles within the geographic boundaries of the
village and a schedule of uniform fines and penalties and authority and
procedures for collection of unpaid fines and penalties.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Compliance Violation: For purposes of this section "compliance
violation" means a violation of a village regulation governing the condition or
use of equipment on a vehicle or governing the display of a village vehicle
license or village sticker.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Administrative Composition: The system of administrative
adjudication of vehicular standing, parking, and compliance, regulation
violation(s) shall provide for a traffic compliance administrator, as selected
by the village president, and hearing officer with the power, authority and
limitations as are hereinafter set forth.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Traffic Compliance Administrator: The traffic compliance administrator,
and/or their designee, shall be selected by the village president and
empowered, authorized and directed to:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Operate and manage the system of administrative adjudication of
vehicular standing, parking, and compliance regulation violation(s).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Adopt, distribute and process standing, parking, and compliance
violation notices and other notices as may be required under this section or as
may be reasonably required to carry out the purpose of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Collect monies paid as fines and/or penalties assessed after a final
determination of vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulation
violation(s) liability.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Certify copies of final determination(s) of standing, parking, and
compliance regulation violation(s) liability and factual report(s) verifying
that the final determination of standing, parking, and compliance regulation
violation(s) liability was issued in accordance with this section and 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Certify reports to the secretary of state concerning initiation of
suspension of driving privileges in accordance with the provisions of this
section, hereinafter set forth, and those of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
6-306.5, hereinafter adopted.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Review final determination(s) of vehicular standing, parking, and
compliance regulation violation(s) liability, validity of notices of impending
impoundment or validity of notice of impending driver's license suspension, in
an administrative review capacity in accordance with the provisions of this
section, hereinafter set forth.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Promulgate rules and regulations reasonably required to operate and
maintain the administrative adjudication system hereby created.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Collect unpaid fines and penalties by filing complaints in the
circuit court or selecting or appointing an individual or agency to act on
behalf of the village in filing complaints seeking judgments for unpaid fines
or penalties and pursuit of all postjudgment remedies available by current law.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Hearing Officer: The hearing officer shall be empowered and is hereby
authorized and directed to:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Preside over the administrative hearings, established herein, as the
adjudicator.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Administer oaths.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Issue subpoenas to secure the attendance of witnesses and production
of relevant papers or documentation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Assess fines, penalties or community service for the violation of
vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulation violation(s) as are
established herein.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Make final determination of:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Vehicular standing, parking and compliance regulation violation
(s) liability.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Validity of notice of impending impoundment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Validity of notice of impending driver's license suspension in
accordance with the provisions of this section, hereinafter set forth.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Provide for the accurate recording of the administrative
adjudication hearing(s). (Ord. 09-66, 12-21-2009)
7-4-7: ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Procedure: The system of administrative adjudication of vehicular
standing, parking, and compliance regulation violation(s) shall be in
accordance with the following procedures and final determination(s) of
vehicular standing, parking, and compliance regulation violation(s) liability,
validity of notice of impending impoundment, validity of notice of impending
driver's license suspension. The immobilization and impoundment of a vehicle
and collections shall be made only in accordance with the provisions set forth
herein.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Violation Notice: Vehicular standing, parking, and compliance
regulation violation(s) notice(s) ("violation notice(s)") shall be issued by
the person(s) authorized herein and shall contain information and shall be
served, certified by the authorized person and have evidentiary admissibility
as is hereinafter set forth.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Authorization: All full time, part time, auxiliary police and community
service officers, as well as other specifically appointed individuals, shall
have the authority to issue violation(s) notices.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Detection Of Violations: Any individual authorized hereby to issue
violation notices and who detects a violation of any section of any applicable
village ordinance, shall issue a notice of violation thereof and shall make
service thereof as is hereinafter set forth.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Form Of Violation Notice: The vehicular standing, parking, and
compliance regulation "violation notice" shall contain, but shall not be
limited to, the following information:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The date, time and place of the violation (date of issuance).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The particular vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulation
violated.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Vehicle make and state registration number.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The fine and any penalty which may be assessed for late payment for
having failed to appear at scheduled hearings.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The signature and identification number of the person issuing the
notice.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â A section entitled "administrative hearing" which shall clearly set
forth that the registered owner or lessee shall appear at the administrative
hearing to contest the validity of the violation notice on the date and at the
time and place as specified in the violation notice if the fine on the
violation notice is not paid at least five (5) days prior to the date of the
scheduled administrative hearing., or if paid online, two (2) days prior to the
scheduled administrative hearing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â The date, time and place of an administrative hearing at which the
violation may be contested on its merits.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â A section clearly indicating that payment of the indicated fine up
to five (5) days prior to the date of the scheduled initial administrative
hearing, or if paid online, two (2) days prior to the scheduled administrative
hearing, shall operate as a final disposition of the violation and no late fee
shall be imposed and an appearance at the administrative hearing is not
required. Fines paid in-person on the date of the hearing shall not be subject
to any fees or penalties.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â That payment of the indicated fine and any late payment penalty
instituted after the initial administrative hearing shall operate as a final
disposition of the violation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â A section setting forth procedures for nonresidents to contest
violations of this chapter.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Service Of Violation Notice: Service of the violation(s) notice(s)
shall be made by the person issuing such notice by:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Affixing the original or a facsimile of the notice to an unlawfully
standing or parked vehicle, or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Handing the notice to the operator of the vehicle, if he or she is
present.; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Mailing the notice to the address of the registered owner or lessee
of the cited vehicle as recorded with the Secretary of State or the lessor of
the motor vehicle within thirty (30) days after the Secretary of State or the
lessor of the motor vehicle notifies the village of the identity of the owner
or lessee of the vehicle, but not later than ninety (90) days after the date of
the violation, except that in the case of a lessee of a motor vehicle, service
of a parking, standing, or compliance violation notice may occur no later than
two hundred and ten (210) days after the violation.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Certification Of Violation Notice: The correctness of facts contained
in the vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulation violation(s)
notice(s) shall be certified by the person issuing said notice by:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Signature: Signing his/her name to the notice(s) at the time of
service, or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Computer Device: In the case of a notice produced by a computer
device, by signing a single certificate, to be kept by the traffic compliance
administrator, attesting to the correctness of all notices produced by the
device while under his/her control.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Retention: The original or a facsimile of the violation(s) notice(s)
shall be retained by the village and kept as a record in the ordinary course of
business and in compliance with the Illinois Local Records Act, 50 ILCS 205/1,
et seq.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Prima Facie Evidence: Any violation(s) notice(s) issued, signed and
served in accordance herewith, or a copy of the notice, or a copy of the
computer generated record shall be prima facie true and correct and shall be
prima facie evidence of the correctness of the facts shown on the notice.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Admissibility: The violation(s) notice(s), a copy(ies) or a computer
generated record, shall be admissible in any subsequent administrative or legal
proceeding. (Ord. 09-66, 12-21-2009; amd. Ord. CO-2021-12, 8-16-2021)
7-4-8: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Process: An administrative hearing to adjudicate the alleged standing,
parking, or compliance regulation violation(s) on its merits as allowed by this
chapter and the code hearing department procedures in title 1, chapter 13 of
this code:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Shall be required of the registered owner or operator of the "cited
vehicle", pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3 or the lessee
of the "cited vehicle", pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1306,
incorporated herein by reference.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Shall be at the date, time and place as is set forth in the
violation notice issued and served, or such additional notices issued in
accordance with this chapter. Violators shall be required to appear at an
administrative hearing and failure to appear at the scheduled hearing date will
result in a "final determination of liability" as hereinafter set forth.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Shall be recorded.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Shall culminate in a determination of liability or nonliability made
by the hearing officer, who shall consider testimony and other evidence without
the application of the formal or technical rules of evidence. The hearing
officer shall, upon a determination of liability, assess fines and penalties in
accordance with this chapter. The hearing officer shall be empowered to
administer oaths and to secure by subpoena both the attendance and testimony of
witnesses and the production of relevant books and papers.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Persons appearing to contest the alleged standing, parking, or
compliance violation on its merits may be represented by counsel at their own
expense.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Any party may request a continuance for good cause shown, however,
any such request for a continuance may be granted or denied at the sole
discretion of the adjudicator.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Final Determination: The final determination of any matter which may be
decided by the hearing officer may be reviewed as is hereinafter set forth
through a petition to set aside or pursuant to the Illinois Administrative
Review Law, 735 ILCS 5/3-101, et seq. (Ord. 09-66, 12-21-2009; amd. Ord. CO-
2021-12, 8-16-2021)
7-4-9: FAILURE TO APPEAR AT HEARING:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Additional Notice: Upon failure of the registered owner or lessee of
the "cited vehicle" to appear at the administrative hearing indicated in the
vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulation violation(s) notice(s)
the traffic compliance administrator shall send or cause to be sent an
additional notice which:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Shall be sent to the registered owner or lessee of the "cited
vehicle" at the address as is recorded with the secretary of state.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Shall be sent to the lessee of the "cited vehicle" at the address
last known to the lessor of the "cited vehicle" at the time of the lease.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Shall be sent by first class mail, postage prepaid.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Service Of Notice: Service of the additional notice sent in accordance
herewith shall be complete as of the date of deposit in the United States mail.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Form Of Additional Notice: Upon the failure of the registered owner or
lessee of the "cited vehicle" to appear at the hearing set forth in the
vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulation violation(s), additional
notice shall be mailed. The additional notice sent in accordance herewith shall
be in the following sequence and contain, but not be limited to, the following
information:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Date and location of violation cited in the vehicular standing,
parking, or compliance regulation violation(s) notice(s).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Particular standing, parking, or compliance regulation violated.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Vehicle make and state registration number.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Fine and any penalty that may be assessed for late payment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Notice to the registered owner or lessee of their current payment
status, other than paid in full.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Date, time and place of the administrative hearing at which the
alleged violation may be contested on its merits.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Statement that failure to either pay the fine and any applicable
penalty or failure to appear at the hearing on its merits on the date and at
the time and place specified will result in a final determination of vehicle
standing, parking, or compliance regulation violation(s) liability for the
"cited" violation in the amount of the fine and penalty indicated.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Statement that upon the occurrence of a final determination of
vehicular standing, parking, or compliance violation(s) liability for the
failure, and the exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust, available
administrative or judicial procedures for review, any unpaid fine or penalty
will constitute a debt due and owing the village. (Ord. 09-66, 12-21-2009)
7-4-10: DETERMINATION OF LIABILITY:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Final Notice Of Determination: A notice of final determination of
vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulation violation(s) liability
shall be served upon the violator directly at the time of the hearing or mailed
via first class mail following an appearance by the violator and a
determination of liability. A notice of final determination of vehicular
standing, parking, or compliance regulation violation(s) liability shall be
sent via first class mail in the event that the violator fails to appear at the
initial or second administrative hearing date and upon the conclusion of any
administrative and/or judicial review, as is hereinafter set forth. The notice
shall contain, but not be limited to, the following information and warnings:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A statement that the unpaid fine and any penalty assessed is a debt
due and owing the village.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A warning that failure to pay the fine and any penalty due and owing
the village within the time specified may result in the village filing a
complaint in the circuit court to have the unpaid fine or penalty rendered a
judgment in accordance with 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3(f),
incorporated herein by reference.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A warning that the vehicle owned by the person and located within
the village may be impounded for failure to pay fines or penalties for three
(3) or more vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulation violations.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â A warning that the person's driver's license may be suspended for
failure to pay fines or penalties for ten (10) or more vehicular standing or
parking violations under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-306.5, incorporated
herein by reference.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The notice shall also state that the person may obtain a photostatic
copy of an original ticket imposing a fine or penalty by sending a self-
addressed, stamped envelope to the municipality along with a request for a
photostatic copy.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Final Determination Of Liability: A final determination of vehicular
standing, parking, or compliance regulation violation(s) liability shall:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Occur thirty five (35) days following the failure to pay the total
assessed fine or penalty after the hearing officer's final determination of
vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulation violation(s) liability
and the exhaustion of or the failure to exhaust any administrative review
procedures hereinafter set forth, or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Where a person fails to appear at an administrative hearing provided
to contest the alleged violation(s) on the date and at the time and place
specified in a prior served or mailed notice, the hearing officer's
determination of vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulation
violation(s) liability shall become final;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Upon denial of a timely petition to set aside that determination, or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Upon the expiration of the period for filing a petition to set aside
without a filing having been made. (Ord. 09-66, 12-21-2009)
7-4-11: PETITION TO SET ASIDE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Process For Setting Aside A Determination: A petition to set aside a
determination of vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulation
violation(s) liability may be filed by a person owing an unpaid fine or penalty
in the manner and subject to the restrictions and grounds hereinafter set
forth:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A written petition to vacate a determination of liability must be
filed in the village police department within, but not later than, twenty one
(21) days from the date the determination of liability is made.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The hearing officer or traffic compliance administrator shall act
upon the petition(s) timely filed and render a decision thereon within thirty
(30) days of the date filed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The grounds for setting aside a determination of liability shall be
limited to the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The person against whom the determination of liability is made
was not the owner or lessee of the "cited vehicle" on the date the vehicular
standing, parking, or compliance regulation violation(s) notice(s) was issued.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The person having paid the fine or penalty prior to the
determination of liability for the violation(s) in question.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Excusable failure to appear at or request a new date for a
hearing.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Process After Setting Aside A Determination: Should the determination
of liability be set aside, the traffic compliance administrator shall:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Notify the registered owner, or lessee, as the case may be, that the
determination of liability has been set aside.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Notify the registered owner, or lessee, as the case may be, of a
date, time and place for a hearing on the merits of the violation for which
determination of liability has been set aside.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Notice of setting aside of the determination of liability and the
notice of the hearing date shall be by first class mail, postage prepaid to the
address set forth on the petition to set aside the determination of liability.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Service of the notice shall be complete on the date the notice(s) is
deposited in the United States mail. (Ord. 09-66, 12-21-2009)
7-4-12: NONRESIDENT PROCEDURES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Procedures: Nonresidents of the Village who have been served vehicular
standing, parking, or compliance regulation violation(s) notice(s), in
accordance with this chapter, shall appear at the initially scheduled
administrative hearing to contest the alleged violation on its merits, as would
a resident, or shall contest the validity without personally appearing at an
administrative hearing by:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Filing a notarized statement of facts specifying the grounds for
challenging the violation notice which must be filed with the Traffic
Compliance Administrator postmarked within ten (10) days of the violation
notice issuance. The request shall be deemed filed upon receipt by the Traffic
Compliance Administrator. After the expiration of the ten (10) days after the
issuance of the violation notice, a non-resident may not file said affidavit
and instead must personally appear for said adjudication. Said personal
appearance may be through counsel.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The Hearing Officer shall make a decision based upon the facts set
forth in the notarized statement of facts filed by the nonresident as well as
the facts set forth on the violation notice.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Notice of the determination of the Hearing Officer shall be served
upon the nonresident by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the
nonresident at the address set forth in the statement of facts submitted.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Service of the notice shall be complete on the date the notice is
placed in the United States mail.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Applicability Of Other Provisions To Nonresidents: All other provisions
of this chapter shall apply equally to nonresidents of this Village. (Ord. 09-
66, 12-21-2009; amd. Ord. CO-2021-12, 8-16-2021)
7-4-13: FINES AND PENALTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Schedule Of Fines And Penalties: The fines and penalties which shall be
imposed for the violation of vehicular standing, parking, or compliance
regulation violation(s) shall be as follows:
FINE PAYMENT SCHEDULE
Step Upon service of a "violation notice" issued and if paid prior to the end of the
1.   initial hearing, the fine amount will be:
Â    1.Â Â Â General standing, parking or compliance violations (excluding violations of
     section 7-4-2(D) - truck parking), fifty dollars ($50.00);
     2.Â Â Â Violations of Section
Â    7-4-2(D) - truck parking, seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00);
     * The fine for violations of Section
     7-4-2(D) shall not be subject to a second hearing. Said fine shall be final.
Â    3.Â Â Â Disabled parking violations, three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00).
Step Having failed to pay the fine amount specified in step 1, the fine amount, if
2.   paid after the initial hearing and prior to the end of the second hearing will
     be:
Â    1.Â Â Â General standing, parking or compliance violations, one hundred dollars
     ($100.00);
Â    2.Â Â Â Disabled parking violations, three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00).
Step Having failed to pay the fine amount specified in step 2 and upon the finding of
3.   liability for the violation, after failure to appear at the second hearing, the
     fine amount will be:
Â    1.Â Â Â General standing, parking or compliance violations, one hundred fifty
     dollars ($150.00);
Â    2.Â Â Â Disabled parking violations, three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00).
Â 
The fines and penalties herein set forth shall be uniformly applied for each
violation of this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Immobilization Fee: If a motor vehicle has been immobilized pursuant to
this chapter, the owner of record of the motor vehicle is responsible for the
payment of an immobilization fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) ("immobilization
fee") in addition to the other fines, fees and expenses set forth in this
chapter.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Impound/Towing Fee: If a motor vehicle has been subject to towing and
impoundment under this chapter the owner of record of said motor vehicle shall
be liable to the Village for an impoundment fee in an amount of fifty dollars
($50.00) ("impoundment fee") plus the payment of the actual costs charged to
the Village by the towing company for towing fees, and the payment of a storage
fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) for each day of storage or the actual cost
charged to the Village if not stored by the Village (whichever fee is greater).
(Ord. 2018-12, 5-7-2018; amd. Ord. CO-2021-12, 8-16-2021; Ord. CO-2024-9, 5-20-
2024)
7-4-14: RESERVED:
(Reserved by Ord. CO-2021-12, 8-16-2021)
7-4-15: IMMOBILIZATION, IMPOUNDMENT AND TOWING:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Procedure For A Registered Owner Having Three Or More Unpaid Vehicular
Violations And For Other Violations Of This Chapter: Any motor vehicle whose
registered owner has been determined to be liable for three (3) or more
vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulation violation(s), for which
the fines or penalties assessed remain unpaid, or who has violated Section
7-4-2(D)(1) and (2) related to trailer parking, may be immobilized or towed and
impounded if:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The traffic compliance administrator has determined that a person
has been determined to be liable for three (3) or more vehicular standing,
parking, or compliance regulation violation(s), the fines or penalties for
which remain unpaid, or for a violations of Section 7-4-2(D)(1) and (2)..
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The person determined to be liable for three (3) or more violations
of this code or for a violations of Section7-4-2(D)(1) and (2) is the
registered owner of a motor vehicle.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A pretowing notice has been sent to the registered owner of the
motor vehicle which contains, but shall not be limited to, the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â That a final determination has been made on three (3) or more
vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulation violation(s), the fines
and penalties for which remain unpaid. However, for violations of Section 7-4-2
(D)(1) and (2), a pre-towing notice shall not be required and the trailer may
be impounded without a final determination subject to the hearing procedure
provided herein (See Section 7-4-15(B)).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â A listing of the violation(s) for which the person has been
determined to be liable, which shall include for each violation:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â The vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulation
violation notice number.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Date of issuance.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Total amount of fine(s) and penalty(ies) assessed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â That the motor vehicle(s) owned by the person and located within
the village is subject to immobilization and/or towing and impoundment if the
fines and penalties are not paid within fourteen (14) days of the date of the
notice.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â That the registered owner may contest the validity of the notice
by fully completing and signing the request for hearing portion of one notice
and by filing the request for hearing with the traffic compliance administrator
within, but not later than fourteen (14) days of the date of the notice.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â The request for hearing shall be deemed filed upon receipt by the
traffic compliance administrator.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â That if the motor vehicle has been immobilized pursuant to this
chapter, the owner of record of the motor vehicle is responsible for the
payment of an immobilization fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) ("immobilization
fee") in addition to the other fines, fees and expenses set forth in this
chapter. If the motor vehicle owner fails to pay the immobilization fee and
fails to act within the time parameters set forth herein, the motor vehicle
will be towed and impounded pursuant to this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The motor vehicle(s) of the registered owner to whom notice is sent
has failed to make payment of the fines or penalties as specified in the notice
and no timely request for hearing has been filed with the traffic compliance
administrator to contest the validity of the notice.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Request For Hearing To Contest Validity Of Pretowing Notice:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Upon the receipt of the request for hearing to contest the validity
of the pretowing notice of impending immobilization or towing and impoundment,
or the impoundment of a trailer pursuant to Section
7-4-2(D)(1) and (2), the traffic compliance administrator shall schedule an
administrative hearing to contest the validity of said notice, by disproving
liability for the unpaid final determinations of parking, standing, or
compliance violation liability listed on the notice, on the next available
hearing date, but in no case shall the hearing be scheduled later than sixty
(60) days after the request for hearing is filed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The traffic compliance administrator shall serve notice of the
hearing date upon the registered owner.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Notice shall be sent by first class mail, postage prepaid to the
address as is set forth on the request for hearing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Service of the notice shall be complete on the date it is placed
in the United States mail.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The registered owner of a vehicle(s) immobilized or towed and
impounded under this chapter, shall have the right to a prompt administrative
hearing without the requirement of payment of outstanding fines and penalties
for which final determination has been made.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Immobilization And Towing: If a motor vehicle is determined to be
eligible for immobilization and is subsequently immobilized pursuant to this
chapter, a notice shall be placed on the vehicle, in a conspicuous manner,
warning that such vehicle has been immobilized and that any attempt to move the
vehicle may result in damage to the vehicle. The notice shall state how to
obtain information regarding release of the immobilization device and the
vehicle. The notice shall also state that payment of all fines owed; or the
posting of a bond with acceptable security in an amount of all fines and fees
owed to the village; the payment of the immobilization fee; and the request for
a court hearing on the same will result in the release of the vehicle. If forty
eight (48) hours after the immobilization, the owner has not sought release of
the vehicle, the vehicle may be towed to a specified location for impoundment.
(Ord. 09-66, 12-21-2009; amd. CO-2024-9, 5-20-2024)
7-4-16: POSTTOWING NOTICE:
The traffic compliance administrator shall serve a posttowing notice upon the
registered owner of a vehicle immobilized or towed and impounded under this
chapter which notice shall contain, but not be limited to, the following
information:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Date of immobilization or towing and date of impoundment.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Location of vehicle.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â That the vehicle was immobilized under this chapter for nonpayment of
fines or penalties assessed for the violation of three (3) or more violations
of vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulation(s) for which the
registered owner has been determined liable and notified of impending
immobilization or towing and impoundment.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Date of pretowing notice of impending immobilization or towing and
impoundment.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â That the registered owner may contest the validity of the
immobilization or towing and impoundment by completing and signing the request
for hearing portion of the notice and filing the request for hearing with the
traffic compliance administrator within, but not later than, fourteen (14) days
of the date of the notice which shall be deemed filed upon receipt by the
traffic compliance administrator.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â That if the vehicle is not claimed and released pursuant to this
section, within thirty (30) days after the date of the posttowing notice, then
the vehicle shall be determined to be abandoned and shall be sold at public
sale or disposed of pursuant to section
6-8-7 of this code.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â That if the motor vehicle has been immobilized, towed and impounded
pursuant to this chapter, the owner of record of the motor vehicle is
responsible for the payment of the immobilization fee of fifty dollars
($50.00), the payment of the impoundment fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) and the
payment of the actual costs charged to the village by the towing company for
towing fees, and the payment of a storage fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00)
for each day of storage or the actual cost charged to the village if not stored
by the village (whichever fee is greater) in addition to any and all fines and
penalties owed to the village as it relates to the motor vehicle or otherwise
owed to the village by the motor vehicle owner.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â That in order for the village to release the motor vehicle to the owner
of record, the owner of record must pay fines, penalties, fees and charges as
defined in this chapter or successfully contest the towing and impoundment as
described in section
7-4-17 of this chapter and obtain an order from the hearing officer to that
effect. Whenever a person or other entity with a lien of record against an
impounded motor vehicle has proof of commenced repossession proceedings, and
also provides the village with a hold harmless letter, possession of the motor
vehicle shall be given to that lienholder upon payment of the five hundred
dollars ($500.00) impoundment fee and all towing and storage costs.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â That prior to releasing the motor vehicle to the lawful owner or person
entitled to possess the motor vehicle such person must possess a valid
operator's license, proof of ownership or registration, and proof of liability
insurance. However, if the vehicle is being towed from the location of
impoundment, only proof of ownership must be provided. (Ord. 09-66, 12-21-2009;
amd. Ord. CO-2021-12, 8-16-2021)
7-4-17: CONTEST VALIDITY OF IMMOBILIZATION OR TOWING AND IMPOUNDMENT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Hearing: Upon the receipt of the request for hearing to contest the
validity of the immobilization or towing and impoundment, the traffic
compliance administrator shall schedule an administrative hearing to contest
the validity of the immobilization or towing and impoundment on the next
available hearing date or if sooner scheduled by the traffic compliance
administrator for good cause shown, but in no case shall the hearing be
scheduled later than sixty (60) days after the request for hearing is filed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The traffic compliance administrator shall serve notice of the
hearing date upon the registered owner.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Notice shall be sent by certified or first class mail, postage
prepaid to the address as is set forth on the request for hearing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Service of the notice shall be complete on the date it is placed in
the United States mail.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Vehicle Ownership, Prima Facie Proof: The fact that an automobile which
is in violation of this code is registered in the name of a person shall be
considered prima facie proof that such person was in control of the automobile
at the time of such parking.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Final Administrative Decision: An order entered after the hearing to
contest the validity of the immobilization or towing and impoundment is a final
administrative decision within the meaning of 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
3-101 et seq., incorporated herein by reference.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Release Of Vehicle: A vehicle impounded pursuant to this chapter shall
be released to the registered owner thereof, or his, her or its agent, upon
payment of the fines and penalties for the underlying violations due and owing
the village as specified in the posttowing notice as described in section
7-4-16 of this chapter and the payment of towing charges and accrued daily
storage charges, immobilization fees and impoundment fees as more fully
described in section
7-4-13 of this chapter or upon order of the hearing officer following the
hearing contesting the validity of the impoundment.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Judicial Review: Judicial review of final determinations of vehicular
standing, parking, or compliance regulation violation(s) and final
administrative decisions issued after hearing(s) regarding vehicle
immobilization or towing and impoundment made under this section shall be
subject to the provisions of the administrative review law as is set forth in
735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-101 et seq., incorporated herein by
reference.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Debt To Village: Any fine, penalty or part of any fine or any penalty
assessed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and remaining unpaid
after the exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust administrative remedies
created under this section and the conclusion of any judicial review procedures
shall be a debt due and owing the village and, as such, may be collected in
accordance with the applicable law. Payment in full of any fine or penalty
resulting from a standing, parking, or compliance violation shall constitute a
final disposition of that violation.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Judgment: The traffic compliance administrator shall, following the
expiration of the period within which administrative or judicial review may be
sought for a final determination of violation, take all necessary action(s),
execute all required documents and collect monies from the person(s) who has
been assessed fines or penalties which remain unpaid and have become a debt due
and owing the village in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3 plus costs by:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Filing a complaint in the circuit court for the entry of a judgment
against the person for whom a final determination of standing, parking, or
compliance regulation violation(s) liability has been made.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The complaint filed by the traffic compliance administrator or
individual or agency on behalf of the village seeking entry of a judgment
against the registered owner of the motor vehicle for unpaid fines and/or
penalties pursuant to a final determination of standing, parking, or compliance
regulation violation(s) shall have appended:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â A certified copy of the final determination of the standing,
parking, or compliance regulation violation(s).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â A certification that recites facts sufficient to show that the
final determination of standing, parking, or compliance regulation violation(s)
was issued in accordance with this section and 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/11-208.3.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Lienholders: Whenever a person or other entity with a lien of record
against an impounded motor vehicle has proof of commenced repossession
proceedings, and also provides the village with a hold harmless letter,
possession of the motor vehicle shall be given to that lienholder upon payment
of any immobilization or impoundment fees, all towing and storage cost and all
other charges, fines and penalties specified in this chapter.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Consolidation Of Multiple Final Determinations: Nothing shall prevent
the village from consolidating multiple final determinations of standing,
parking, or compliance regulation violation(s) liability in an action in the
circuit court against an individual and from pursuing all available remedies,
allowed by law, to collect money judgments.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Maximum Fines: Service of process and a copy of the complaint may be
served upon the person against whom a judgment is sought under the provisions
of this chapter by any method provided under 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
2-203, incorporated by reference, or by certified mail, return receipt
requested, provided the total amount of fines and penalties for final
determination of standing, parking, or compliance regulation violation(s) does
not exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00). (Ord. 09-66, 12-21-
2009)
CHAPTER 5
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
SECTION:
7-5-1: No Turns
7-5-2: Through Truck Routes
7-5-3: One-Way Streets And Alleys
7-5-4: Two-Way Streets
7-5-5: Stop Streets
7-5-6: Parking Restrictions
7-5-6-1: No Parking Zones
7-5-6-2: Time-Limit Parking
7-5-7: Limited Load Streets
7-5-8: Posting Signs
7-5-9: Cul-De-Sacs
7-5-10: Automated Traffic Law Enforcement System
7-5-1: NO TURNS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No Left Turns: It shall be unlawful for the operator of any motor
vehicle to make any of the following prohibited left turns:
From Roosevelt Road to the service drives and from the service drives to
Roosevelt Road, where the service drives are located west of 25th Avenue in the
Village.
From the 15th Street exit of Hines Hospital entering 9th Avenue.
Southbound on 25th Avenue at Fillmore Street, Harvard Street and the alley
north of Roosevelt Road, from the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to nine
o'clock (9:00) P.M., except on weekends and holidays.
Traveling northbound on 9th Avenue from the hours of three o'clock (3:00) P.M.
to five o'clock (5:00) P.M. at the following locations:
Alley between Roosevelt Road and 13th Street
13th Street
14th Street
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No Right Turns At Certain Times:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â It is hereby prohibited and shall be unlawful for the operator of
any motor vehicle to turn right from the hours of six oâ€™clock (6:00) A.M. to
nine oâ€™clock (9:00) A.M. and from three oâ€™clock (3:00) P.M. to six oâ€™clock (6:
00) P.M., except on weekends and holidays, at the following intersections:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Northbound on 25th Avenue at 13th Street, 14th Street and at the alley
south of Roosevelt Road.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â It is hereby prohibited and shall be unlawful for the operator of
any motor vehicle who is not a resident of the Village to turn right from the
hours of six oâ€™clock (6:00) A.M. to nine oâ€™clock (9:00) A.M. and from three
oâ€™clock (3:00) P.M. to six oâ€™clock (6:00) P.M., except on weekends at the
following intersections:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Northbound on 17th Avenue at 13th Street
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Northbound on 17th Avenue at 14th Street
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â No Right Turns: It is hereby prohibited and shall be unlawful for the
operator of any motor vehicle to turn right at any time onto southbound 16th
Avenue from the eastside exits from any business located at the southwest
corner of 16th Avenue and Roosevelt Road.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â It is hereby prohibited and shall be unlawful for the operator of any
motor vehicle measuring forty two feet (42') or more, with or without a trailer
attached, to turn either right or left onto any residential street off of
Roosevelt Road from 25th Avenue to 9th Avenue.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â It is hereby prohibited and shall be unlawful for the operator of any
motor vehicle measuring forty two feet (42') or more, with or without a trailer
attached, to turn either right or left onto any residential street off of 17th
Avenue from Roosevelt Road to Fillmore Street.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be fined not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). In addition to any fines provided in this
section, a violator shall also be held liable for the cost of repairing or
replacing any damage to the curb or other Village-owned property. (Ord. 99-01,
1-19-1999; amd. Ord. 2019-25, 11-4-2019; Ord. CO-2023-25, 9-18-2023)
7-5-2: THROUGH TRUCK ROUTES:
It is hereby prohibited for any through truck traffic to use any of the
residential streets in the Village. The following streets are hereby designated
as through truck traffic streets:
Â Â Â Bataan Drive
Â Â Â Cermak Road
Â Â Â Gardner Road
Â Â Â Roosevelt Road
Â Â Â Seventeenth Avenue
Â Â Â 25th Avenue
Through truck traffic is specifically prohibited on 16th Avenue, south of the
first alley south of Roosevelt Road. (Ord. 99-01, 1-19-1999)
7-5-3: ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS:
It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle on any street in any direction other
than that so designated, and it shall be unlawful to drive a vehicle through an
alley unless that person owns property abutting said alley or unless for an
express business purpose. Under no circumstances are alleys to be used as a
thoroughfare for through traffic. (Ord. 2014-56, 10-6-2014)
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â North: Traffic movement along the following streets shall be north, and
it shall be unlawful for any vehicle to proceed on such streets in a southerly
direction:
Â Â Â The 1800 and 1900 blocks of 15th Avenue.
18th Avenue from Roosevelt Road to Harvard Street.
20th Avenue from Roosevelt Road to Harvard Street.
22nd Avenue from Roosevelt Road to Harvard Street.
24th Avenue from Roosevelt Road to Harvard Street.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â South: Traffic movement along the following streets shall be south, and
it shall be unlawful for any vehicle to proceed on such streets in a northerly
direction:
Â Â Â The 1900 block of 14th Avenue.
19th Avenue from Harvard Street to Roosevelt Road.
21st Avenue from Harvard Street to the east-west alley immediately to the north
of Roosevelt Road.
23rd Avenue from Harvard Street to Roosevelt Road.
North-south alleyway between 14th and 13th Avenue from Bataan Drive to
Lexington Avenue.
North-south alleyway between 15th and 14th Avenue from Bataan Drive to
Lexington Avenue.
North-south alleyway between 16th and 15th Avenue from Bataan Drive to
Lexington Avenue. (Ord. 12-13, 5-7-2012)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â East: Traffic movement along the following streets shall be east, and
it shall be unlawful for any vehicle to proceed on such streets in a westerly
direction:
The south frontage road (Bataan Drive) of the Congress Street Expressway from
the easterly limits to the westerly limits of the Village.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â West: Traffic movement along the following streets shall be west, and
it shall be unlawful for any vehicle to proceed on such streets in an easterly
direction:
The first east-west alley south of Roosevelt Road between 17th and 18th Avenues
is hereby designated a one-way vehicular traffic alley and the direction of
permissible traffic movement shall be west, and it shall be unlawful for any
vehicle to proceed in such alley in an easterly direction.
The north frontage road (Harrison Street) of the Congress Street Expressway
from the easterly limits to the westerly limits of the Village.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â One-Way Alleys, North And South: The following alley on Sundays only:
The north-south alley between 16th and 17th Avenues from Fillmore to the T-
intersection of the alley just north of Roosevelt Road is hereby designated a
one-way vehicular traffic alley and the direction of permissible traffic
movement shall be south, and it shall be unlawful for any vehicle to proceed in
such alley in a northerly direction, and said restriction shall only apply to
vehicular traffic on Sundays. (1987 Code)
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â One-Way Alleys, East And West: The following alley:
The east-west alley immediately north of Roosevelt Road between 16th Avenue and
17th Avenue is hereby designated as a one-way vehicular traffic alley and the
direction of permissible traffic movement shall be west. (Ord. 2014-07, 1-21-
2014)
7-5-4: TWO-WAY STREETS:
All other north-south streets or portions thereof not enumerated in section
7-5-3 of this chapter shall be two-way vehicular traffic streets. (1987 Code)
7-5-5: STOP STREETS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Operation Of Vehicle At Stop Streets: The driver of a vehicle shall
stop in obedience to a stop sign at an intersection where a stop sign is
erected at one or more entrances thereto, and shall proceed cautiously yielding
to the vehicles not so obliged to stop which are within the intersection or
approaching so close as to constitute an immediate hazard, unless traffic at
such intersection is controlled by a police officer on duty, in which event the
directions of the police officer shall be complied with. (1987 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Stop Streets Designated: All vehicular traffic shall come to a stop
before proceeding into the following intersections:
CERMAK ROAD BRIDGE:
Southbound, before proceeding into the north service drive on the east end,
21st Avenue.
ERIKA DRIVE:
Four-way stop Sunnydale Avenue, Erika Drive.
Eastbound traffic only, Terry Lane.
Southbound traffic only, Terry Lane.
Southbound traffic only, 24th Avenue.
FILLMORE STREET:
Eastbound traffic only, 13th Avenue.
Eastbound and westbound traffic, 15th Avenue.
Eastbound and westbound traffic, 16th Avenue.
Northbound traffic only, 18th Avenue.
Eastbound, westbound and southbound traffic, 19th Avenue.
Northbound traffic only, 20th Avenue.
Eastbound, westbound and southbound traffic, 21st Avenue.
HARVARD STREET:
Eastbound traffic only, 13th Avenue.
Four-way stop at 14th Avenue.
Four-way stop at 15th Avenue.
Four-way stop at 16th Avenue.
Eastbound and westbound traffic, 19th Avenue.
Eastbound and westbound traffic, 21st Avenue.
Eastbound and westbound traffic, 23rd Avenue.
LEXINGTON STREET:
Northbound traffic only, Beach Street and Lexington Street.
Westbound traffic only, Lexington Street and Beach Street.
Eastbound traffic only, 13th Avenue.
Eastbound and westbound traffic, 15th Avenue.
9TH AVENUE:
Northbound and southbound traffic, 13th Street.
Northbound and southbound traffic, 14th Street.
13TH STREET:
Eastbound traffic only, 9th Avenue.
Eastbound and westbound traffic, 11th Avenue.
Eastbound and westbound traffic, 13th Avenue.
Eastbound and westbound traffic, 15th Avenue.
Eastbound and westbound traffic, 19th Avenue.
Eastbound and westbound traffic, 21st Avenue.
Eastbound and westbound traffic, 23rd Avenue.
14TH STREET:
Eastbound traffic only, 9th Avenue.
Four-way stop signs, 11th Avenue.
Four-way stop signs, 13th Avenue.
Four-way stop signs, 15th Avenue.
Four-way stop signs, 19th Avenue.
Four-way stop signs, 21st Avenue.
Four-way stop signs, 23rd Avenue.
Northbound and southbound traffic, 10th Avenue.
Northbound and southbound traffic, 12th Avenue.
Northbound and southbound traffic, 14th Avenue.
Northbound and southbound traffic, 16th Avenue.
Northbound and southbound traffic, 18th Avenue.
Northbound and southbound traffic, 20th Avenue.
Northbound and southbound traffic, 22nd Avenue.
Southbound traffic only, 24th Avenue.
15TH STREET:
Eastbound traffic only, 9th Avenue.
Eastbound and westbound traffic, 11th Avenue.
Eastbound and westbound traffic, 13th Avenue.
Eastbound and westbound traffic, 15th Avenue.
Eastbound and westbound traffic, 19th Avenue.
16TH AVENUE:
Eastbound traffic only, 9th Avenue.
Eastbound and westbound traffic, 15th Avenue.
18TH AVENUE:
Northbound and southbound traffic, 19th Street.
Eastbound and westbound traffic, 21st Street.
18TH STREET:
Eastbound traffic only, 9th Avenue.
Westbound traffic only, 13th Avenue.
Southbound traffic only, 11th Avenue.
19TH STREET:
Traffic exiting the 19th Street apartment complex at the driveway located on
the east end. Said driveway is midway between 9th Avenue and 10th Avenue.
Northbound and southbound traffic, 11th Avenue.
Northbound and southbound traffic, 12th Avenue.
Southbound traffic only, 13th Avenue.
Northbound traffic only, 19th Avenue.
21ST STREET:
Eastbound traffic only, 9th Avenue.
Eastbound and westbound traffic, 11th Avenue.
Westbound traffic only, 13th Avenue.
26TH STREET:
Eastbound or westbound traffic, 23rd Street. (Ord. 12-13, 5-7-2012; amd. Ord.
2017-129, 8-21-2017)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Posting Signs: All intersections must be posted before this section
becomes operative.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be fined not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than two hundred
dollars ($200.00). (1987 Code)
7-5-6: PARKING RESTRICTIONS 1 :
Â 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 4 of this title, particularly section 7-4-6 of this title for
  penalties for violating this section.
7-5-6-1: NO PARKING ZONES:
No person shall let any vehicle stand or park at any time at any of the
following locations:
BEACH AVENUE:
From Gardner Road to Beach Street.
BEACH STREET:
Between Lexington Street and Beach Avenue.
East side between Lexington Street and Harvard Street.
CERMAK ROAD:
From Gardner Road to Ninth Avenue.
North side from 9th Avenue to 21st Avenue.
North and south service drives from IHB to 21st Avenue.
CRESCENT DRIVE:
North side from 25th Avenue to 16th Street.
LEXINGTON STREET:
Between Beach Street and 25th Avenue.
FIRST ALLEY NORTH OF LEXINGTON STREET:
Between Beach Street and 25th Avenue.
ROBERTS DRIVE:
North side from 21st Avenue to the end of complete cul-de-sac except for
loading zone commencing at the driveway entrance to 2101 Roberts Drive thence
westerly a distance of 50 feet.
ROOSEVELT ROAD:
From Gardner Road to Ninth Avenue.
From Ninth Avenue to 25th Avenue.
South side, 40 feet from the crosswalk west of 9th Avenue.
South side, 40 feet from the crosswalk east of 10th Avenue.
South side, 40 feet from the crosswalk east of 12th Avenue.
North side, 40 feet from the crosswalk east of 15th Avenue.
Between 16th Avenue and 18th Avenue.
North and south sides from 23rd Avenue to 25th Avenue.
Trucks, south side from 9th Avenue through 25th Avenue, inclusive.
Trucks, north side from 13th Avenue through 25th Avenue, inclusive.
10TH AVENUE:
West side from Cermak Road north to the alley line.
11TH AVENUE:
East side from Cermak Road north to the alley line.
12TH AVENUE:
West side from 19th Street to I.C. tracks.
13TH AVENUE:
West side from Cermak Road to I.C. tracks.
16TH STREET:
From Addison Creek to 21st Avenue.
From 25th Avenue east to Addison Creek.
North side between 13th Avenue and 15th Avenue.
South side from IHB to 25th Avenue.
South side between 21st Avenue to end of complete cul-de-sac.
17TH AVENUE:
East side from Bataan Drive to a point 125 feet south of center line of Bataan
Drive.
East side from Roosevelt Road to a point 174 feet south from the center line of
Roosevelt Road.
From Roosevelt Road north to the alley.
18TH AVENUE:
West side from 19th Street north 225 feet.
West side from 19th Street to Cermak Road.
East side from Cermak Road to first alley north.
19TH AVENUE:
West side from 19th Street to Cermak Road.
19TH STREET:
North side between 17th Avenue and 18th Avenue.
South side between 17th Avenue and 18th Avenue.
South side from radius of 21st Avenue to 17th Avenue.
21ST AVENUE:
East side from 16th Street to 19th Street including radius on west side of 19th
Street.
21ST STREET:
South side from Addison Creek to 17th Avenue.
23RD PLACE:
From 26th Avenue to 25th Avenue.
23RD STREET:
From 27th Avenue to 25th Avenue.
25TH AVENUE:
East side from Cermak Road to Harvard Street.
West side from Cermak Road north to the Eisenhower Expressway.
East and west sides from Fillmore Street to 13th Street.
From south service drive of Cermak Road south to Village limits.
Within the vicinity of the bridge over Addison Creek.
26TH AVENUE:
East side from south service drive of Cermak Road to 23rd Place.
27TH AVENUE:
East side from 16th Street to end of cul-de-sac. (1987 Code; amd. Ord. 92-16,
6-15-1992; Ord. 92-27, 9-8-1992; Ord. 98-06, 4-27-1998; Ord. 98-07, 4-27-1998;
Ord. 2001-11, 5-8-2001; Ord. 2016-22, 5-16-2016)
7-5-6-2: TIME-LIMIT PARKING:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Two Hour Parking: No person shall let stand or park any vehicle for a
period longer than two (2) hours on any day of the week except Sundays and
holidays as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â In any of the streets in the area bounded as follows:
On the north, the Illinois Central Railroad right-of- way; on the east, the
east side of 17th Avenue; on the south, the north side of Cermak Road; and on
the west, the east side of Gardner Road.
The boundaries established in this subsection shall become effective when the
Director of Public Works or the Chief of Police has caused the proper signs to
be posted in the streets on which parking is limited, indicating such
limitation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â From nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. to eight o'clock (8:00) P.M.:
27TH AVENUE:
East side between Lexington Street and Bataan Drive.
13th Avenue to 24th Avenue, both inclusive, with the exception of 17th Avenue,
from the alley north of Roosevelt Road and running parallel with Roosevelt
Road, to the alley south of Roosevelt Road and running parallel with Roosevelt
Road.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Additional Time-Limit Parking:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No person shall let stand or park any vehicle on the following
streets between the hours of six thirty o'clock (6:30) A.M. and nine o'clock
(9:00) A.M. and three thirty o'clock (3:30) P.M. and six thirty o'clock (6:30)
P.M., except on Sundays and holidays:
ROOSEVELT ROAD:
South side, 40 feet from the crosswalk west of 10th Avenue.
South side, 40 feet from the crosswalk west of 11th Avenue.
South side, 40 feet from the crosswalk west of 12th Avenue.
South side, 40 feet from the crosswalk west of 21st Avenue.
South side, 40 feet from the crosswalk west of 22nd Avenue.
South side, 40 feet from the crosswalk west of 23rd Avenue.
South side, 40 feet from the crosswalk west of 24th Avenue.
East and west sides north to the first alley on 17th Avenue. At all other
times, parking shall be limited to one hour.
16TH STREET:
North side from 17th Avenue to a point 160 feet east from the center line of
17th Avenue.
17TH AVENUE:
East side from the center line of Roosevelt Road south to 13th Street.
25TH AVENUE:
East side from Roosevelt Road to 13th Street.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Parking shall be prohibited from six thirty o'clock (6:30) A.M. to
nine thirty o'clock (9:30) A.M. and from three thirty o'clock (3:30) P.M. to
six thirty o'clock (6:30) P.M. on the following streets:
25TH AVENUE:
East side from Roosevelt Road to Fillmore Street.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â No person shall let stand or park any vehicle on the following
streets between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00)
A.M. and three o'clock (3:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M., except on
weekends and holidays:
17TH AVENUE:
East side from 16th Street north to Bataan Drive.
West side from Central Drive north to Harvard Street.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Sunday Morning Parking: No person shall let stand or park any vehicle
on the following streets on Sunday, between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M.:
16TH AVENUE:
West side from alley north of Roosevelt Road north to Harvard.
18TH AVENUE:
West side from alley north of Roosevelt Road north to Harvard.
FILLMORE STREET:
North side between 15th Avenue and 19th Avenue.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Restricted Parking - Loading Zone:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No person shall let stand or park any vehicle on the following
street between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00)
A.M. on every day of the week, except for the purpose of loading or unloading
merchandise for the adjacent business:
16TH AVENUE:
West side from Roosevelt Road south to a point 248 feet south of the centerline
of Roosevelt Road.
(Ord. 99-01, 1-19-1999)
7-5-7: LIMITED LOAD STREETS:
Whenever the weight of vehicles permitted on a street is limited by ordinance
and signs indicating such limitations are posted, it shall be unlawful to
operate a vehicle in excess of such weight on such street, except for the
purpose of making delivery or picking up a load, in which case such vehicle may
be driven on such street for not more than the minimum distance necessary for
the purpose. (1987 Code)
7-5-8: POSTING SIGNS:
The Chief of Police or any other person designated by the President or Board of
Trustees shall post or cause to be posted suitable signs for all through
streets, one-way streets or alleys and stop intersections. (1987 Code)
7-5-9: CUL-DE-SACS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Locations: The following thoroughfares shall be cul-de- sacs at the
locations provided below:
Filmore Street at 13th Avenue.
Lexington Street at 13th Avenue.
14th Avenue at Bataan Drive.
15th Avenue at Bataan Drive.
16th Avenue at Bataan Drive.
The north-south alleyway between 17th and 16th Avenues at Bataan Drive.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Posting Signs: All cul-de-sacs must be constructed and properly
identified before this section shall become operative. (Ord. 12-13, 5-7-2012)
7-5-10: AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM:
This section provides for an automated traffic law enforcement system, which
detects motor vehicles which fail to abide by traffic-control signals at
intersections under penalty of a fine, and a system of administrative
adjudication by which such detected infractions shall be resolved.
It shall be a violation of this section for anyone to operate a vehicle in
disregard of a traffic control device or to turn right on a red light where it
is posted "No Turn on Red".
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Automated Traffic Law Enforcement System:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Detection: As used in the section, "automated traffic law
enforcement system" means a device within the Village with one or more motor
vehicle sensors working in conjunction with a red light signal to produce
recorded images of motor vehicles entering an intersection against a steady or
flashing red signal indication in violation of section 11-306 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-306. The automated traffic
law enforcement system shall not be used to enforce speed limit regulations.
The recorded images produced by the automated traffic law enforcement system,
which consists of either two (2) or more photographs or two (2) or more
electronic images of a video recording showing the motor vehicle, shall capture
and display images of the vehicle allegedly violating traffic-control signals,
together with the license plate on such vehicle, and shall also show the time,
date and location of the violation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Signage: Any intersection equipped with an automated traffic law
enforcement system must have a sign posted which is visible to approaching
traffic indicating that the intersection is being monitored by an automated
traffic law enforcement system.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Notice Of Violation: When the automated traffic law enforcement
system records a motor vehicle entering an intersection in spite of a steady or
flashing red signal indicating a violation of section 11-306 of the Illinois
Vehicle Code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 15/11-306, this shall be deemed a
non-criminal violation for which a civil penalty of one hundred dollars
($100.00) shall be assessed and for which no points shall be assigned by the
Illinois Motor Vehicle Code Point System for License Suspension to the owner or
driver of the vehicle. The Village shall issue a written notice of the
violation to the registered owner or lessee of the vehicle, which shall be
mailed by first class mail within thirty (30) days after the Illinois Secretary
of State notifies the Village of the identity of the registered owner or lessee
of the vehicle, and in no event later than ninety (90) days following the
violation. Each notice of violation associated with an automated traffic law
violation shall require a review of the associated recorded image by an officer
or retired officer of the Village Police Department empowered under this
section to determine whether a red light offense has occurred or whether one of
the defenses enumerated in subsection A5 of this section is visibly applicable
upon inspection. Upon determination that the recorded image captures a
violation of one of the foregoing provisions and that no defense applies, the
notice of violation shall be served upon the registered vehicle owner in the
manner provided for below. The Traffic Compliance Administrator shall retain a
copy of all violation notices, recorded images and other correspondence mailed
to the alleged violator. Each notice of violation, which shall constitute
evidence of the facts contained in the notice and is admissible in any
proceeding alleging a violation of the above-noted statutory and local
provisions and shall establish prima facie evidence of a violation, subject to
rebuttal on the basis of the defenses established in subsection A5 of this
section, shall include the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The name and address of the registered owner or lessee of the
vehicle, as indicated by the records of the Secretary of State, or, if such
information is outdated or unattainable, then the last known address recorded
in a United States Post Office approved database;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The registration number of the motor vehicle involved in the
violation;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The vehicle make, if available and readily discernible;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â The violation charged;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â The location where the violation occurred;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â The date and time of the violation;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â A copy of the recorded images;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â The amount of the civil penalty imposed and the date by which the
civil penalty should be paid if liability for the violation is not going to be
contested;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â i.Â Â Â A statement that the recorded images are evidence of a violation
of a red light signal;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â j.Â Â Â A warning that failure to either pay the civil penalty or contest
liability is an admission of liability and may result in a suspension of the
driving privileges of the registered owner or lessee of the vehicle in addition
to the specified penalties for failing to contest liability or pay the fine in
advance of the hearing. Payment of the civil penalty or contesting of liability
must be done in writing within thirty (30) days of the mailing of the notice of
violation or by attending the administrative hearing;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â k.Â Â Â The date, time and place of the administrative hearing at which
the charge may be contested on its merits, a date that shall be no less than
fifteen (15) days from the mailing or other service of the first notice of
violation;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â l.Â Â Â A statement that payment of the indicated fine and of any
applicable penalty for late payment shall constitute a final disposition of the
violation; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â m.Â Â Â The signature of the party reviewing the recorded images and
confirming that a violation took place.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Penalty And Final Determination Of Violation Liability:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â If the civil penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00) referred to
in subsection A3 of this section is not timely paid or the Notice of Violation
referred to in subsection A3 of this section is not contested timely, a one
hundred dollar ($100.00) penalty will be assessed in addition to the original
one hundred dollar ($100.00) fine by way of "final determination of violation
liability".
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The Village, through its Treasurer, Clerk, Police Department, Law
Department, Administrative Adjudication Program, and/or any other designated
agent of the Village, may establish procedures for the collection of the civil
penalty imposed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Defenses: The following are the only defenses available for an
alleged violator contesting his or her liability for a violation, which shall
be weighed by the Hearing Officer and shall only rebut the prima facie case
established by the notice of liability insofar as one or more of the following
defenses are established by a preponderance of the evidence:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The motor vehicle or registration plates were stolen before the
violation occurred and were not under the control of or in the possession of
the owner at the time of the violation, which may be demonstrated through the
submission of a certified copy of a report concerning the stolen motor vehicle
or registration plates was filed with a law enforcement agency in a timely
manner;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The vehicle was an authorized emergency vehicle;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The driver of the vehicle passed through the intersection in
spite of a red light either to yield the right-of-way to an emergency vehicle
or as part of a funeral procession;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â The facts alleged in the Notice of Violation are inconsistent or
do not support a finding that a violation occurred;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â The operator of the vehicle received a uniform traffic citation
from a police officer at the time of the violation for the same incident as
captured by the automated traffic law enforcement system and either paid such
citation or successfully contested said citation;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â The vehicle was leased to another and within sixty (60) calendar
days after the citation was mailed to lessor, lessor submitted to the
Municipality the correct name and address of the lessee of the vehicle
identified in this Notice of Violation at the time of the alleged violation,
together with a copy of the lease agreement, the lessee's driver's license
number and any additional information that may be needed; and,
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â The respondent was not the registered vehicle owner, lessee or
renter of the cited vehicle at the time of violation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Administrative Adjudication: The Village shall utilize its system of
administrative adjudication for vehicular standing and parking violations,
violations regarding the display of Municipal stickers/licenses, and automated
traffic law violations. The administrative adjudication system for all
violations of this Code subject to administrative adjudication shall be
comprised of a Code Hearing Unit which shall consist of a Hearing Officer and
any other officials deemed necessary, including a Traffic Compliance
Administrator and any ordinances identified by the ordinances of the Village
pertaining to such administrative hearing body. Such officers shall be vested
with the power, authority and limitations as are hereinafter set forth.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Powers Of The Hearing Officer: The Hearing Officer shall have all of
the powers granted to Hearing Officers under 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-
2.1-4, the provisions of which are incorporated herein by reference, including
the power to preside over all administrative hearings as the adjudicator,
administer oaths, hear testimony and accept evidence that is relevant to the
existence of the Code violation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Powers Of The Traffic Compliance Administrator: The Traffic
Compliance Administrator shall have all of the powers granted by 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3(b)(1), the provisions which are incorporated
herein by reference.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Establishment Of Hearing Unit: The Village President is hereby
authorized to appoint necessary officers to establish the Code Hearing Unit and
to otherwise comply with the terms herein.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â Appointment Of Traffic Compliance Administrator: The Village
President, with the advice and consent of the Village Board of Trustees, shall
appoint a Traffic Compliance Administrator, or a designee, who is authorized to
adopt, distribute and process parking, compliance and automated traffic law
violation notices, collect money paid as fines and penalties for the above
noted violations, operate an administrative adjudication system and make
certified reports to the Secretary of State regarding a registered vehicle
owner's failure to pay fines and penalties in accordance with 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/6-306.5. The Village Administrator shall act as the Traffic
Compliance Officer unless or until such position is filled by the President and
Board of Trustees.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â Service Of Violation Notices: Violation notices must be mailed to
the address of the registered owner or lessee of the cited vehicle as recorded
with the Secretary of State within thirty (30) days after the Secretary of
State notifies the Village of the identity of the registered vehicle owner, but
no later than ninety (90) days after the date of the violation. If the notice
of violation is returned as undeliverable, then the notice of violation shall
be sent to the last known address recorded in a United States Post Office
approved database.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 12.Â Â Â Adjudicative Hearing: The hearing shall be tape recorded, and the
Hearing Officer shall conduct the hearing in accordance with his or her powers
and duties enumerated herein. Alleged violators who appear at the
administrative hearing to contest an alleged violation may be represented by
legal counsel at their own expense, however, formal rules of evidence shall not
apply to the administrative hearing. The Hearing Officer shall enter either a
default judgment or a determination of liability or non-liability in accordance
with consideration of the facts and testimony, if any, and shall constitute a
final determination of liability from which an appeal may be taken.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 13.Â Â Â Collection Of Fines And Penalties: Nothing contained in this
section shall prevent the Village from pursuing all available remedies, allowed
by law, to collect fines and payment of penalties owed to Village.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 14.Â Â Â Notice Of Impending Driver's License Suspension: This notice shall
be sent via first class United States mail, postage prepaid, to the address
recorded with the Secretary of State of any person liable for any fine or
penalty due and owing the Village for five (5) or more unpaid automated traffic
law violations. If such mailing is returned as undeliverable, then the Village
shall send the notice to the last known address recorded in a United States
Post Office approved database. If Village subsequently makes a certified report
to the Secretary of State, the subject vehicle owner may challenge the accuracy
of the certified report in writing. To do so, the vehicle owner must submit to
the Administrator a written statement under oath, together with supporting
documentation, establishing one of the following grounds for challenging the
accuracy of the certified report: a) that the person was not the owner or
lessee of the subject vehicle or vehicles receiving five (5) or more automated
traffic law violations on the date or dates such violation notices were issued,
or b) that the person already paid the fines or penalties for the five (5) or
more automated traffic law violations indicated on the certified report. Such
statement and supporting documentation must be sent to the Administrator by
certified mail, return receipt requested, or hand delivered to the
Administrator within five (5) days after the person receives notice from the
Secretary of State that the person's driver's license will be suspended at the
end of a specified period of time unless the Secretary is presented with a
notice from the Village certifying that the fines or penalties due and owing
have been paid or that the inclusion of the person's name on the certified
report was in error.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 15.Â Â Â Procedures For Non-Residents: Where the registered owner or lessee
of the cited vehicle is not a resident of the Village but seeks to contest the
merits of the alleged violation, such persons may contest the charges using the
same available defenses as stated above, and the same procedures - they may
attend the administrative hearing or they may submit any and all documentary
evidence no later than the hearing date referenced in the notice of liability,
together with a written statement reflecting that they are non-residents of the
Village. (Ord. 2019-5, 1-22-2019)
CHAPTER 6
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
SECTION:
7-6-1: Clear Vision
7-6-2: Lights
7-6-2-1: Turn Signal Lights
7-6-2-2: Vehicles Owned By Firemen
7-6-2-3: Bicycles
7-6-3: Horn
7-6-4: Brakes
7-6-5: Mufflers
7-6-6: Tires
7-6-7: Size, Weight And Loads
7-6-8: Prohibited Conditions
7-6-1: CLEAR VISION:
It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which is loaded or in such a
condition that the operator does not have a clear vision of all parts of the
roadway essential to the safe operation of the vehicle. Any view of the roadway
to the rear so obstructed shall be equipped with a mirror so attached as to
give him a view of the roadway behind him. (1987 Code)
7-6-2: LIGHTS:
It shall be unlawful to operate or park on any street any vehicle not equipped
with adequate lights conforming to the requirements of the State law 1 ;
provided, that vehicles may be parked at nighttime without lights on any street
or portion thereof, designated by ordinance as a place where vehicles may so
park at nighttime. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/12-101, 5/12-102 and 5/12-201 et seq.
7-6-2-1: TURN SIGNAL LIGHTS:
Any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped with, and required
signal shall be given by, a signal lamp or lamps or mechanical signal device
when the distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the left
outside limit of the body, cab, or load of such motor vehicle exceeds twenty
four inches (24"), or when the distance from the center of the top of the
steering post to the rear limit of the body or load thereof exceeds fourteen
feet (14') The latter measurement shall apply to any single vehicles, also to
any combination of vehicles. (1987 Code)
7-6-2-2: VEHICLES OWNED BY FIREMEN:
Any motor vehicle owned or usually operated by a volunteer fireman may be
equipped with not to exceed two (2) lamps which shall emit a blue light without
glare. One such lamp may be mounted on the rear of any such vehicle. A flashing
blue light may be used only when such fireman is responding to a fire call.
(1987 Code)
7-6-2-3: BICYCLES:
Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp on the
front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least five
hundred feet (500') to the front, and with a reflector on the rear of a type
which shall be visible from all distances from fifty feet (50') to three
hundred feet (300') to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper beams of
headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from the
distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear may be used in addition to the
red reflector. (1987 Code)
7-6-3: HORN:
Every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a good and sufficient audible
signaling device in efficient working condition. Such signaling device shall be
sounded when necessary to give timely warning of the approach of a vehicle, but
such horn or other signaling device shall not be sounded for any purpose other
than a warning of impending danger.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Emergency Vehicles, Sirens: No motor vehicle other than an emergency
vehicle shall be equipped with a siren or gong signaling device.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Bicycles: No person shall operate a bicycle that is not equipped with a
bell or other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at
least one hundred feet (100'), except that a bicycle shall not be equipped with
nor shall any person use upon a bicycle, any siren or whistle. (1987 Code)
7-6-4: BRAKES:
It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle upon a street unless such
vehicle is equipped with good and sufficient brakes in good working condition,
as required by the State traffic law 1 , or to operate any vehicle which is so
loaded that the operator does not have ready access to the mechanics operating
the brakes of such vehicle.
Every bicycle shall be equipped with a good and adequate brake. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/12-301.
7-6-5: MUFFLERS:
No motor vehicle shall be operated on any street unless such vehicle is
provided with a muffler in efficient actual working condition. The use of a
cutout is prohibited. (1987 Code)
7-6-6: TIRES:
It shall be unlawful to operate on any street any motor vehicle which is not
equipped with tires conforming to the requirements of the State traffic law 2 .
(1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
2 2. 625 ILCS 5/12-401 et seq.
7-6-7: SIZE, WEIGHT AND LOADS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Width, Length, Height; Projecting Loads:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The maximum width and height of any vehicle and its load shall not
exceed the limits expressed in the State traffic law 3 .
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â No passenger type vehicle shall be operated on the streets with a
load extending beyond the line of the fenders on the left side of the vehicle
nor extending more than six inches (6") beyond the line of the fenders of the
right side thereof.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â No vehicle, unladen or with load, shall exceed any length limited by
the traffic laws of the State.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â No combination of vehicles coupled together shall consist of more
than two (2) units, and no such combination of vehicles, unladen or with load,
shall exceed a total length of fifty feet (50'); but such length limitations
shall not apply to vehicles operated in daytime with transporting pipes, poles,
machinery and other objects which cannot be readily dismembered, nor to such
vehicles operated at nighttime by a public utility when engaged in emergency
repair work. Such loads carried at night shall be clearly marked with
sufficient lights to show the full dimensions of the load.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â No part of the load of a vehicle shall extend more than three feet
(3') in front of the extreme front portion of the vehicle.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Weight: It shall be unlawful to drive on any street any motor vehicle
with a weight, including load, in excess of that permitted by the State traffic
law for driving on improved highways, or with weight distributed in a manner
not conforming to such law 1 . (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
3 3. 625 ILCS 5/15-101, 5/15-102.
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/15-111.
7-6-8: PROHIBITED CONDITIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Spilling Loads, Depositing Mud On Streets: No vehicle shall be driven
on any highway or street unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded so as
to prevent any of is load from dropping, shifting, leaking or otherwise
escaping therefrom; nor shall any vehicle be driven from any unimproved or
parcel of land onto any improved public street or alley in the Village without
first having the wheels of such vehicle free from any mud, clay or other refuse
which may be deposited on the public street or alley by the operator of the
vehicle. Any person violating this provision shall be fined not less than
twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00).
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Noisy Vehicles: It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in a manner
prohibited by the noise control provisions of chapter 4-15 of this code.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Excessive Smoke: It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which
emits dense smoke or such an amount of smoke or fumes as to be dangerous to the
health of persons or as to endanger the drivers of other vehicles.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Nonskid Devices: It shall be unlawful to operate upon any street any
motor vehicle equipped with any nonskid device so constructed that any rigid or
nonflexible portion thereof comes into contact with the pavement or roadway.
(1987 Code; amd. Ord. 2014-65, 11-3-2014)
CHAPTER 7
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
7-7-1: Right Of Way
7-7-2: Pedestrian Use Of Roadways
7-7-3: Blind Persons, Right Of Way
7-7-4: Pedestrians To Obey Signals
7-7-1: RIGHT OF WAY:
Where traffic-control signals are not in operation, the driver of a vehicle
shall yield the right of way, slowing down or stopping if need be, to a
pedestrian crossing the roadway or street within any marked crosswalk or within
any unmarked crosswalk.
Whenever stop signals or flashing red signals are in place at an intersection
or a marked crosswalk between intersections, the pedestrian shall have the
right of way over drivers of vehicles; and at such marked places, drivers of
vehicles shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk and any pedestrian
within or entering the crosswalk at either edge of the roadway shall have the
right of way over any vehicle so stopped.
The driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering any crosswalk when any
vehicle proceeding in the same direction is stopped at such crosswalk for the
purpose of permitting a pedestrian to cross. (1987 Code)
7-7-2: PEDESTRIAN USE OF ROADWAYS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Pedestrian Crossings:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â At no place shall a pedestrian cross any roadway other than by the
most direct route to the opposite curbing, and when crossing at any place other
than a crosswalk he shall yield the right of way to all vehicles upon the
roadway.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are
in operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a crosswalk.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â No pedestrian shall cross a roadway other than in a crosswalk in any
business section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â No person shall stand or loiter in any roadway other than in a
safety zone, if such act interferes with the lawful movement of traffic.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Standing On Sidewalks: It shall be unlawful for a pedestrian to stand
upon any sidewalk except as near as reasonably possible to the building line or
curb line, if such standing interferes with the use of the sidewalk by other
pedestrians.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Walking Along Roadways:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Where sidewalks are provided it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of the
roadway or its shoulder facing traffic, and upon meeting a vehicle shall stop
off to the left.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the driver of any vehicle. (1987 Code)
7-7-3: BLIND PERSONS, RIGHT OF WAY:
Any blind person who is carrying in a raised or extended position, a cane or
walking stick which is white in color or white-tipped with red, or who is
guided by a dog, shall have the right of way in crossing any street or highway,
whether or not traffic on such street or highway is controlled by traffic
signals, anything in this Act to the contrary notwithstanding. The driver of
every vehicle approaching the place where a blind person so carrying such a
cane or walking stick or being so guided is crossing a street or highway, shall
bring his vehicle to a full stop and before proceeding shall take such
precautions as may be necessary to avoid injury to the blind person. The
provisions of this Section shall not apply to a blind person who is not
carrying such a cane or walking stick or guided by a guide dog when walking on
streets, highways or sidewalks but shall not be considered evidence of
contributory negligence. (1987 Code)
7-7-4: PEDESTRIANS TO OBEY SIGNALS:
At intersections where traffic is directed by a policeman or by a stop and go
signal, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian to cross the roadway other than
with released traffic, if such crossing interferes with the lawful movement of
traffic. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 8
ALTERNATIVE PENALTIES
SECTION:
7-8-1: Adoption Of The Illinois Vehicle Code By Reference
7-8-2: Compliance Warning Tickets
7-8-1: ADOPTION OF THE ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE BY REFERENCE:
Pursuant to section 20-204 of the Illinois Vehicle Code 1 , the Illinois
Vehicle Code is hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter by reference and
shall be applicable in the Village. Any person who violates any provision of
the Illinois Vehicle Code within the Village shall be cited for that violation
in the manner and form as prescribed by law and as may be required subject to a
fine up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 2017-126, 8-7-2017)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
7-8-2: COMPLIANCE WARNING TICKETS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The issuance of compliance warning citations shall be as a courtesy in
lieu of instituting a prosecution in court for the alleged offense. If the
person accused of the violation does not settle the claim, a uniform traffic
complaint or notice to appear may be issued for that violation and otherwise
that person shall be subject to the general penalties set forth in section
1-4-1 of this Code or as State law otherwise provides. 2 (Ord. 2006-04, 2-22-
2006)
Â 
Notes
2 2. Schedule of fines and penalities, see section 7-4-13
CHAPTER 9
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND BOAT TRAILERS
SECTION:
7-9-1: Permit Required; Licensing; Ownership
7-9-2: Parking And Storage Requirements
7-9-3: Maintenance
7-9-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; LICENSING; OWNERSHIP:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No recreational vehicle or boat trailer may be parked or stored without
the prior issuance of a permit by the village.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The code enforcement officer shall issue a permit upon submission of a
completed and approved application and payment of the license fee as set forth
in section
7-2-3 of this title.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Required state license plates and village stickers shall be current and
properly displayed.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Property owners shall have and display upon request of a police
officer, the zoning administrator or the code enforcement officer proof of
ownership of, and a valid permit for, a stored or parked recreational vehicle
or boat trailer. (Ord. 2003-07, 11-3-2003)
7-9-2: PARKING AND STORAGE REQUIREMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Recreational vehicles and boat trailers may only be parked or stored on
single-family residential property. No recreational vehicles or boat trailers
may be parked or stored on commercial, industrial or multi-family residential
property. Only one recreational vehicle or one boat trailer may be stored on a
single property.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Recreational vehicle and boat trailer storage and parking shall be
permitted only when the vehicle or trailer is owned by a resident of the
village of Broadview or a Broadview property owner and then only upon premises
which said resident resides upon or upon premises owned by said recreational
vehicle or boat trailer owner. Storage of a recreational vehicle or a boat
trailer shall not constitute or be part of any business.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â A recreational vehicle or boat trailer may be parked in a driveway or
on a paved or concrete service on single-family residential property for thirty
(30) days or less, cumulative. Parking or storage of a recreational vehicle or
boat trailer for more than thirty (30) days shall only be permitted in an
enclosed garage, shed or permanent enclosed structure. No parking or storage of
a recreational vehicle or boat is allowed on grass, gravel, street or public
property.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Recreational vehicles shall not be used as a dwelling, storage or
accessory building. Additionally, parked or stored recreational vehicles or
boat trailers shall not be occupied or used for living, sleeping or
housekeeping purposes and shall not be connected to sewer, water or electrical
service.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â A recreational vehicle or boat trailer shall not be parked or stored
with flammable liquids aboard the trailer or boat in a portable container.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â No recreational vehicle or boat trailer parked or stored in the village
shall exceed:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Eleven feet (11') in height, as parked, including trailer, cradle or
mount, but excluding mast; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Thirty two feet (32') in length including trailer hitch, tongue and
bumpers.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â No recreational vehicle or boat trailer parked or stored in the village
shall be located:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Less than three feet (3') from any structure; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Less than three feet (3') from any lot line; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Within any required front yard.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Camping trailers and other foldable or collapsible recreational
vehicles shall be parked or stored in the same condition as when towed (i.e.,
folded down). (Ord. 2003-07, 11-3-2003)
7-9-3: MAINTENANCE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Recreational vehicles and boats shall be locked and secured from entry
while stored or parked hereunder. Exterior propane gas bottles or tanks on
recreational vehicles or boat trailers shall have the valve handles or controls
locked or removed during storage periods.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â A recreational vehicle or boat trailer shall be maintained in mobile
condition; no major construction or repair of such recreational vehicle or boat
trailer shall be permitted on residential property.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â It shall be a public nuisance and against the health, safety and
welfare of the village and the residents thereof for any person to park or
store a recreational vehicle or boat trailer in an unsanitary condition or in
an unsafe or dangerous condition, or in any manner, which endangers the health
or safety of any person. (Ord. 2003-07, 11-3-2003)
CHAPTER 10
UNSCHEDULED INTERCITY BUSES
SECTION:
7-10-1: Definitions
7-10-2: Applicability
7-10-3: Notice And Application Required
7-10-4: Processing And Approval Of Applications
7-10-5: Days And Hours Of Operation
7-10-6: Passenger Pick-Up/Drop-Off Locations
7-10-7: Punctuality
7-10-8: Proof Of Application And Approval
7-10-9: Towing And Impounding
7-10-10: Criminal Charges
7-10-11: Civil Remedies
7-10-12: Penalty
7-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
Â Â Â For the purposes of this chapter, these definitions shall apply.
Â 
                             A form that the Broadview Chief of Police makes
APPLICATION:                 available for receiving and reviewing proposed
                             intercity bus operations.
                             Written notice that the Chief of Police has
APPROVAL:                    received, reviewed, and determined that an
                             application satisfies the requirements of the
                             Village and the Policy.
CHIEF OF POLICE:             The Broadview Chief of Police.
                             That written policy which was promulgated by the
POLICY:                      Village Mayor as set forth in Executive Order
                             2023-01.
                             Intercity bus service that operates trips on a
                             predictable and recurring basis, following a
REGULARLY SCHEDULED SERVICE: schedule that is published in advance and
                             available to the general public, and provides
                             service in exchange for paying a fare.
                             Any bus used for the transportation of persons
                             between the Village of Broadview and locations
                             outside of the Chicago-Naperville-Joliet area that
UNSCHEDULED INTERCITY BUS:   is not operating pursuant to authorization of the
                             Chief of Police authorization via: (i) an approved
                             letter of permission; or (ii) an approved schedule
                             and/or approved pick-up/drop- off zone, as of the
                             effective date of the Policy.
VILLAGE:                     The Village of Broadview, Illinois.
Â 
(Ord. CO-2024-1, 1-16-2024; amd. Ord. CO-2024-2, 1-16-2024)
7-10-2: APPLICABILITY:
Â Â Â This chapter shall apply to any unscheduled intercity bus or unscheduled
intercity bus operator that attempts to discharge or pick-up passengers within
the limits of the Village without a valid permit issued by the Village as set
forth in the Policy.
(Ord. CO-2024-1, 1-16-2024; amd. Ord. CO-2024-2, 1-16-2024)
7-10-3: NOTICE AND APPLICATION REQUIRED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The operator of any unscheduled intercity bus must make application for
an approval to arrive and load/unload passengers in the Village on the
appropriate form made available by the Chief of Police. All applications for
unscheduled intercity bus service must be received by the Chief of Police a
minimum of five (5) full business days prior to the requested date of arrival
in the application.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â All applications shall include the proposed passenger list, and the
operator shall be required to perform background checks on each passengers over
the age of eighteen (18), and shall provide copies of the same to the Chief of
Police as part of the application.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Each application for an unscheduled intercity bus drop off must include
an order authorizing the drop off executed by the head of the public body
originating the transfer of such passengers.
(Ord. 2024-1, 1-16-2024)
7-10-4: PROCESSING AND APPROVAL OF APPLICATIONS:
Â Â Â Applications for unscheduled intercity buses will be reviewed on a first-
come, first-serve basis. No more than one (1) application, regardless of
operator, shall be approved by the Chief of Police for a given date, time, and
location.
(Ord. 2024-1, 1-16-2024)
7-10-5: DAYS AND HOURS OF OPERATION:
Â Â Â Unscheduled intercity buses shall load/unload passengers within the Village
only between the hours of ten oâ€™clock (10:00) A.M. and four oâ€™clock (4:00) P.M.
Monday through Friday, and not at any time on Saturdays, Sundays, or designated
Village Holidays.
(Ord. 2024-1, 1-16-2024)
7-10-6: PASSENGER PICK-UP/DROP-OFF LOCATIONS:
Â Â Â Unscheduled intercity buses shall only load/unload passengers at locations
designated by the Chief of Police, which shall be listed on the approved
application.
(Ord. 2024-1, 1-16-2024)
7-10-7: PUNCTUALITY:
Â Â Â For any given approval, unscheduled intercity buses must arrive no sooner
than, and no later than thirty (30) minutes after, the approved arrival time,
otherwise the application shall be considered invalidated. Any loading/
unloading of passengers outside of this scheduled window shall result in a
seven hundred fifty dollar ($750.00) fine per passenger to the operator.
(Ord. 2024-1, 1-16-2024)
7-10-8: PROOF OF APPLICATION AND APPROVAL:
Â Â Â Operators of unscheduled intercity buses must carry a physical or electronic
copy of an approved application and present it for inspection at the place of
loading/unloading upon request by any employee or designee of the Village.
(Ord. 2024-1, 1-16-2024)
7-10-9: TOWING AND IMPOUNDING:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â In addition to any fees or fines set forth in the Policy, any
unscheduled intercity bus used in violation of Executive Order 2023-01 and the
Policy set forth therein shall be subject to immediate seizure and
irnpoundment. The owner of record of said bus shall be liable for any and all
towing, storage and administrative fees associated with the towing and storage
of the bus. The owner of record shall also be subject to administrative
penalties in accordance with the Village Code.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Whenever a police officer with supervisory authority and who is present
at the time of an alleged violation of the Policy set forth in Executive Order
2023-01 has probable cause to believe that an intercity bus is subject to
seizure and impoundment pursuant to this chapter, the police officer shall
provide for the towing of the bus to an authorized towing facility.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Before or at the time the bus is towed, the police officer shall notify
any person identifying themselves as the owner of the bus at the time of the
alleged violation, or the person who is found to be in control of the bus at
the time of the alleged violation, if there is such a person, of the fact of
the seizure and of the bus owner's right to request a vehicle impoundment
hearing to be conducted under Title 7, Section
7-4-17 of the Village Code by serving such person with a copy of the citation.
(Ord. 2024-2, 1-16-2024)
7-10-10: CRIMINAL CHARGES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to pursue criminal charges
against any: (i) unscheduled intercity bus operator; (ii) unscheduled intercity
bus driver; or (iii) third-party employees who are charged with the oversight
of the passengers, when such individual attempts to or does discharge
passengers where such actions endanger the health, safety or welfare of
passengers.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The Chief of Police shall consider the following when determining
whether to pursue criminal charges:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The location of the discharge or attempted discharge of passengers;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Extreme weather conditions, including temperatures below freezing,
snowfall, severe rain, or other inclement weather which poses a risk to
passengers;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Whether any of the passengers are minors; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The time of day and access to shelter or transportation for
passengers.
(Ord. 2024-2, 1-16-2024)
7-10-11: CIVIL REMEDIES:
Â Â Â The Village's attorneys are hereby authorized and directed to pursue any and
all civil remedies against intercity bus operators that fail to or refuse to
comply with the Policy or this chapter. Such civil remedies include, but are
not limited to, injunctive relief, declaratory judgements, and debt collection
actions.
(Ord. 2024-2, 1-16-2024)
7-10-12: PENALTY:
Â Â Â Any operator of an unscheduled intercity bus that attempts to or does in
fact load/unload passengers without an approved application shall be subject to
a seven hundred and fifty dollar ($750.00) fine per passenger upon the
intercity bus operator.
(Ord. 2024-1, 1-16-2024)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
8-1-1: Director Of Public Works And Water
8-1-2: Department Of Public Works
8-1-3: Street Department
8-1-4: Water Department
8-1-1: DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS AND WATER 1 :
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Office Created, Appointment: There is hereby created the office of
Director of Public Works and Water, an executive office of the Village. Such
Director of Public Works and Water shall be appointed by the President and
Board of Trustees.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Powers And Duties:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Streets 2 : All public streets, alleys, sidewalks and other public
ways in the Village shall be under the supervision of the Director of Public
Works and Water. He shall have charge of and supervision over all work thereon,
and the cleaning thereof and he shall see to it that all gutters and drains
therein function properly and that the same are kept free from defects. He
shall be charged with the enforcement of all provisions of this Code and other
ordinance provisions relating to such public places, except traffic ordinances,
and he is hereby authorized to enforce all such provisions.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Sewers And Sewer System 3 :
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The Director of Public Works and Water shall be ex officio
Superintendent of Sewers, and shall see to the enforcement of all provisions of
this Code and other ordinances relating thereto, and shall supervise the repair
thereof where no provision to the contrary is made.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The Director of Public Works and Water shall have charge and
custody of sanitary and storm sewer systems of the Village and shall see to it
that the same are kept in good repair and that they function properly.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Lights: The Director of Public Works and Water shall supervise the
lighting of the public streets and alleys and shall keep the lighting system in
efficient operation and good repair.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Water Supply System 1 :
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The Director of Public Works and Water shall have care and
custody of the Municipal water supply system and all equipment, pipes and
machinery pertaining thereto. He shall be responsible for the care of all such
property and for the efficient management of said system.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The Director of Public Works and Water shall perform such duties
as may be prescribed for him by the Westchester- Broadview Water Commission.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Custodian Of Village Property: The Director of Public Works and
Water shall be the custodian of all property of the Village which is not
assigned to the care or custody of any other officer. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. Whenever in this Code, reference is made to Superintendent of Public
  Works, the title Director of Public Works and Water shall apply.
2 2. See Chapter 2 of this Title.
3 3. See Chapter 5 of this Title.
1 1. See Chapter 4 of this Title.
8-1-2: DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS:
All officers and employees assigned to the Department of Public Works shall
perform their duties subject to the orders and under the supervision of the
Director of Public Works and Water. (1987 Code)
8-1-3: STREET DEPARTMENT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Department Created, Composition: There is hereby created the Street
Department, an executive department of the Village. The Street Department shall
consist of the Director of Public Works and Water and such other officers and
employees as may be assigned thereto.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Duties: It shall be the function of the Street Department, and the duty
of each officer and employee assigned thereto, to see to it that the streets,
alleys and other public ways are kept in good repair and are cleaned at regular
intervals or so often as may be necessary.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Enforcement Duties: The Director of Public Works and Water and members
of the Street Department shall, and are hereby empowered to, enforce the
provisions of this Code and other ordinances relating to obstructing the
streets or other public ways or making excavations, unless specifically given
to some other officer or department for enforcement. (1987 Code)
8-1-4: WATER DEPARTMENT 1 :
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Department Created, Composition: There is hereby created the Water
Department, an executive department of the Village. The Water Department shall
consist of the Director of Public Works and Water who shall be the head of the
Department and such number of other officers and employees as may be assigned
thereto.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Powers And Duties: The Director of Public Works and Water shall be the
head of the Water Department and responsible for the efficient management
thereof. All officers and employees assigned to this Department shall perform
their duties subject to the control and supervision of said Director, and shall
obey all instructions and orders given by him.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Enforcement Of Code Provisions By Department: The Director of Public
Works and Water, and all officers and employees in the Water Department, shall
be charged with and see to the enforcement of all provisions of this Code and
other ordinances relating to the water supply system where no provision to the
contrary is made. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. Whenever, in this Code, reference is made to Superintendent of Water, the
  title Director of Public Works and Water shall apply.
CHAPTER 2
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS 1
SECTION:
8-2-1: Construction Requirements
8-2-2: Repairs And Defects
8-2-3: Approaches, Driveways And Parking Areas
8-2-4: Curb Cuts
8-2-5: Excavations
8-2-6: Barricades
8-2-7: Openings In Streets And Sidewalks
8-2-8: Deposits On Public Ways
8-2-9: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
8-2-10: Discharge Into Storm Sewers Or Drainage Facilities
Â 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 9 of this title.
8-2-1: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to construct or lay a pavement on
any public way without first having secured a permit therefor. Applications for
such permits shall be made to the Village Building Department and shall conform
to the provisions of title 3, chapter 1 of this code relating to applications
for licenses and permits. Each application shall state the location of the
intended pavement, the extent thereof, and the person who is to do the actual
construction work.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Approval Of Pavement Specifications Required: It shall be unlawful to
construct or lay any street or sidewalk pavement in the village unless the
specifications for such pavement have been first specifically approved by the
Public Works Director or his assignee.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Village Exempt From Provisions: The provisions of this chapter
pertaining to the construction of pavements or sidewalks shall not apply to
work done by the municipality or any agency thereof. (1987 Code; amd. Ord. CO-
2023-15, 5-15-2023)
Â 
8-2-2: REPAIRS AND DEFECTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Pavements To Be In Good Repair, Supervision: All public street, alley
and sidewalk pavements shall be kept in good repair. Such repair work, whether
done by the village or by the abutting owner, in case of sidewalks, shall be
done under the supervision of the director of public works and water.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Defects Reported: It shall be the duty of any village employee or
officer becoming cognizant of any defect in any street, alley or sidewalk, or
any obstruction thereof, to report the same to the director of public works and
water as soon as possible.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Deposit Required; Restoration: Any person to whom a building permit is
issued shall make a deposit of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) for each
permit that is issued for property on which building operations are to be
carried on, to ensure the maintenance of the streets in a safe condition and to
ensure its complete restoration after the completion of the building. Whenever
any pavement, curb, parkway, sidewalk or other public structure thereof is
broken, the same shall be restored at the expense of the party who obtained the
permit to a condition as good and as serviceable as prior to the beginning of
the work. The village shall have the privilege and election of restoring, or of
contracting out the work of restoring, the street, curb, parkway or sidewalk to
its prior condition. Upon the restoration as hereinbefore mentioned, so much of
the deposit as shall have been expended by the village for the restoration
shall be retained by the village and the remainder of the deposit, if any,
shall then be returned to the applicant of the building permit; provided,
however, that nothing herein contained shall preclude the village from
maintaining an action against the person to recover the damage done to any
pavement, curb, parkway, sidewalk or other public structure. (1987 Code; amd.
Ord. CO-2023-15, 5-15-2023)
8-2-3: APPROACHES, DRIVEWAYS AND PARKING AREAS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Permit Required, Fee: No person shall construct an approach, driveway,
parking space or parking lot without first obtaining a permit therefor and
paying a fee therefor to the Building Department.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Construction Standards:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â All approaches, driveways, parking spaces and parking lots shall be
constructed in accordance with the specifications provided by the Public Works
Director or his assignee and maintained on file in the office of the building
department and shall also conform to the following general conditions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Surface shall be concrete, blacktop or equivalent impervious
material as approved by the Village.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Driveway approaches shall have a minimum width of ten feet (10')
flared to fourteen feet (14') at the curb.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â On single-family zoned property only, one driveway shall be
constructed and this driveway shall not exceed twenty four feet (24') in width.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â On single-family zoned property, the driveway shall extend to the
garage apron or to the rear of the house if there is no garage and no alley.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Driveways that cross a public sidewalk shall conform to the sidewalk
grade. That part of a public sidewalk which is also part of a driveway shall be
constructed of concrete with a thickness of not less than six inches (6") and a
troweled and brushed surface.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful to cover up any public sidewalk with asphalt or
any other material without first receiving permission from the Director of
Public Works and Water or his authorized representative. (1987 Code; amd. Ord.
CO-2023-15, 5-15-2023)
8-2-4: CURB CUTS:
No curb shall be broken or opened for any purpose without first procuring a
permit and paying a fee therefor to the Building Department of five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00). (1987 Code; amd. Ord. CO-2023-15, 5-15-2023)
8-2-5: EXCAVATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to make any excavation on any
public street or alley without first having secured a permit therefor. All the
provisions of subsection
8-2-1A of this Chapter relating to the construction or laying of pavement shall
apply hereto.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Bonds Required:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Applications for the permit required by subsection A of this Section
shall be accompanied by a bond conditioned to indemnify the Village for any
loss or damage resulting from the work undertaken or the manner of doing the
same. Such bond shall be in the sum as provided in Section
3-1-6 of this Code with sureties to be approved by the Building Department.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain any opening of any
kind in any public sidewalk unless such person shall file with the Building
Department a bond in the sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), conditioned
to indemnify the Village for any loss, damage or liability resulting from the
existence or use of such opening. (1987 Code; amd. Ord. CO-2023-15, 5-15-2023)
8-2-6: BARRICADES:
Any person laying or repairing any pavement on a street, sidewalk or other
public place, or making an excavation in such place, or placing dumpster,
trailers, temporary storage units/pods shall maintain suitable barricades to
prevent injury to any person by reason of the work, and shall have the
barricades lighted at night. (1987 Code; amd. Ord. CO-2023-15, 5-15-2023)
8-2-7: OPENINGS IN STREETS AND SIDEWALKS:
All openings maintained in any public sidewalk or parkway shall be kept
securely covered at all times when not opened for use. (1987 Code)
8-2-8: DEPOSITS ON PUBLIC WAYS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Building Supplies And Trash: It shall be unlawful for any person to
deposit on any street any material, and this includes, but it is not limited
to, sand, bricks, mortar or any other building materials which may be harmful
to the pavement thereof, or any waste material or any leaves, waste and other
material which are to be burned which may cause injury to the street.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Snow From Parking Lots: Every owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or other
person having charge of any parking lot for an apartment building, commercial
building or industrial building, in removing snow from such parking lot, shall
not deposit such snow on any public way of the Village.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Missiles, Debris: It shall be unlawful to cast, throw or propel any
missile on any street, alley or public place, and it shall be unlawful to throw
or deposit any glass, nails, tacks or other similar articles on any street,
sidewalk or alley in the Village. (1987 Code)
8-2-9: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Injury To Pavements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful to walk upon, drive any vehicle or animal upon
or injure any newly laid street or sidewalk pavement while the same is guarded
by a warning sign or barricade.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or to do any injury to
any sidewalk, street or alley in the Village, in any manner except as provided
in this Chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â No person shall carelessly, negligently, maliciously or wilfully
injure, destroy or deface any sidewalk, lamp, lamppost, street sign, or other
property of the Village.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Obstructions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct in any manner any
street, alley or sidewalk. The Chief of Police and/or Director of Public Works
or assignee is authorized to remove or cause the removal of any obstruction in
any such place.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â No person shall congregate in a group on any corner or in front of
any store in the Village in such manner as to congest the sidewalk or corner
thus obstructing the free passage of passersby.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Encroachments: It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any building
or structure which encroaches on any public street or property.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Public Ways For Displays Or Sale Of Goods: It shall be unlawful for any
person to use any street, sidewalk or other public place as a place for the
display or sale of goods or merchandise of any kind.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Permitting Dangerous Conditions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Placing Movables On Outside Windowsills: It shall be unlawful to
place any movable article on any window or ledge, or other place abutting on a
public street, alley or other public place and at a height above four feet (4')
from the ground, in such a manner that the same can or is in danger of falling
onto such street, sidewalk or other public place.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Scaffolds, Ladders, Tools: Any scaffolds or ladders placed in such a
position that they overhang or can fall onto any public street, alley or other
public way in the Village shall be firmly and properly constructed and
safeguarded, and it shall be unlawful to place or leave any tools or articles
on any such place in such a manner that the same can fall onto such street,
sidewalk, or other public way from a greater height than four feet (4').
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Marking Public Ways With Addresses: Only Village employees shall mark
curbs, sidewalks or roadways with numbers signifying addresses in the Village.
Any person violating this subsection shall be punished by a fine of up to seven
hundred and fifty dollars ($750.00), and a violation of this subsection shall
constitute a separate offense for each time such a violation occurs.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Placing Boards In Gutters: No person shall place boards in any gutter
in the Village in order to make a crossover from the street onto any curb or
sidewalk.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Playing Games On Streets: It shall be unlawful to play any games on any
street, sidewalk or other public place in the Village. Unless permitted by the
safety committee. (1987 Code; amd. Ord. CO-2023-15, 5-15-2023)
8-2-10: DISCHARGE INTO STORM SEWERS OR DRAINAGE FACILITIES:
No person, firm, corporation or other entity shall discharge any sanitary waste
or industrial waste into any storm sewer or drainage facility. (Ord. 92-17, 6-
15-1992; amd. Ord. 92-25, 9-8-1992; Ord. 98-10, 5-18-1998; Ord. 2001-13, 5-8-
2001; Ord. CO-2023-15, 5-15-2023)
CHAPTER 3
TREES AND SHRUBS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Purpose
8-3-2: Administration
8-3-3: Permit Requirements
8-3-4: Planting Requirements
8-3-5: Public Tree Care
8-3-6: Pruning; Corner Clearance
8-3-7: Dead Or Diseased Tree Removal On Private Property
8-3-8: Prohibited Acts
8-3-9: Interference With Village
8-3-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter provides full power and authority over all trees, plants and
shrubs located within street rights of way and public places of the village;
and over all trees, plants and shrubs located on private property that
constitute a hazard or threat as described herein. (Ord. 2001-019, 8-20-2001;
amd. Ord. CO-2023-15, 5-15-2023)
8-3-2: ADMINISTRATION:
The director of public works or assignee shall be in charge of administering
the provisions of this chapter. It shall be the responsibility of the director
of public works or assignee to monitor the care, preservation, pruning,
planting, replanting, removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in all public
areas. The director of public works or assignee, when requested by the village
board of trustees, shall consider, investigate, report and recommend upon any
special matter of question coming within the scope of this chapter. (Ord. 2001-
019, 8-20-2001; amd. Ord. CO-2023-15, 5-15-2023)
8-3-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
No person shall plant, remove, cut above the ground, or disturb any tree on any
street or other public place without first filing an application and procuring
a permit from the director of public works. (Ord. 2001-019, 8-20-2001; amd.
Ord. CO-2023-15, 5-15-2023)
8-3-4: PLANTING REQUIREMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Street Tree Species To Be Planted: The following list constitutes the
official street tree species for the village of Broadview, Illinois. No species
other than those included in this list may be planted as street trees without
permission of the director of public works:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Large Trees:
Ginkgo
Hackberry
Locust
Red oak
Scarlet maple
Scarlet oak
Shingle oak
Sugar maple
Swamp white oak
Sweet gum
Tulip tree
White linden
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Small Trees:
Grey birch
Hornbean
Ironwood
Pear
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Spacing: The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the
tree species size classes in subsection A of this section, and no trees may be
planted closer than the following: small trees, thirty feet (30'); and large
trees, forty five feet (45'); except in special plantings designed or approved
by a landscape architect.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Distance From Curb And Sidewalk: The distance that trees may be planted
from curbs or curb lines and sidewalks will be in accordance with the tree
species size classes listed in subsection A of this section, and no trees may
be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than the following: small trees, two
feet (2'); and large trees, four feet (4').
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Distance From Street Corners And Fireplugs: No street tree shall be
planted closer than thirty five feet (35') of any street corner, measured from
the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curb lines. No street trees shall be
planted closer than ten feet (10') of any fireplug.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Utilities: No street trees other than those species listed as small
trees in subsection A of this section may be planted under or within ten (10)
lateral feet of any overhead utility wire, or over or within five (5) lateral
feet of any underground water line, sewer line, transmission line or other
utility.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Poles And Wires: Any person given the right to maintain poles and
wires in the streets, alleys or other public places in the municipality shall,
in the absence of provision in the franchise concerning the subject, keep the
wires and poles free from and away from any trees or shrubs in such places so
far as may be possible and shall keep all such trees and shrubs properly
trimmed, subject to the supervision of the director of public works or his
designee, so that no injury shall be done either to the poles or wires or the
shrubs and trees by their contact.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Gas Pipes: Any person maintaining any gas pipes in the municipality
shall, in the absence of provision in the franchise concerning the subject,
keep such pipes free from leaks so that no injury shall be done to any trees or
shrubs.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Excavations: In making excavations in streets or other public places,
proper care shall be taken to avoid injury to the roots of any tree or shrub,
wherever possible. (1987 Code; amd. Ord. 2001-019, 8-20-2001; Ord. CO-2023-15,
5-15-2023)
8-3-5: PUBLIC TREE CARE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Planting: The village shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain
and remove trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys,
avenues, lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure
public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public
grounds.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Removal:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Unsafe, Injurious Trees: The Director of Public Works may remove or
cause or order to be removed, any tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe
condition or which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers, electric
power lines, gas lines, water lines, or other public improvements, or is
affected with any injurious fungus, insect or other pest.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Removal Of Stumps: All stumps of street and park trees shall be
removed below the surface of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not
project above the surface of the ground. (Ord. 2001-019, 8-20-2001; amd. Ord.
CO-2023-15, 5-15-2023)
8-3-6: PRUNING; CORNER CLEARANCE:
Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right of way within the
village shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the
light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and
so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet (8') above the surface of
the street or sidewalk. Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased or
dangerous trees, or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the
safety of the public. The village shall have the right to prune any tree or
shrub on private property when it interferes with the proper spread of light
along the street from a streetlight or interferes with visibility of any
traffic-control device sign, or operation of any village equipment. (Ord. 2001-
019, 8-20-2001; amd. Ord. CO-2023-15, 5-15-2023)
8-3-7: DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
The Director of Public Works or assignee has the authority to enter onto
private property whereon there is located a tree, shrub, plant or plant part
that is suspected to have an infectious disease or insect problem; is dead or
dying; has limb(s) that obstruct streetlight, traffic signs, the free passage
of pedestrians or vehicles; or otherwise poses a threat to safety. The Director
of Public Works or assignee shall have the right to cause the removal of any
dead or diseased trees on private property within the village, when such trees
constitute a hazard to life and property, or harbor insects or disease which
constitute a potential threat to other trees within the village. The director
of public works will notify in writing the owners of such trees. Removal shall
be done by said owners at their own expense within sixty (60) days after the
date of service of notice. In the event of failure of owners to comply with
such provisions, the village may have the authority to remove such trees and
charge the cost of removal to the owners of the property. (Ord. 2001-019, 8-20-
2001; amd. Ord. CO-2023-15, 5-15-2023)
8-3-8: PROHIBITED ACTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Injury To Trees And Shrubs: It shall be unlawful to injure any tree or
shrub planted in any public place.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Attaching Signs And Advertisements: It shall be unlawful to attach any
sign, advertisement or notice to any tree, shrub or post in any street, parkway
or other public place.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Attaching Wires And Ropes: It shall be unlawful to attach any wire or
rope to any tree or shrub in any public street, parkway or other public place
without the permission of the village.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Landscaping Parkways: It shall be unlawful to plant shrubs or put any
ornamental objects such as rocks, railroad ties, flower boxes, wagon wheels or
to box in trees with additional dirt buildup on or in any public property.
Anyone having such objects on their parkway must remove them within thirty (30)
days of notification or the village will remove the objects at the property
owner's expense. The village is not responsible for personal injury caused by
foreign objects placed or planted by property owners on public parkways. (1987
Code; amd. Ord. 2001-019, 8-20-2001)
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Tree Topping: It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person,
firm, or village department to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on
public property. "Topping" is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs or
stubs larger than three inches (3") in diameter within the tree's crown to such
a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees
severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility
wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may
be exempted from this subsection at the determination of the director of public
works. (Ord. 2001-019, 8-20-2001)
8-3-9: INTERFERENCE WITH VILLAGE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
village, or any of its agents, while engaging in and about the planting,
cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying, or removing of any street trees, park
trees, or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this chapter. (Ord. 2001-
019, 8-20-2001)
ARTICLE A. DUTCH ELM DISEASE
SECTION:
8-3A-1: Nuisances Declared
8-3A-2: Owner To Remove And Destroy Infected Trees
8-3A-3: Inspection Of Suspected Trees
8-3A-4: Notice To Owner
8-3A-5: Removal By Village, Costs Charged To Owner
8-3A-6: Infected Trees On Public Property
8-3A-1: NUISANCES DECLARED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Infected Trees: All species and varieties of elm trees (trees of genus
Ulmus) infected with the fungus known as the Dutch elm disease (Certostomella
Ulmi) as determined by laboratory analysis by the Village Forestry Department
are hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Dead Trees: All species and varieties of elm trees that are dead or
substantially dead and all dead elmwood to which the bark is still attached
which, because of their condition, may serve as a breeding place for the
European elm bark beetle (Scolytus Multistriatus), are hereby declared to be a
public nuisance. (1987 Code)
8-3A-2: OWNER TO REMOVE AND DESTROY INFECTED TREES:
It shall be unlawful for any owner of any lot or land in the Village to permit
or maintain on any such lot or land, any elm tree or dead elmwood which, as
provided in Section
8-3A-1 of this Article, is a public nuisance, and it shall be the duty of any
such owner promptly to remove and burn any such elm tree or dead elmwood under
the supervision and direction of the Village Forester or his duly authorized
representative. (1987 Code)
8-3A-3: INSPECTION OF SUSPECTED TREES:
In order to carry out the purposes of this Article and to implement this
enforcement thereof, the Village Forester or his duly authorized
representative, is hereby authorized and empowered to enter upon any lot or
land in the Village at all reasonable hours for the purpose of inspecting any
elm trees or dead elmwood situated thereon, and said Village Forester or his
duly authorized representative may remove such specimens from any tree as are
required for the purposes of the laboratory analysis referred to in Section
8-3A-1 of this Article or to determine whether such tree, because it is dead or
substantially dead, may serve as a breeding place for the European elm bark
beetle.
It shall be unlawful for any person to take any action to prevent the Village
Forester or his duly authorized representative from entering on any lot or land
in the Village for the purpose of such inspection, or to interfere with said
Forester or such representative in the performance of any of his duties
provided for under the provisions of this Article. (1987 Code)
8-3A-4: NOTICE TO OWNER:
If, on laboratory analysis of specimens removed from any elm tree by the
Village Forester, it is determined that such tree is a public nuisance, or that
any dead or substantially dead elm trees or dead elmwood is a public nuisance
as provided herein, the Village Forester shall serve or cause to be served upon
the person that is owner of the lot or land on which such tree or dead elmwood
is located, a written notice requiring such owner to comply with the provisions
of this Article. Service of notice provided for herein shall be by personal
service if the owner of the lot or land on which an infected elm tree, as
aforesaid, is located is a resident of the Village. If such owner cannot be
found in the Village, or is a nonresident of the Village, written notice shall
be served by registered mail, addressed to owner at his last known address and
by publication at least one time in a newspaper of general circulation in the
Village. (1987 Code)
8-3A-5: REMOVAL BY VILLAGE, COSTS CHARGED TO OWNER:
If the person upon whom notice is served, fails, neglects or refuses to remove
and destroy by burning such elm tree or dead elmwood within thirty (30) days
after service of such notice, the Village Forester or his duly authorized
representative may proceed to remove and burn such tree or dead elmwood and
assess the cost thereof against the owner of such lot or land, and the amount
of such cost shall be paid by such owner to the Village.
If the Village removes from any lot or land in the Village any infected elm
tree or any dead or substantially dead elm tree or dead elmwood which is a
public nuisance as provided herein, the assessment of the cost of the work done
by the Village against the owner of the lot or land involved shall be in
addition to the penalties imposed herein for any violation or noncompliance
with any provision of this Article.
Pursuant to State law, where the owner of property refuses or neglects to
remove any diseased Dutch elm tree, the Village may collect from the property
owner the reasonable cost thereof if and when the Village removes such diseased
or infected elm tree. The cost for such removal shall be a lien upon the real
estate affected, provided that notice has been given as described and set forth
in the State law 1 . (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-20-12.
8-3A-6: INFECTED TREES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
Any elm tree or dead elmwood on property owned by the Village which is a public
nuisance as provided herein shall promptly be removed and burned under the
supervision of the Village Forester or his representative at the expense of the
Village. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 4
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-4-1: Water Use
8-4-2: Service Connections
8-4-2-1: Cross-Connection Control
8-4-3: Construction Regulations
8-4-3-1: Service Pipes
8-4-3-2: Shutoff Boxes And Valve Basins
8-4-3-3: Stopcocks
8-4-3-4: Repairs
8-4-3-5: Excavations And Restorations
8-4-3-6: Responsibility Of Village
8-4-3-7: Nonliability Of Village
8-4-4: Water Meters
8-4-4-1: Installation Regulations
8-4-4-2: Meter Maintenance; Inspections, Tests, Fees
8-4-4-3: Change Of Location
8-4-4-4: Reading Meters And Meter Classification
8-4-5: Water And Sewer Rates
8-4-6: Water Bills
8-4-7: Lawn Sprinkler Systems
8-4-8: Water Conservation
8-4-9: Prohibited Acts
8-4-10: Violations; Penalty
8-4-1: WATER USE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Turning On Water: No water from the municipal water supply system shall
be turned on for service into any premises by anyone other than the Director of
Public Works or some person authorized by him or her to do so.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Water Service, Application: Applications to have water turned on shall
be made in writing to the Village and shall contain an agreement by the
applicant to abide by and accept all of the provisions of this chapter as
conditions governing his use of the Village water supply. All such
applications, when properly made shall be filed by the Village.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Building Construction, Fee: During the construction of any building and
before any water meter is installed as provided by this chapter, the contractor
so constructing such building may be permitted to use the municipal water
supply by previously making application therefor to the Village and paying a
fee of six hundred dollars ($600.00) for the use of a water hydrant meter. The
manner of the use of the water by the contractor shall be determined by and
meet with the approval of the Director of Public Works. (1987 Code; amd. Ord.
2019-27, 11-18-2019; Ord. CO-2023-15, 5-15-2023)
8-4-2: SERVICE CONNECTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â General Requirements: No connection with a water main shall be made
without a permit being issued and twenty four (24) hours' notice having been
given to the Building Commissioner. All such connections shall be made under
the supervision of the Director of Public Works, and no connection shall be
covered until the work has been inspected by the Public Works Director or
designee or some person authorized to make such inspection by him or her.
Applications for permission to make such a connection shall be made to the
Building Commissioner and shall state the premises for which the service is
desired, the size of the pipe proposed to be used and such other matters as may
be required by the Director of Public Works.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Fees: The fee for any and all water main taps is:
Â 
Water Tap Â 
1" - 2"   $2,350
2" - 6"   $4,250
6" - 8"   $8,650
Â 
Â 
Sewer Tap Â 
4" - 6"   $3,675
Â 
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Plumbing: No water shall be turned on for service in premises in which
the plumbing does not comply with the provisions of this code; provided, that
water may be turned on for construction work in unfinished buildings, subject
to the provisions of this chapter.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Abandoned Service: If any new water service is to be put in where an
existing service is to be abandoned, the old service must be capped and shut
off at the water main's corporation cock. (1987 Code; amd. Ord. 2019-27, 11-18-
2019; Ord. CO-2023-15, 5-15-2023)
8-4-2-1: CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Application: These rules and regulations shall apply to all premises
served by the public potable water supply system of the Village.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Definitions: The following definitions shall apply in the
interpretation and enforcement of these regulations:
AGENCY:        Illinois Environmental Protection Agency (the "IEPA").
               Backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the Research Foundation For
APPROVED       Cross-Connection Control of the University Of Southern California, Association Of
BACKFLOW       State Sanitary Engineers, http://www.usc.edu/dept/fccchr/, American Water Works
PREVENTION     Association, www.awwa.org, American National Standards Institute, www.ansi.org,
DEVICES:       or certified by the National Sanitation Foundation, www.nsf.org, or listed in the
               Illinois plumbing code or any other codes adopted by the Village.
               Any water source or system on or available to the premises other than the public
               water supply system and includes the water supplied by the system. These
AUXILIARY      auxiliary waters may include water from another purveyor's public water supply
WATER SYSTEM:  system; or water from a source such as wells, lakes, or streams, or process
               fluids; or used water. These waters may be polluted or contaminated or
               objectionable or constitute a water source or system over which the water
               purveyor does not have control.
               The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances into the distribution
BACKFLOW:      pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the intended source of
               the potable water supply.
BACKFLOW       Any device, method, or type of construction intended to prevent backflow into a
PREVENTION     potable water system. All devices used for backflow prevention in Illinois must
DEVICE:        meet the standards of the Illinois plumbing code, the American Society of
               Sanitary Engineering ("ASSE"), and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
CONTAMINATION: An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any substance to a
               degree which could create a health hazard.
               Any physical connection or arrangement between two (2) otherwise separate piping
CROSS-         systems, one of which contains potable water and the other a substance of unknown
CONNECTION:    or questionable safety or quality, whereby there may be a flow from one system
               into the other.
CROSS-
CONNECTION     The installation of a backflow prevention device at the service connection to a
CONTROL BY     premises to protect the water main.
CONTAINMENT:
CROSS-
CONNECTION     The installation of a backflow prevention device at each cross-connection in a
CONTROL BY     premises to protect both the premises and water main.
ISOLATION:
               A plumber who holds an Illinois plumbing license and who has been certified by
               the IEPA, or any other required agencies, to inspect, test, maintain and repair
               cross-connection control devices. Such certification attests to an inspector's
               understanding of the principles of backflow and back siphonage, and the public
               health hazard presented by the improper installation of cross-connection control
               devices. A CCCDI who works in the Village must on a yearly basis be registered in
CROSS-         the Village and must submit and have on file with the Village their current
CONNECTION     agency approval number and Illinois plumbing license for the time period when
CONTROL DEVICE they are operating in the Village.
INSPECTOR      Any contractor performing cross-control device inspection services shall provide
(CCCDI):       the following information and/or documentation:
               Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A copy of the plumber license for each plumber performing cross-
               connection inspections.
               Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A copy of the contractor's current plumbing contractor's license.
               Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A copy of the current CCCDI license for each inspector.
               Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â A copy of the contractor's annual certification and calibration for each
               test kit.
CUSTOMER:      The owner, official custodian, tenant, or person in control of any premises
               supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
CUSTOMER'S     Any water system located on the customer's premises. A building plumbing system
WATER SYSTEM:  is considered to be a customer's water system.
DIRECT CROSS-  A cross-connection formed when a water system is physically joined to a source of
CONNECTION:    unknown or unsafe substance.
DOUBLE CHECK   An assembly composed of single, independently acting check valves approved under
VALVE          American Society of Safety Engineers ("ASSE") standard 1015. A double check valve
ASSEMBLY:      assembly must include tight shutoff valves located at each end of the assembly
               and suitable connections for testing the water-tightness of each check valve.
FIXED PROPER   The unobstructed vertical distance through the free atmosphere between the water
AIR GAP:       discharge point and the flood level rim of the receptacle.
               Any condition, device or practice in a water system or its operation resulting
               from a real or potential danger to the health and well-being of customers. The
HEALTH HAZARD: phrase "high hazard" as used to qualify "health hazard" means a hazard to the
               health of the user that could be expected to result in death or significant
               reduction in the quality of life.
INDIRECT       A cross-connection through which an unknown substance can be forced, drawn by
CROSS-         vacuum or otherwise introduced into a safe potable water system.
CONNECTION:
               A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all materials,
INSPECTION:    fixtures, piping and appurtenances, appliances and installations of a plumbing
               system for compliance with requirements of the Illinois plumbing code.
INSPECTOR:     A fully licensed plumber who is a certified cross-connection control device
               inspector ("CCCDI").
NON-POTABLE    Water not safe for drinking, personal, or culinary use as determined by the
WATER:         requirements of part 65 of title 35 of the Illinois Administrative Code, or any
               other applicable provisions of state, federal or local law.
               The actual physical survey of the premises performed by any party contracted or
PHYSICAL       otherwise retained or hired by the Village or the Public Works Department's
SURVEY:        designee to confirm the results of the written survey described below and to
               obtain information for the public records which will help maintain a system to
               protect the public water supply.
               The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or extension of a
               plumbing system by any person. Plumbing includes all piping, fixtures,
               appurtenances and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes from the
               source of a private water supply on the premises or from the main in the street,
               alley or at the curb to, within and about any building or buildings where a
PLUMBING:      person or persons live, work or assemble. Plumbing includes all piping, from
               discharge of pumping units to and including pressure tanks in water supply
               systems. Plumbing includes all piping, fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances
               for a building drain and a sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of
               any building or buildings where a person or persons live, work or assemble from
               the point of connection of such building drain to the building sewer or private
               sewage disposal system five feet (5') beyond the foundation walls.
               The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic, radiological, or
POLLUTION:     biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as to constitute a
               hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
               Water which meets the requirements for water being used for drinking, culinary,
POTABLE WATER: and domestic purposes as set forth in part 65 of title 35 of the Illinois
               Administrative Code, or any other applicable provisions of state, federal or
               local law.
POTENTIAL      A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose connection, tapered spout, or other
CROSS-         connection which would facilitate extension of the water supply line beyond its
CONNECTION:    legal termination point.
               The property location in which the customer's building plumbing system or water
PREMISES:      system is located and any property which is in any manner connected to a public
               water system.
               Any fluid or solution which may be chemically, biologically or otherwise
               contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration such as would constitute a
               health, pollution, or system hazard if introduced into the public or a customer's
               potable water system. This includes, but is not limited to:
               1.Â Â Â Polluted or contaminated waters;
               2.Â Â Â Process waters;
PROCESS FLUID  3.Â Â Â Used waters originating from the public water supply system which may have
(S):           deteriorated in sanitary quality;
               4.Â Â Â Cooling waters;
               5.Â Â Â Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells, lakes,
               streams, or irrigation systems;
               6.Â Â Â Chemicals in solution or suspension;
               7.Â Â Â Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids used in
               industrial or other processes, or for firefighting purposes.
               All mains, pipes and structures through which water is obtained and distributed
               to the public, including wells and well structures, intakes and cribs, pumping
               stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage tanks and appurtenances,
PUBLIC WATER   collectively or severally, actually used or intended for use for the purpose of
SUPPLY:        furnishing water for drinking or general domestic use and which serve at least
               fifteen (15) service connections or which regularly serve at least twenty five
               (25) persons at least sixty (60) days per year. A public water supply is either a
               "community water supply" or a "noncommunity water supply".
               The department in charge of the Village public works which, among other things,
               supervises varied activities associated with obtaining, treating and distributing
PUBLIC WORKS   water to Village residents, businesses, industries and other users and directs
DEPARTMENT:    the operation, maintenance and repair of pump stations, reservoirs, transmission
               lines and other equipment associated with the Village public water supply and/or
               distribution system.
               A device containing a minimum of two (2) independently acting check valves
               together with an automatically operated pressure differential relief valve
REDUCED        located between the two (2) check valves and approved under ASSE standard 1013.
PRESSURE       During normal flow and at the cessation of normal flow, the pressure between
PRINCIPLE      these two (2) checks shall be less than the supply pressure. In case of leakage
BACKFLOW       of either check valve, the differential relief valve, by discharging to the
PREVENTION     atmosphere, shall operate to maintain the pressure between the check valves at
DEVICE:        less than the supply pressure. The unit must include tightly closing shutoff
               valves located at each end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with
               properly located test cocks.
SCHEDULE OF    The fines and fees applicable to this section as referenced in the text of this
FINES AND      section and set forth in exhibit A attached to Ordinance 2019-27, which may be
FEES:          amended from time to time at the sole discretion of the Village of Broadview
               corporate authorities ("schedule of fines and fees").
SECONDARY      Any other water system or cross control device and which is designed for cross-
CROSS-         connection control by isolation and which is not a primary, domestic or primary
CONNECTION     sprinkler cross-connection control device and which is part of the customer's
DEVICE:        water system.
SERVICE        The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances, at the water main through
CONNECTION:    which water is supplied to the user.
               A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or degrading material
SYSTEM HAZARD: not dangerous to health may enter the public water supply system or a customer's
               potable water system.
               Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a customer's water system
USED WATER:    after it has passed through the service connection and is no longer under the
               control of the Village water supply.
WATER          The owner or official custodian of a public water system.
PURVEYOR:
               The written document sent to each industrial, commercial and residential customer
               by the Public Works Department for the purpose of collecting information
               pertaining to the customer's piping system regarding the location of all
               connections to the public water supply system and the existence of plumbing
               fixtures. The customer is required to complete, execute and forward the response
               to the written survey to the Public Works Department. The written survey will
WRITTEN        request information which requests responses regarding the location, type and
SURVEY:        most recent inspection and testing date of all cross-connection control devices
               and methods located within that customer's piping system. The written survey must
               be in written form and should not be an actual plumbing inspection. The Village
               is conducting the written survey to obtain accurate contact information for each
               customer and to create up to date records regarding all cross-connections within
               the Village. If the written survey is not completed by the customer, such survey
               shall be completed by the Public Works Department's designee at the time of the
               physical survey.
Â 
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Purpose: The purpose of the cross-connection control program is to:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer's water system, contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the water
supply system.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Promote the elimination or control of existing cross-connections,
actual or potential between the public or customer's potable water system and
non-potable water systems, plumbing fixtures and sources of systems containing
substances of unknown or questionable safety.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer's potable water systems.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Policy: The customer of the premises shall be responsible for
protection of the public water supply system from contamination due to backflow
or back siphonage of contaminants through the customer's water service
connection. If the Public Works Department or any party contracted or otherwise
retained or hired by the Village determines that an approved backflow
prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water supply
system, the Public Works Department shall give notice to the customer to
install such approved backflow prevention device at each service connection to
the premises. The customer shall immediately install such approved device or
devices at the customer's own expense in a location and in a manner in
accordance with the Village ordinance and all applicable regulations and shall
have inspections and tests made of such approved device upon installation and
as required by the Village ordinance. The failure, refusal or inability on the
part of the customer to install such device or devices immediately shall
constitute grounds for discontinuing water service to the premises until such
device or devices have been installed. The customer shall retain records of
installation, maintenance, testing and repair as required herein for a period
of at least five (5) years. The Public Works Department may require the
customer to submit a cross-connection inspection report to the Village to
assist in determining whether or not service line protection will be required.
All cross-connection inspections shall be conducted by the Public Works
Department or performed by any party contracted or otherwise retained or hired
by the Village.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Cross-Connection Prohibited: Connections between potable water systems
and other systems or equipment containing water or other substances of unknown
or questionable quality are prohibited except when and where approved cross-
connection control devices or methods are installed, tested and maintained to
ensure proper operation on a continuing basis. No physical connection shall be
permitted between the potable portion of a supply and any other water supply
not of equal or better bacteriological and chemical quality as determined by
inspection and analysis by the agency. There shall be no arrangement or
connection by which an unsafe substance may enter a public water supply or
water supply for the premises.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Backflow Prevention Device Required: All plumbing installed within the
Village shall be installed in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code. If in
accordance with the Illinois plumbing code or by the determination of the
Public Works Department or any party contracted or otherwise retained or hired
by the Village, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the
safety of the public water supply system, the Public Works Department will give
notice to the water customer to have such an approved device installed
immediately. The type of device protection required shall depend on the degree
of hazard which exists and shall be at the discretion of the Public Works
Department. The water customer shall, at the water customer's own expense,
install such approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance with
the Illinois plumbing code and all applicable Village municipal ordinance
provisions including permits for said work, and shall have inspections and
tests made of such approved devices upon installation and as required by the
Illinois plumbing code and provisions as stated herein.
In the event that there is any addition or alteration to an automatic or fire
sprinkler system or the installation of a backflow device onto a fire or
sprinkler system, a thorough hydraulic analysis shall be performed to ensure
that the installation of the backflow system does not result in pressure loss
to the system that compromises the fire safety system. In the event that there
is a loss of pressure, the customer shall restore the pressure in the system to
operate at the required safety levels. Prior to installing a backflow device
onto a fire or sprinkler system the customer shall submit all hydraulic
calculations and backflow prevention device specifications to the fire
department to ensure that fire requirements have been met.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Water Customer Responsibility: It shall be the responsibility of the
water customer to prevent backflow into the public water system by ensuring
that:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â All cross-connections are removed or approved cross-connection
control devices are installed for control of backflow and back siphonage.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Cross-connection control devices are installed in accordance with
the manufacturer's instructions.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Cross-connection control devices are inspected at the time of
installation and tested annually by any party contracted or otherwise retained
or hired by the Village that is a certified Cross Connection Control Device
Inspector (CCCDI) and an agent of the Village. The inspection of mechanical
devices shall include physical testing in accordance with the manufacturer's
instructions.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The customer has retained any and all manufacturer's instructions
and schematics with regard to the cross-connection control device. The customer
shall present the same to any party contracted or otherwise retained or hired
by the Village and the Public Works Department designee, when requested.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Any new construction, change of ownership or rehabilitation of
existing residential and nonresidential premises shall be required to be in
compliance with this section and shall be subject to the permitting process of
the Village.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Additional Water Supplies: No person, firm or corporation shall
establish or permit to be established or maintain or permit to be maintained
any connection whereby a private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other
than the regular public water supply of the Village enters the supply or
distribution system of the Village, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency
water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply shall have
been approved by the Public Works Department and the IEPA.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Written Surveys: The Public Works Department will cause written surveys
to be issued and investigations to be made of both residential and
nonresidential premises served by the public water supply to determine whether
actual or potential hazards to the public water supply and the premises may
exist and to accurately keep records of the existence of any cross-connection
devices.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Timing And Administration Of Written Survey: Such written surveys
and investigations shall be made as often as the Public Works Department shall
deem necessary. Because of the large quantity of residential and nonresidential
buildings, the Public Works Department has the discretion to stagger the
distribution of the written surveys. Records of such written surveys shall be
maintained and available for review. Written surveys shall be served via U.S.
mail first class ("initial notice"). The customer shall return the written
survey to the Public Works Department no later than ten (10) days following the
date on the initial notice.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Failure To Respond To Written Survey: Should a customer fail to
provide the information required by the written survey, in the time specified
by the written survey, then the Public Works Department shall provide another
letter requesting that the written survey be completed and returned within five
(5) days from the date on the second notice ("second notice"). If the customer
still fails to return the written survey to the Public Works Department on the
sixteenth day after the date of the second notice, the Public Works Department
shall have the right to disconnect water service until compliance with the
written survey is achieved. In addition, the failure to submit a completed
written survey will be considered a violation of this section and will subject
the customer to the fines set forth in the schedule of fines and fees, and any
of the remedies set forth in subsection L of this section.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Physical Survey: The Public Works Department will cause physical
surveys to be made of both residential and nonresidential premises served by
the public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to the
public water supply may exist and the existence of any cross-connections and
any cross-connection devices.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Timing And Administration Of Physical Survey: Such physical surveys
shall be made as often as the Public Works Department shall deem necessary.
Such physical surveys will be performed by a CCCDI registered with and selected
by the Village. The cost of the physical survey shall be based on the schedule
of fines and fees and shall be payable to the Village. Records of such physical
surveys shall be maintained and available for review. The Village may also send
any party contracted or otherwise retained or hired by the Village for the
purpose of verifying the presence or absence of cross-connections and cross-
connection devices with the public water supply or within the premises. On
demand, the customer of the premises so served shall furnish to the Public
Works Department any information, which the Public Works Department may request
regarding the plumbing and piping system or systems or water use on such
premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Failure To Respond To Physical Survey Or Failure To Provide
Information: The refusal of such information, when demanded, shall, within the
discretion of the Public Works Department, be deemed evidence of the presence
of improper connections as provided in this section and may subject the
customer to a disconnection from the public water supply after reasonable
notice and a fine as set forth in the schedule of fines and fees.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Inspection, Testing, Records And Repairs: Each cross-connection device
and secondary cross-connection device shall be tested by any party contracted
or otherwise retained or hired by the Village after the physical survey, at the
time of installation of the cross-connection device and at least annually or
more frequently if recommended by the manufacturer depending on the type of
hazard.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Inspection And Testing Of Cross-Connection Devices: If it is
determined by the Public Works Department and/or any party contracted or
otherwise retained or hired by the Village that there exists a cross-connection
or cross-connection device(s) as specified by this section, agency regulations
or other law, the following shall apply:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Village Notice To The Customer: The Village shall issue notice to
the customer that the customer's connection(s) to the Village's public water
supply or distribution and the customer's plumbing system and all cross-
connection devices and secondary cross-connection devices must be inspected and
tested by any party contracted or otherwise retained or hired by the Village
who is registered with and selected by the Village. The notice shall also
contain the cost of the inspection and testing as set forth in the schedule of
fines and fees.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Scheduling Of The Inspection And Testing: After receiving the
notice from the Village, the customer shall call the Village Public Works
Department, or any party contracted or otherwise retained or hired by the
Village, to schedule the inspection and testing. The inspection and testing
must be completed within the time period as specified in the notice. The CCCDI
who will conduct the inspection may be any party contracted or otherwise
retained or hired by the Village.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Reporting To The Village: Upon completion of the inspection and
testing, the party contracted or otherwise retained by the Village shall
prepare and deliver to the customer a certified record of the test results.
Within five (5) business days after the inspection and testing of the cross-
connection device by the Village's contractor, the Village's contractor shall
submit the certified record of the test results to the Village for each of the
devices tested. A copy of the Village's contractor's documents evidencing
certification as a CCCDI with a current agency approval number, a copy of the
contractor's current Illinois plumbing license, and proof of insurance with the
Village listed as an additional insured, must be on file with the Village prior
to performing any inspections and testing. Records submitted shall be available
for inspection by agency personnel in accordance with 415 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/19.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Tagging Of Device: Following each inspection and testing each
cross-connection device shall have a tag attached listing the date of the most
recent test, name and approval number of the party contracted or otherwise
retained by the Village performing the test, test results certified by the
party contracted or otherwise retained by the Village, repairs or servicing
required, repairs or services performed and date repairs and services
completed. A maintenance log shall be maintained at the premises for each
device which includes all testing and repairs done since installation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Compliance Prior To The Effective Date Hereof: Notwithstanding
the foregoing, if at the time of the physical survey or anytime prior to the
first inspection and testing following the initial physical survey following
the passage of this section, the customer provides the Village with certified
test results for the cross-connection devices and other documents required in
full compliance with this section, the customer may submit the required
documents as specified in this subsection along with the applicable fees, if
any, as specified in the schedule of fines and fees. In order for the Public
Works Department to maintain a system of uniformity, the Public Works
Department may set a new annual inspection date that may be less than three
hundred sixty five (365) days from the previous inspection and testing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Determination Of Lack Of Compliance After Inspection And Testing: If
the party contracted or otherwise retained by the Village determines that the
cross-connection device is not in compliance with applicable laws or that a
cross connection exists without a cross-connection device in place, said party
contracted or otherwise retained by the Village shall immediately notify the
Village Public Works Department and the customer shall take steps to remedy the
situation no later than five (5) business days thereafter. The customer shall
hire a CCCDI registered in the Village and fully licensed to conduct the
repair. Upon repairing the device or otherwise bringing the cross-connection
device or cross-connection into compliance with this section, the cross-
connection device or cross-connection shall be reinspected by the a party
contracted or otherwise retained by the Village for reinspection. The customer
shall be responsible for all applicable fees and costs for any reinspection by
any party contracted or otherwise retained by the Village and may be provided
prior to inspection upon customer's request. In the event that the customer
informs the Public Works Department of extenuating circumstances as to why the
correction cannot or has not been made within five (5) business days of being
notified of the lack of compliance, a time extension may be granted at the
discretion of the Public Works Department.
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â Failure To Comply: If it is determined that a premises is not in
compliance with this section, agency regulations or other law, the premises,
cross-connection or cross-connection devices must be brought into compliance
immediately. The Public Works Department is hereby authorized and directed to
act as follows in the enforcement of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Discontinuance Of Water Service With Notice: The Public Works
Department of the Village is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue,
after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service to any
premises wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this section
is known to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as the Public
Works Department may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of
the public water supply distribution mains. Water service to such premises
shall not be restored until such conditions have been eliminated or corrected
in compliance with the provisions of this section, and until a reconnection fee
as listed in the schedule of fines and fees is paid to the Village.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Discontinuance Of Water Service Without Notice: Immediate
disconnection can be effected when the Public Works Department believes that
imminent danger of harmful contamination of the public water supply system
exists with as much notice as possible. Such action shall be followed by verbal
and written notification of the cause of disconnection. Immediate disconnection
without notice to any party can be effected to prevent actual or anticipated
contamination or pollution of the public water supply, provided that, in the
reasonable opinion of the Public Works Department or the Illinois Environmental
Protection Agency, such action is required to prevent actual or potential
contamination or pollution of the public water supply.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Issuance Of A Violation Notice: Issue a violation notice to the
customer, pursuant to this section, for not being in compliance with this
section and which shall be adjudicated by the code hearing department
procedures in title 1, chapter 13 of this code. Parties found to have violated
the provisions of this Chapter may be assessed a fine not to exceed $750 for
each violation, where each day that the violation occurs or continues shall be
deemed a separate and distinct violation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Disconnection Of Water Service For Failure To Pay Fines And Fees: At
the discretion of the Public Works Department, water service to the premises
will continue to be disconnected if the customer does not come into compliance
and pay any outstanding fines and fees, including but not limited to any
reconnection fees as established by the Village, after being provided with
reasonable notice of the same.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â An attempt to shut off the domestic water supply and leave the fire
suppression water line intact is recommended, whenever possible. If for any
reason the suppression system is shut off to ensure compliance, the Village of
Broadview Fire Department Chief and Fire Inspector must be notified at the time
of shut off. The Village of Broadview Fire Department will notify business
representatives and direct them as to the procedures associated with water shut
off and how it pertains to the safely of their employees and building
structure.
Â Â Â M.Â Â Â Permits: The installation of any cross-connection device or secondary
cross-connection device and the elimination of any cross-connection in
violation of this section requires the completion of a building permit and full
compliance with all provisions of this code.
Â Â Â N.Â Â Â Customer Responsibility: The customer responsible for back siphoned
material or contamination through backflow, if contamination of the potable
water supply system occurs through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly
installed, maintained or repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed,
must bear the cost of cleanup of the potable water supply system.
Â Â Â O.Â Â Â Nonliability: Neither the Village nor its employees, directors,
trustees, agents or assigns shall be liable to any customer for any injury,
damages nor lost revenues which may result from termination of said customer's
water supply in accordance with the terms of this section, whether or not said
termination was with or without notice.
Â Â Â P.Â Â Â Administrative Adjudication: Any violation notice issued pursuant to
the provisions of this section shall be governed by the code hearing department
procedures in title 1, chapter 13 of this code.
Â Â Â Q.Â Â Â Property Transfer: All residential, commercial, and industrial
properties being transferred within the Village shall fully comply with this
section and shall be required to complete a written survey, have a physical
survey, have an inspection and testing of any and all devices, pay all
necessary fees and fines and take all necessary action to be in compliance with
this section and this code prior to closing on the sale. (Ord. 10-31, 6-7-2010;
amd. Ord. 2019-27, 11-18-2019; amd. Ord. CO-2022-06, 3-7-2022)
8-4-3: CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS:
8-4-3-1: SERVICE PIPES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Separate Connections: Each residential structure and each business,
regardless of whether it is located in the same building structure as another
business, shall have its own service pipe connection to the public water main.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Installation: All service pipes from the main to the premises to be
served shall be installed at the cost of the owner of the property involved or
the applicant for the service. Such installation shall be under the supervision
of the Director of Public Works.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Specifications: No service pipe shall be installed unless it conforms
to specifications approved by the Director of Public Works, a copy of which
specifications shall be kept on file by the Department of Public Works and the
Building Department and shall be open to inspection by any interested person.
(Ord. 2002-06, 5-20-2002; amd. Ord. 2019-27, 11-18-2019; Ord. CO-2023-15, 5-15-
2023)
8-4-3-2: SHUTOFF BOXES AND VALVE BASINS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Shutoff Boxes: Shutoff or service boxes shall be placed on every
service pipe and shall be located between the curb line and the sidewalk line
where this is practicable. Such boxes shall be located so that they are easily
accessible and shall be protected from frost.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Valve Basins: All new water service connections with shutoff valves of
three inches (3") and over must be put in sixty inch (60") precast concrete
valve basins. All existing water services with valves three inches (3") or over
that are in a six inch (6") cast iron valve box shall be converted to a sixty
inch (60") precast concrete valve basin. This subsection will be enforced when
there is a new building, change of ownership, change of occupancy or major
remodeling. (1987 Code; amd. Ord. 2019-27, 11-18-2019)
8-4-3-3: STOPCOCKS:
There shall be a stopcock and waste cock attached to every supply pipe at the
point where it enters the building inside the same so as to admit the water
being shut off. Where service pipes are intended to supply two (2) or more
premises or tenements, a separate service cock shall be used for each tenement
or premises. (1987 Code; amd. Ord. 2019-27, 11-18-2019)
8-4-3-4: REPAIRS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Service Pipes And Meters: Service pipes shall be kept in good repair at
all times. All repairs on service pipes and the plumbing system of buildings
shall be made by and at the expense of the owner of the premises served;
excepting, the meters shall be repaired only by the Village. The Director of
Public Works may, in case of emergency, repair any service pipe, and if this is
done, the cost of such repair work shall be repaid to the Village by the owner
of the premises served. Said Director of Public Works shall cut off the water
to allow repairs to be made whenever notice is given that such repairs are
contemplated.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Leaks: The Village shall notify the property owner of any water leak in
the water service line between the buffalo box and the water meter and shall
give the property owner written notice to repair the leak within fifteen (15)
days. If the water leak is not repaired within the allotted time, the Village
shall bill the property owner for water wasted at the rate of six thousand
(6,000) gallons per day from the date of notice to repair the water leak. The
water wasted shall be paid for at the regular water rates then in effect. (Ord.
92-9, 3-2-1992; amd. Ord. 2019-27, 11-18-2019)
8-4-3-5: EXCAVATIONS AND RESTORATIONS:
Excavations made for installing service pipes or repairing the same shall be
made under the supervision of the Director of Public Works. (1987 Code; amd.
Ord. 2019-27, 11-18-2019; Ord. CO-2023-15, 5-15-2023)
8-4-3-6: RESPONSIBILITY OF VILLAGE:
The Village shall be responsible for the operation and maintenance of water
mains, valves, fire hydrants and all other appurtenances of the water system
and water service leads to the buffalo box, including the joints on either side
of the round way. (1987 Code; amd. Ord. 2019-27, 11-18-2019)
8-4-3-7: NONLIABILITY OF VILLAGE:
The Village shall not be liable for any damage caused by a leak or break in any
service pipe, or for damage caused by a failure to repair the same promptly;
nor shall the Village be liable for any damage caused by the repair or
installation of such pipe or resulting therefrom when such work is not done by
the Village. (1987 Code; amd. Ord. 2019-27, 11-18-2019)
8-4-4: WATER METERS:
Each residential structure and individual business, regardless of whether the
business is located in the same building structure as another business, must be
equipped with an adequate water meter, tested by the Director of Public Works,
at the expense of the owner of the residence or business. Only one meter shall
be operated for each residential structure or individual business, and
additional meters shall be disconnected. No water from the municipal water
supply shall be used unless it is drawn through and measured by such a meter,
except water used in case of fires. Before any premises are occupied, a water
meter shall be installed therein as herein provided. (Ord. 2002-06, 5-20-2002;
amd. Ord. 2019-27, 11-18-2019; Ord. CO-2023-15, 5-15-2023)
8-4-4-1: INSTALLATION REGULATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Installation Required: Meters shall be installed by the applicant for
service.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Location: Meters shall be installed in a place easy of access, and the
location must be approved by the Director of Public Works.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Seal: All meters shall be sealed before applicant can receive water
from the Village, and no seal shall be broken by anyone not authorized so to
do.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Fee: Builders, plumbers and others shall be responsible for payment to
the Village of the cost of the meters plus twenty percent (20%) to cover the
cost of handling and setting of meters, for all water meters installed in homes
and all other structures within the Village where required. (1987 Code; amd.
Ord. 2019-27, 11-18-2019)
8-4-4-2: METER MAINTENANCE; INSPECTIONS, TESTS, FEES:
The Village shall be responsible for the operation and maintenance of the water
meter for all property owners and shall, upon request, inspect and make tests
of the water meter if the Village deems it necessary to determine its condition
and accuracy. The Village will replace water meters where judged necessary or
desirable by the Director of Public Works. Maintenance of the water meter shall
not include the shutoff valve immediately before the water meter. (1987 Code;
amd. Ord. 2019-27, 11-18-2019)
8-4-4-3: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
The water meter must be located so that it is readily accessible to
representatives of the Village. Any change in the location of the water meter
or any construction change which will alter its accessibility must be approved
by the Director of Public Works. (1987 Code; amd. Ord. 2019-27, 11-18-2019)
8-4-4-4: READING METERS AND METER CLASSIFICATION:
The Village of Broadview shall have access to all residences, businesses, and
other structures as needed to verify the water meter readings. The Village of
Broadview shall have access to all locations at additional time(s) during the
year if the Village has reason to believe that the water meter is not properly
functioning. (Ord. 2001-01, 1-8-2001; amd. Ord. 2019-27, 11-18-2019)
8-4-5: WATER AND SEWER RATES:
The water and sewer rates charged to water and sewer consumers of the Village
of Broadview shall be as provided by the President and Board of Trustees.
Effective immediately, any changes to water and sewer rates whatsoever, shall
be imposed by ordinance.
A minimum fee equal to the cost of two thousand (2,000) gallons shall be
charged to each consumer of water in the Village per month.
Effective January 1, 2020, the tiers shall be charged the following rates per
gallon:
Â 
Tier   Number of  1/2020 to 5/2020 to 4/ 5/2021 to 4/ 5/2022 to 4/ 5/2023 to 4/
       gallons    4/2020    2021         2022         2023         2024
Tier 1 Up to 25   $9.22     $10.19       $11.15       $12.12       $13.08
Tier 2 26 to 49   $8.76     $9.68        $10.59       $11.51       $12.43
Tier 3 50 or more $8.32     $9.19        $10.07       $10.94       $11.81
Â 
(Ord. 2016-38, 9-6-2016; amd. Ord. 2019-27, 11-18-2019; Ord. CO-2023-15, 5-15-
2023)
8-4-6: WATER BILLS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Penalty For Nonpayment: Bills for water usage shall be dated and sent
out by the fifteenth of every month. Payments made online shall be credited to
the account on the next business day. A penalty of ten percent (10%) shall be
due if payment is not received by the Village on or before the due date, which
is the last business day of the month. If payment has not been timely received,
a late notice/shut off notice shall be sent and full payment must be remitted
including payment of a ten dollars ($10.00) administrative fee in addition to
any other fees or penalties.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Water Turnoff, Notice:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The Village of Broadview will send a notice to a resident and/or the
owner of the property that their water bill has not been paid on or before the
due date and such notice may state that water services shall cease on a date
certain unless the bill is paid in full.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Once water services have been shut off, the Village of Broadview
shall charge fifty dollars ($50.00) to restore water service.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â All fees charged for restoration of water service are in addition to
the amount owed for the unpaid water bill. The resident and/or the owner of the
property must pay all fees for restoration of water service as well as the full
amount owed for the unpaid water bill prior to the Village restoring water
service. The fee to restore water service on the same day as the Village's
receipt of full payment shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00), which is in
addition to the payment of all other fees owed for the restoration of water
service and for the unpaid water bill. In all other instances, water service
shall be restored the next business day during the hours of seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M., Monday through Friday.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Any person whose check is returned to the Village for nonsufficient
funds shall be assessed a twenty five dollar ($25.00) fee as well as any fees
charged to the Village as a result of the check being returned for
nonsufficient funds. This fee is in addition to any fees owed to the Village
for restoration of water service or for an unpaid water bill. After two (2)
checks from the same individual, residence, or account are returned to the
Village for nonsufficient funds, no checks shall be accepted by the Village
from that individual, residence, or account and the individual must pay all
future bills with a cashier's check or money order.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Lien Against The Property, Notice: In addition to any other provisions
herein for the nonpayment of water bills, the Village may, pursuant to 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-139-8, place a lien upon the real estate to
which water service is provided for delinquent water charges. A notice of lien
shall be filed with the recorder of deeds of registrar of titles setting forth
the following information: 1) a description of the subject real estate; 2) the
amount of money due for such service; and 3) the date when such amount became
delinquent. The Village shall have the power to foreclose its lien as provided
by statute. (Ord. 86-4, 3-17-1986; amd. Ord. 2019-27, 11-18-2019)
8-4-7: LAWN SPRINKLER SYSTEMS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Permit And Place Required: No installation of lawn sprinkler systems
shall be made until a permit is issued by the building department. A plan in
duplicate shall be submitted for approval by the installer when the application
is made. One plan is to be kept as a record in the Village files and one copy
of the plan stamped "approved" is to be issued to the installer when the permit
is issued and is made available when installation is made.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Inspection Fee, Bond Required: An inspection fee of one dollar ($1.00)
for each sprinkler head in the sprinkler system shall be charged with a minimum
charge of one hundred dollars ($100.00) and a bond of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) shall also be furnished by the plumbing contractor before the
permit is issued.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Licensed Plumbers To Install, Inspection Required: All installations of
lawn sprinkler systems shall be made by qualified, licensed contractors as
required under the Illinois plumbing license law 1  and a final inspection will
be made by the Village plumbing inspector before installation can be approved
for use of water and connection to the water distribution system on premises.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Construction Specifications:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Compliance With Plumbing Code: All street openings, water taps, B-
boxes, water connections and meters for measuring water consumption, are to
comply with, and shall be installed in accordance with, the existing plumbing
code 2 .
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Sprinkler Heads: All sprinkler heads shall be level with all public
sidewalks, curbs and roadways.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Automatic Timing And Backflow Devices: An automatic timing device
and backflow device shall be installed on each section of the lawn sprinkling
systems for proper control and consumption of water. Only automatic timing
devices shall be installed on lawn sprinkling systems and all sections shall be
installed in a manner which will ensure proper draining.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Nonliability Of Village: The Village assumes no responsibility for
damaged heads due to public work on such utilities. (1987 Code; amd. Ord. 2019-
27, 11-18-2019; Ord. CO-2023-15, 5-15-2023)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 320/1 et seq.
2 2. See section
  9-4-1 of this code.
8-4-8: WATER CONSERVATION 1 :
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Definition Of Sprinkling Purposes: As used in this section the
expression "sprinkling purposes" means and refers to the use of water for
sprinkling lawns, gardens, trees, shrubs, washing cars, flushing walks and any
other sprinkling or watering which requires the use of a hose.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Water Use Restricted: It shall be unlawful to use water from the
Village water distribution system for sprinkling purposes:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â At any time from eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00)
P.M. from May 1 to September 30 of each year.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â At any time during which the President determines an emergency
exists by reason of a shortage of water.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Determination Of Emergency: The President or a majority of the Board of
Trustees shall have power, from time to time, to determine that an emergency
exists by reason of a shortage of water and each such determination shall
become and be in full force and effect immediately upon giving reasonable
notice thereof by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the
Village, or by written or verbal notice by the President, or by any other
department, agency, officer, employee or agent selected by the President for
such purpose, or in any other manner provided by the majority of the Board of
Trustees.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Conservation By Industrial Users: If the President determines that
there is a water shortage pursuant to subsection C of this section, then the
President or any authorized agent thereof may request industrial users of the
Village's water supply to refrain from any non-essential use of water until
such emergency has ceased. (1987 Code; amd. Ord. 2019-27, 11-18-2019; Ord. CO-
2023-15, 5-15-2023)
Â 
Notes
  3. See subsections
1 9-4-4E and F, and
  9-4-5-2C of this code.
8-4-9: PROHIBITED ACTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Tampering With Water System: It shall be unlawful for any person not
authorized by the Director of Public Works to tamper with, alter or injure any
part of the Village waterworks or supply system or with any meter. Any person
violating the provisions of this subsection A shall be subject to a fine of not
to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Use Of Ground Water As A Potable Water Supply; Prohibited:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Except for such uses or methods as are in existence on or before
August 7, 2000, the use of, or attempted use of, ground water, from within the
corporate limits of the Village, as a potable water supply, by the installation
or drilling of wells or by any other method, is hereby prohibited, including at
points of withdrawal by the Village.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â For purposes of this subsection, "potable water" is any water used
for human or domestic consumption, including, but not limited to, water used
for drinking, bathing, washing dishes, preparing foods, watering lawns, or
watering gardens in which produce intended for human consumption is grown.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Any person violating the provisions of this subsection B shall be
subject to a fine of not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
each violation.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Landlord Collection Of Fees; Payment To Village: It shall be unlawful
for any landlord to collect fees for water services in addition to or as part
of a rental payment and fail to pay the Village of Broadview the full amount
due and owing to the Village of Broadview for water services within thirty (30)
days of collecting such fees. Any landlord violating this provision shall be
fined the maximum penalty allowed by law. Each day the landlord is in violation
of this provision constitutes a separate violation for which a fine may be
imposed. For purposes of this section, "landlord" is defined as someone who
collects rental fees for the use and/or occupancy of a space. (Ord. 2001-01, 1-
8-2001; amd. Ord. 2019-27, 11-18-2019)
8-4-10: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined no less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) and no more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which the
violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 2019-27, 11-18-2019)
CHAPTER 5
SEWER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-5-1: Definitions
8-5-2: Service Connections
8-5-3: Construction Regulations
8-5-3-1: General Construction Standards
8-5-3-2: Quality Of Materials
8-5-3-3: Materials For House Drains And Sewers
8-5-3-4: Joints And Connections
8-5-3-5: "Y" Junctions
8-5-3-6: Connections Made By Licensed Plumber
8-5-4: Manholes
8-5-5: Street Openings
8-5-6: Use Of Public Sewers
8-5-6-1: Separate Sewers Required
8-5-6-2: Connections To Public Systems
8-5-6-3: Extraneous Flows, Prohibited Discharges
8-5-6-4: Combined Sewers
8-5-7: Permit Fees
8-5-8: Responsibilities Of Village And Property Owners
8-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
HOUSE: Any store building, apartment building, office building, or other
principal structure upon any parcel of land.
HOUSE DRAIN: That part of the horizontal piping within any building which
receives the discharge from any or all fixtures within the structure and
carries it to the house sewer outside the wall of the building.
HOUSE SEWER: That part of the horizontal pipe which begins outside of the wall
of a building and connects the "house drain" with the main public sewer.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer or drain for the drainage of water closets, sinks,
laundry tubs, bathtubs and similar fixtures.
STORMWATER SEWER: A sewer or drain for the drainage of roofs, lands,
foundations and surface water. (1987 Code)
8-5-2: SERVICE CONNECTIONS:
A written notice of intention to make a connection with a public sewer shall be
filed at the office of the department of public works at least twenty four (24)
hours, exclusive of Sundays and holidays, before such connection is made. Every
such connection shall be left uncovered until it has been inspected and
approved by the director of public works or designee or an inspector from his
office.
In every case, connections of any kind with the public sewer shall be made
under the supervision of and in a manner satisfactory to the director of public
works and water. (1987 Code; amd. Ord. CO-2023-15, 5-15-2023)
8-5-3: CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS:
8-5-3-1: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
The connection between the soil or waste pipe and the vitrified tile sewer
extending to the public sewer shall be constructed with Portland cement mortar,
made with one part cement and two (2) parts clean, sharp sand. An arched or
other proper opening shall be provided in the wall for the house drain to
prevent damage by settlement. The opening around the house drain may be filled
with pure refined asphaltum. (1987 Code)
8-5-3-2: QUALITY OF MATERIALS:
All vitrified clay sewer pipe shall conform to the ASTM standard and
specifications for clay sewer pipe. There shall be no change in the quality and
specifications for cast iron, wrought iron or steel pipe. (1987 Code)
8-5-3-3: MATERIALS FOR HOUSE DRAINS AND SEWERS:
All house drains shall be constructed using either cast-iron pipe, vitrified
clay sewer pipe or steel pipe and all house sewers shall be constructed of
vitrified clay sewer pipe, or extra heavy cast-iron pipe. (1987 Code)
8-5-3-4: JOINTS AND CONNECTIONS:
In joining vitrified clay sewer pipe, the spigot of one pipe must be carefully
centered into the bell of the next pipe. Joints shall be firmly packed and
oakum or jute in such a manner as to not disturb the alignment of the pipes,
and in such a way as to permit the compound to have the greatest unobstructed
surface for good pouring and adhesion. For a four inch (4") pipe approximately
one ounce of dry braided jute shall be used and for a six inch (6") pipe
approximately four (4) ounces of dry braided jute shall be used. Joints shall
then be poured with an asphalt compound. Asphalt joints shall be made of
Peraseal, G-K, Korite or equal. Care shall be exercised in placing the runner
or snake, to assure nonleakage during pouring and it shall not be removed until
the compound is sufficiently cooled to be permanently set. The pouring
temperature of the compound shall be between three hundred fifty and four
hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (350Â°â€“450Â°F). The compound shall be poured
continuously until the joint is completely filled and shall done as rapidly as
possible. Pipes, before pouring, shall preferably be dry and clean. There shall
be no change in the manner in which joints and connections are made on cast-
iron, wrought-iron or steel pipe. (1987 Code)
8-5-3-5: "Y" JUNCTIONS:
Whenever practicable, the house sewer shall connect with the public sewer by
means of "Y" junctions in the public sewer left for such purpose. If such "Y"
junction is not available, a break may be made in the public sewer for the
house sewer connection, and such connection shall be made with a clamp type
saddle and circular saw cut of sewer main by proper tool (Shewer tap machine or
equivalent) and supported by brick and Portland cement mortar in a manner
satisfactory to the Director of Public Works and Water; provided, however, that
when the public sewer is of vitrified tile eight inches (8") or less in
diameter, no break shall be made, but a length of pipe shall be removed and a
"Y" substituted therefor to which the house sewer shall connect. (1987 Code)
8-5-3-6: CONNECTIONS MADE BY LICENSED PLUMBER:
All connections between metal pipes and between metal pipe and tile sewer,
shall be made by a licensed plumber and in such manner as the Director of
Public Works and Water shall direct. (1987 Code)
8-5-4: MANHOLES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Direct Connections Prohibited: Direct connection of a house sewer to a
manhole or catch basin on the public sewer is prohibited unless the written
permission of the Director of Public Works and Water is first obtained.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â House Sewer Change Of Direction: Where it is necessary to make a change
in direction of the house sewer between the building and the public sewer, such
change of direction shall be made by means of a manhole to be construed as the
Director of Public Works and Water shall direct.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Construction Standards: All manholes and gravel basins shall be
constructed of concrete, either monolithic or block, composed by volume of one
part Portland cement, two (2) parts sand, and four (4) parts gravel or crushed
stone, mixed with sufficient water. They shall be circular in section, with an
interior diameter of three feet (3'), except that the top shall be drawn into
two feet (2') beginning at a point three feet (3') below the top, so as to fit
and support the cover. The walls of such manhole or gravel basin shall be four
inches (4") thick if built monolithic, or five inches (5") if built of blocks
with full joints of mortar composed of one part Portland cement to two (2)
parts of sharp, clean sand, mixed with sufficient water. Each manhole or gravel
basin shall be provided with a six inch (6") concrete floor with the invert, if
any, molded smoothly in the concrete or formed of sections of vitrified pipe
imbedded in the concrete. Each manhole or gravel basin shall be provided with a
cast-iron cover and cast-iron or concrete frame. The floor of all gravel basins
shall be three feet (3') below the flow line of the outlet.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Industrial And Commercial Buildings: All industrial and commercial
buildings, where applicable, must provide a sanitary inspection manhole four
feet (4') in diameter. This is to provide access to take sewer samples as per
Code by the Metropolitan Sanitary District. (1987 Code)
8-5-5: STREET OPENINGS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Applicability Of Code Provisions: The provisions of Chapter 2 of this
Title shall apply to any street openings made in connection with sewer work.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Bond Required 1 : No permit shall be issued for the construction or
installation of any plumbing or sewer work which necessitates, or in connection
with which there is made, any excavation in any street, alley, parkway,
sidewalk or other public place, unless the applicant shall furnish a bond with
a corporation licensed to do business in the state as surety thereon, to
indemnify the village against any loss, cost, damage, expense or liability of
any kind which the village may suffer or which may accrue against it by reason
of anything done in connection with the doing of such work, or by reason of any
failure to maintain proper barriers and warning signals around any opening or
excavation, or by reason of any obstruction arising, existing, or caused by
reason of the work. The bond required herein shall be in the penal sum of five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00). (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 8-9-10C of this title and subsections 9-2-3E and 9-4-3C of
  this code.
8-5-6: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS:
8-5-6-1: SEPARATE SEWERS REQUIRED:
Each house and individual business, regardless of whether the business is
located in the same building structure as another business, shall be provided
with a separate sewage outlet for storm water, and with a separate sewage
outlet for sanitary sewage. These separate house or business sewers or services
shall each extend from the house or business to the street line. The downspouts
for draining roofs and areaways, and all storm or surface water connections
shall be connected with the house or business storm water service pipe. All
other house or business sewage pipes, including water closet, sink, laundry tub
and bathtub drain and basement floor drains shall be connected with the house
or business sanitary sewage service pipe. (Ord. 2002-08, 7-1-2002)
8-5-6-2: CONNECTIONS TO PUBLIC SYSTEMS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â If separate public sanitary sewers and storm sewers exist in the public
street adjacent to the house or business, the above mentioned sanitary sewerage
house or business service pipe shall be connected with the public sanitary
sewer and the above mentioned storm water house or business service pipe shall
be connected with the public storm water sewer. In no case shall any sewer
connections be made by adjacent property owners which will permit sanitary
sewage to drain into any public storm water sewer. (Ord. 2002-08, 7-1-2002)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Where only one public sewer for both storm water and sanitary sewage is
provided, roof drain and any other storm water connection that go into the
sanitary sewer must be disconnected and sealed to allow no storm water into the
sanitary sewer. (1987 Code)
8-5-6-3: EXTRANEOUS FLOWS, PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Purpose: It is the purpose of this section that the entry of extraneous
flows into the sanitary sewer system be prohibited and be discontinued, where
such entry may be accidentally or knowingly occurring.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Definition: "Extraneous flows" are those flows, other than domestic
sewage or industrial waste, consisting of ground waters, surface waters, storm
waters and other drainage of clear waters.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Prohibited Discharges And Connections:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful to discharge or cause to be discharged,
directly or indirectly, into the sanitary sewer system of the village, any
ground waters, surface waters, storm waters or any other extraneous flows.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful to make a connection or to maintain or operate
a connection which serves any home, building or any other establishment,
premises or facility, and which contributes, directly or indirectly, to the
sanitary sewer of the village, any ground waters, surface waters, storm waters
or any other extraneous flows.
All drains or connections designed or intended to receive and discharge ground
waters, surface waters, storm waters, and other drainage, shall be considered
illegal connections if they discharge directly or indirectly into the sanitary
sewer system. Such illegal connections include, but are not limited to, roof
drains, downspouts, footing drains, areaway drains, drain tiles (and sump pumps
used to collect and discharge same), yard drains, catch basins 1  and inlets,
and such connections shall not be allowed to discharge directly or indirectly
into the sanitary sewers.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Responsibility Of Owner: The proper maintenance and operation of a
building service sewer, house connection or sanitary sewer line to the point of
connection to the municipal sanitary sewer system shall be the responsibility
of the owner of the premises served by said sanitary sewer pipes. "Maintenance"
means keeping the sanitary sewer connection, sewer lines or other sewer
facilities or structures in satisfactory working condition and good state of
repair (including, but not limited to, preventing any obstruction or extraneous
materials or flows from entering said facilities, protecting said facilities
from any damage and keeping same free from defects or malfunctions), and making
necessary provisions and taking necessary precautions to assure that said sewer
facilities are at all times capable of satisfactorily performing the services
and adequately discharging the functions and producing the final results and
purposes said facilities are intended to perform, discharge or produce.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Construction Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â All downspouts or roof drains shall discharge onto the ground or be
connected to a storm sewer, drainage ditches or a drainage system.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Footing drains shall be connected to sump pumps and discharge shall
be made into storm sewers, drainage ditches or a drainage system.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Sump pumps installed to receive and discharge ground waters or other
stormwaters shall be connected to the storm sewer or shall discharge into a
drainage ditch or drainage system. Sump pumps installed to receive and
discharge floor drain flow, laundry tubs or other sanitary sewage shall be
connected to the sanitary sewers. A sump pump shall be used for one function
only, either the discharge of stormwaters or the discharge of sanitary sewage.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Village Program To Eliminate Extraneous Flows: Because of their almost
instantaneous impact, their injurious results, substantial contributions and
relative ease of correction, the village will institute a priority program for
the elimination of extraneous flows entering into the sanitary sewer system
through downspouts, roof drains and other visible or outside connections which
are connected directly or indirectly to the sanitary sewer system.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Within a period of one year, starting July 15, 1975, the village
will enter into the premises and make or assist in the making of additional
inspections of the premises to ascertain if illegal connections are present.
Upon completion of the visual outside or inside inspection, the village will
advise the property owner in writing if any illegal connections are observed
and will advise on the manner corrections are to be made, and the village will,
at no expense to the owner, make further inspections of the corrections to
ensure compliance with this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Within ninety (90) days after notice to the property owner by the
village of the presence of illegal connections, the property owner shall, at
his expense, disconnect all illegal connections observed and all discharges of
extraneous flows into the sanitary sewer system, directly or indirectly, shall
be discontinued.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â In addition to visual inspections on the outside or the inside of
the premises as indicated herein, the village may make other tests and
inspections of the municipal sewer systems as it deems necessary in order to
locate such illegal connections and sources of extraneous flows as may exist.
The village, at its option, may also invoke other legal powers vested in it or
implied by the statutes for the protection of the health and welfare of the
public, or institute such legal action as it deems necessary to discover and
order the disconnection of any illegal connections that may exist.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Penalty: Failure on the part of the property owner to comply with the
provisions of subsections A, B, C, D, E and F2 of this section shall be
considered a violation which, upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine of
not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than two hundred dollars
($200.00). Each day shall constitute a separate violation.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Specifications Adopted: "Manual Of Procedures For The Administration Of
The Sewer Permit Ordinance", adopted September 3, 1970, as amended October 26,
1972, metropolitan sanitary district greater Chicago and "Guidelines For Sewer
Rehabilitation And The Elimination Of Extraneous Flow" (second print May 1973)
are hereby adopted by reference as part of this section, copies of which are on
file in the offices of the village.
In the event of conflict between the provisions of this section and any other
previous ordinance, the provisions of this section shall govern. (1987 Code)
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Inspections, Access To Premises:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Any person who owns, leases, manages or controls a single- family or
multiple-family residence, or a business establishment in the village, shall
allow the building commissioner or his duly appointed inspector, to gain entry
to the premises for the purpose of making inspections and tests required by the
MSD.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any person who denies entry to the building commissioner or
inspector shall receive a warning notice advising that if entry is not allowed
within five (5) days, the person will be in violation of this subsection and
subject to fines as set forth herein.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Any person who violates any provision of this subsection shall be
subject to a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day, said fine to accrue
until such time as entry is allowed. (Ord. 88-3, 3-21-1988)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See section
  4-5-5 of this code.
8-5-6-4: COMBINED SEWERS:
No permits for sewers shall be issued after December 31, 1970, by the village
unless the following conditions herein are complied with. In all areas
designated as combined sewer areas on the metropolitan sanitary district maps,
the following requirements shall apply:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Separation: Complete separation of sewers shall be provided within the
property lines.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Downspouts: All downspouts or roof drains shall discharge onto the
ground or be connected to storm sewers. No downspouts or roof drains shall be
connected to the sanitary sewers.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Footing Drains: Footing drains shall be connected to sump pumps and
discharge shall be made into storm sewers or drainage ditches. No footing
drains or drainage tile shall be connected to the sanitary sewer.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Sump Pumps: Sump pumps installed to receive and discharge ground waters
or other stormwaters shall be connected to storm sewers or discharged into a
drainage ditch. Such pumps installed to receive and discharge floor drain flow
or other sanitary sewage shall be connected to the sanitary sewer. A sump pump
shall be used for one function only, the discharge of stormwaters. (1987 Code)
8-5-7: PERMIT FEES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The permit fee for any connection with the public sewer system shall be
one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for any sanitary sewer permit for
any sewers measuring less than eight inches (8") and for any sewers over eight
inches (8"), the permit fee shall be seven thousand five hundred dollars
($7,500.00). These fees shall cover the costs of permit and plan reviews
required by the Village.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The fee for all sewer work not involving public sewer connections shall
be based on the contract price in conformity with the general building permit
fees 1 . (1987 Code; amd. Ord. CO-2023-15, 5-15-2023)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 8-9-10C of this title and subsections 9-2-3E and 9-4-3C of
  this code.
8-5-8: RESPONSIBILITIES OF VILLAGE AND PROPERTY OWNERS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Responsibility Of Village: The village shall be responsible for the
main trunk sanitary sewers wherever located within the village limits. Said
village shall keep them in proper condition, repair and free from obstructions.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Responsibility Of Property Owner: Each property owner shall be
responsible for the sanitary sewer service line from the building to the point,
including the connection, with the village main trunk line. It shall be the
property owner's responsibility to keep the sanitary sewer service line in
proper condition, repair and free from obstructions.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Village Policy On Obstructions: In the event of an obstacle in the
sanitary sewer service line, the village, if requested and without charge, will
inspect the main trunk or lateral sanitary sewer lines to determine any general
stoppage. If the village main trunk or lateral sewers are clear, the property
owner, at his own expense, shall cause the condition to be rectified,
regardless of the cause of the obstruction. Whenever possible, the village will
assist property owners in emergency situations provided the property owners
agree in advance to pay for services rendered by the village. Charges shall be
based upon rates on file in the department of public works covering labor and
materials. (1987 Code)
CHAPTER 6
COMBINED WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-6-1: Combined Waterworks And Sewerage System Established
8-6-1: COMBINED WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM ESTABLISHED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The existing waterworks system in its entirety, together with all
additions, improvements and extensions thereto that may hereafter be made and
the existing sewerage system in its entirety, together with all additions,
improvements and extensions thereto that may hereafter be made, of the Village,
be and the same are hereby declared to be a combined system, and said combined
waterworks and sewerage system shall be maintained and operated as a single
utility, and charges or rates shall be established for the use of such combined
system, which shall be reasonable and commensurate with the service performed
by said combined system, and shall be sufficient to pay the cost of operation
and maintenance of said system, to provide an adequate depreciation fund and to
pay the principal of and interest upon all revenue bonds that are payable from
the revenues of said combined system.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â All property, real, personal and mixed, comprising the now existing
waterworks system and the now existing sewerage system, as in the preambles to
Ordinance 88-5 more fully described, be and the same is hereby found,
determined and declared to constitute the properties of the combined waterworks
and sewerage system of the Village.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â From and after the effective date of this Section said existing
waterworks system and said existing sanitary sewerage system shall be owned and
operated by the Village as a combined utility, known as the combined waterworks
and sewerage system of the Village, and all improvements and extensions to said
waterworks or sewerage system, either or both, shall be considered as
improvements and extensions to said combined utility; and all the properties,
assets, obligations and liabilities, of all kinds, of said waterworks system
and of said sewerage system, existing, outstanding and accruing or to accrue,
shall be held, used, confessed and acknowledged as the properties, assets,
obligations and liabilities of said combined utility. (Ord. 88-5, 5-2-1988)
CHAPTER 7
CABLE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-7-1: Adoption Of Regulations
8-7-2: Review Of Submittals
8-7-3: Hearings
8-7-4: Decisions
8-7-5: Conflicts
8-7-1: ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS:
The regulations duly adopted by the Federal Communications Commission governing
cable television service, particularly cable rate regulations, known as chapter
I of title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations, specifically subpart N,
sections 76.900 to 76.985 attached hereto and made a part hereof, as they
relate to the franchising authority's power and duties in regulating basic
cable service rates and equipment rates, are incorporated by reference as if
fully set forth herein. (Ord. 94-4, 2-7-1994)
8-7-2: REVIEW OF SUBMITTALS:
The Village President, with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees,
may appoint a Cable Review Committee consisting of not more than three (3)
members who shall be members of the Board of Trustees.
The Committee shall initially receive and review any submittal from the cable
operator under the regulations referred to above and any complaint regarding
cable operations.
With respect to any submittals by the cable operator, the Committee shall
review the submittal to determine if it is in accordance with the regulations.
If it is in compliance with the regulations, the Committee shall advise the
President and Village Board regarding the procedures and timetables required
for their review pursuant to the regulations. If the submittal is not in
compliance with the regulations, the Committee shall so advise the cable
operator, allowing it a reasonable period of time to cure any deficiencies.
With respect to complaints, the Committee shall review the complaint to
determine jurisdiction for hearing the complaint pursuant to the regulations.
The Committee shall provide complaint forms for any complainant who so requests
them. (Ord. 94-4, 2-7-1994)
8-7-3: HEARINGS:
Prior to rendering any decision regarding a cable operator's initial rate
review for basic tier service and equipment or request for rate increase, or
for change of status, the President and Board of Trustees shall schedule a
public hearing within the time allowed for action pursuant to the regulations.
Notice of such hearing shall be by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation in the Village to be published once, not more than thirty (30) days
nor less then fifteen (15) days, prior to the hearing.
All persons appearing at said hearing shall have a reasonable opportunity to be
heard and to submit comments. (Ord. 94-4, 2-7-1994)
8-7-4: DECISIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The Village shall issue a written decision in a ratemaking proceeding
whenever it disapproves an initial rate for the basic service tier or
associated equipment in whole or in part, disapproves a request for a rate
increase in whole or in part, or approves a request for an increase in whole or
in part over the objections of interested parties. A franchising authority is
not required to issue a written decision that approves an unopposed existing or
proposed rate for the basic service tier or associated equipment.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Public notice must be given of any written decision required in
subsection A of this Section, including releasing the text of any written
decision to the public. (Ord. 94-4, 2-7-1994)
8-7-5: CONFLICTS:
All ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed. To the extent allowed
by law, this Chapter and regulations attached hereto preempt the franchise
agreement currently in effect. (Ord. 94-4, 2-7-1994)
CHAPTER 8
TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE
SECTION:
8-8-1: Definitions
8-8-2: Registration Of Telecommunications Providers
8-8-3: Municipal Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee
8-8-4: Collection, Enforcement, And Administration
8-8-5: Compliance With Other Laws
8-8-6: Existing Franchise And Licenses
8-8-7: Penalties
8-8-8: Enforcement
8-8-9: Severability
8-8-10: Conflict
8-8-11: Waiver And Fee Implementation
8-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
GROSS CHARGES: The amount paid to a telecommunications retailer for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications within the Village,
and for all services rendered in connection therewith, valued in money whether
paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services, and property of
every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction on account
of the cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor
or service costs, or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended,
the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. "Gross charges" for
private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel point within
the Village, and charges for that portion of the interstate interoffice channel
provided within the Village. However, "gross charges" shall not include:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made under:
1) the fee imposed by this Chapter, 2) additional charges added to a
purchaser's bill under section 9-221 or 9-222 of the Public Utilities Act, 3)
amounts collected under section 8-11-17 of the Illinois Municipal Code, 4) the
tax imposed by the Telecommunications Excise Tax Act, 5) 911 surcharges, or 6)
the tax imposed by section 4251 of the Internal Revenue Code;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside the
Village;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of data
or information or subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or information
intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes, but is not
limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing equipment,
tabulating equipment, or accounting equipment and also includes the usage of
computers under a time- sharing agreement;
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is leased
or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Charges to business enterprises certified under section 9-222.1 of the
Public Utilities Act to the extent of such exemption and during the period of
time specified by the Village;
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, and only to the extent that
the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries or
between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit other than a regulatory required
profit for the corporation rendering such services;
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Bad debts ("bad debt" means any portion of a debt that is related to a
sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable Federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Charges paid by inserting coins in coin- operated telecommunications
devices; or
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
to the Village.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: Any Municipal street, alley, water or public right of way
dedicated or commonly used for utility purposes, including utility easements
wherein the Village has acquired the right and authority to locate or permit
the location of utilities consistent with telecommunications facilities.
"Public right of way" shall not include any real or personal Village property
that is not specifically described in the previous sentence and shall not
include Village buildings and other structures or improvements, regardless of
whether they are situated in the public right of way.
RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (Or Any Like Term):
Means and includes any retailer having or maintaining within the State of
Illinois, directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities,
transmission facilities, sales office, warehouse, or other place of business,
or any agent or other representative operating within this State under the
authority of the retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place
of business or agent or other representative is located here permanently or
temporarily, or whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business
in this State.
SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received. If this is not a defined location, as in the case of
wireless telecommunications, paging systems, maritime systems, air-to- ground
systems, and the like, "service address" shall mean the location of the
customer's primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by the
location in Illinois where bills are sent.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: Includes, but is not limited to, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange
services, private line services, specialized mobile radio services, or any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. Unless the context clearly requires
otherwise, "telecommunications" shall also include "wireless
telecommunications" as hereinafter defined. "Telecommunications" shall not
include value added services in which computer processing applications are used
to act on the form, content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes
other than transmission. "Telecommunications" shall not include purchase of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by him or her to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the end-to-end communications. Retailer
access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of intercompany
facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent provision and
used as a component of, or integrated into, end-to-end telecommunications
service shall not be included in gross charges as sale for resale.
"Telecommunications" shall not include the provision of cable services through
a cable system as defined in the Cable Communications Act of 1984 (47 USC
section 521 and following) as now or hereafter amended or cable or other
programming services subject to an open video system fee payable to the Village
through an open video system as defined in the Rules of the Federal
Communications Commission (47 CDF 76.1550 and following) as now or hereafter
amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: A. Any telecommunications retailer; and
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Any person that is not a telecommunications retailer that installs,
owns, operates or controls equipment in the public right of way that is used or
designed to be used to transmit telecommunications in any form.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER OR RETAILER OR CARRIER: Means and includes every
person engaged in the business of making sales of telecommunications at retail
as defined in this Section. The Village may, in its discretion, upon
application, authorize the collection of the fee hereby imposed by any retailer
not maintaining a place of business within this State, who, to the satisfaction
of the Village, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment of
the fee. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer to pay the
fee upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in the same manner and
subject to the same requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business
within the Village.
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS: Includes cellular mobile telephone services,
personal wireless services as defined in section 704(c) of the
Telecommunications Act of 1996 (Public Law No. 104-104), 42 USC section 332(c)
(7), as now or hereafter amended, including all commercial mobile radio
services, and paging services. (Ord. 97-9, 10-20-1997)
8-8-2: REGISTRATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Every "telecommunications provider" as defined by this Chapter shall
register with the Village within thirty (30) days after the effective date of
this Chapter or becoming a telecommunications provider, whichever is later, on
a form to be provided by the Village, provided, however, that any
telecommunications retailer that has filed a return pursuant to subsection 8-8-
4C of this Chapter shall be deemed to have registered in accordance with this
Section.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Every telecommunication provider who has registered with the Village
pursuant to subsection A of this Section has an affirmative duty to submit an
amended registration form or current return as required by subsection 8-8-4C of
this Chapter, as the case may be, to the Village within thirty (30) days from
the date of the occurrence of any changes in the information provided by the
telecommunications provider in the registration form or most recent return on
file with the Village. (Ord. 97-9, 10-20-1997)
8-8-3: MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â A Village telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee is hereby
imposed upon all telecommunications retailers in the amount of one percent (1%)
of all gross charges charged by the telecommunications retailer to service
addresses within the Village for telecommunications originating or received in
the Village.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Upon the effective date of the infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized in this Chapter, the Village infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized hereunder shall be the only fee or compensation for the use of all
public rights of way within the Village by telecommunications retailers.
Imposition of the infrastructure maintenance fee provided under this Chapter
does not, however, serve as a limitation on the levying of any taxes or
imposition of any fees otherwise authorized by law.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The Village telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized by this Section shall be collected, enforced, and administered as
set forth in Section
8-8-4 of this Chapter. (Ord. 97-9, 10-20-1997)
8-8-4: COLLECTION, ENFORCEMENT, AND ADMINISTRATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â A telecommunications retailer shall charge to and collect from each
customer an additional charge in an amount equal to the Village infrastructure
maintenance fee attributable to that customer's service address.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Unless otherwise approved by the Village Collector the infrastructure
maintenance fee shall be remitted by the telecommunications retailer to the
Village not later than the last day of the month subsequent to the month in
which a bill is issued to the customer; provided however, that the
telecommunications retailer may retain an amount not to exceed two percent (2%)
of the Village infrastructure maintenance fee collected by it to reimburse
itself for expenses incurred in accounting for and remitting the fee.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Remittance of the Municipal infrastructure fee to the Village shall be
accompanied by a return, in a form to be prescribed by the Village Collector
which shall contain such information as the Village Collector may reasonably
require.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Any infrastructure maintenance fee required to be collected pursuant to
this Chapter, and any such infrastructure maintenance fee collected by such
telecommunications retailer shall constitute a debt owed by the
telecommunications retailer to the Village. The charge imposed under subsection
A of this Section by the telecommunications retailer pursuant to this Chapter
shall constitute a debt of the purchaser to the telecommunications retailer who
provides such services until paid and, if unpaid, is recoverable at law in the
same manner as the original charge for such services.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â If it shall appear that an amount of infrastructure maintenance fee has
been paid that was not due under the provisions of this Chapter, whether as a
result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any infrastructure maintenance fee due, or to become due,
under this Chapter, from the telecommunications retailer who made the erroneous
payment; provided, however, the Village Collector may request and the
telecommunications retailer shall provide, written substantiation for such
credit. However, no claim for such credit may be made more than three (3) years
after the date of the erroneous payment, unless: 1) the credit is used only to
offset a claim of underpayment made by the Village within the applicable
statutory period of limitations, and 2) the credit derives from an overpayment
made by the same telecommunications retailer during the applicable statutory
period of limitations.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Amounts paid under this Chapter by telecommunications retailers shall
not be included in the tax base under any of the following acts as described
immediately below:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â "Gross charges" for purposes of the Telecommunications Excise Tax
Act;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â "Gross receipts" for purposes of the municipal utility tax as
prescribed in section
8-11-2 of the Illinois Municipal Code;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â "Gross charges" for purposes or the municipal telecommunications tax
as prescribed in section 8-11-17 of the Illinois Municipal Code;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â "Gross revenue" for the purposes of the tax on annual gross revenue
of public utilities as prescribed in section 2-202 of the Public Utilities Act.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â The Village shall have the right, in its discretion, to audit books and
records of all telecommunications retailers subject to this Chapter to
determine whether the telecommunications retailer has properly accounted to the
Village for the Village infrastructure maintenance fee. Any underpayment of the
amount of the Village infrastructure maintenance fee due to the Village by the
telecommunications retailer shall be paid to the Village plus five percent (5%)
of the total amount of the underpayment determined in an audit plus any costs
incurred by the Village in conducting the audit, in an amount not to exceed
five percent (5%) of the total amount of the underpayment determined in an
audit. Said sum shall be paid to the Village within twenty one (21) days after
the issuance of an invoice for same.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â The Village Collector, or his or her designee, may promulgate such
further or additional regulations concerning the administration and enforcement
of this Chapter consistent with its provisions, as may be required from time to
time and shall notify all telecommunications retailers that are registered
pursuant to Section
8-8-2 of this Chapter of such regulations. (Ord. 97-9, 10-20-1997)
8-8-5: COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS:
Nothing in this Chapter shall excuse any person or entity from obligations
imposed under any law, including, but not limited to:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Generally applicable taxes; and
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Standards for construction on, over, under or within, use or repair of
the public rights of way, including standards relating to freestanding towers
and other structures upon the public rights of way, as provided; and
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Any liability imposed for the failure to comply with such generally
applicable taxes or standards governing construction on, over, under, or
within, use of or repair of the public rights of way; and
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Compliance with any other ordinance or provision of this Code
concerning uses or structures not located on, over, or within the rights of
way. (Ord. 97-9, 10-20-1997)
8-8-6: EXISTING FRANCHISE AND LICENSES:
Any franchise, license, or similar agreements between telecommunications
retailers and the Village entered into before the effective date of this
Chapter regarding the use of public rights of way shall remain valid according
to and for their stated terms except for any fees, charges or other
compensation to the extent waived. (Ord. 97-9, 10-20-1997)
8-8-7: PENALTIES:
Any telecommunications provider who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be subject
to fine in accordance with the general penalty provisions of this Code. (Ord.
97-9, 10-20-1997)
8-8-8: ENFORCEMENT:
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the Village may have for enforcement of this Chapter.
(Ord. 97-9, 10-20-1997)
8-8-9: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
Chapter is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions hereof. (Ord. 97-9, 10-20-1997)
8-8-10: CONFLICT:
This Chapter supersedes all chapters, ordinances or parts of chapters or
ordinances adopted prior hereto which are in conflict herewith, to the extent
of such conflict. (Ord. 97-9, 10-20-1997)
8-8-11: WAIVER AND FEE IMPLEMENTATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The Village hereby waives all fees, charges, and other compensation
that may accrue after the effective date of the waiver, to the Village by a
telecommunications retailer, pursuant to any existing Village franchise,
license, or similar agreement with a telecommunications retailer during the
time the Village imposes the telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee.
This waiver shall only be effective during the time the infrastructure
maintenance fee provided for in this Chapter is subject to being lawfully
imposed on the telecommunications retailer and collected by the
telecommunications retailer from the customer.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The Village Clerk shall send a notice of the waiver by certified mail,
return receipt requested, to each telecommunications retailer with whom the
Village has a franchise.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The Village infrastructure maintenance fee provided for in this Chapter
shall become effective and imposed on the first day of the month not less than
ninety (90) days after the Village provides written notice by certified mail to
each telecommunications retailer with whom the Village has an existing
franchise, license or similar agreement that the Village waives all
compensation under such existing franchise, license or similar agreement during
such time as the fee is subject to being lawfully imposed and collected by the
retailer and remitted to the Village. The infrastructure maintenance fee shall
apply to gross charges billed on or after the effective date as established in
the preceding sentence. (Ord. 97-9, 10-20-1997)
CHAPTER 9
CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN RIGHTS-OF-WAY
SECTION:
8-9-1: Purpose And Scope
8-9-2: Definitions
8-9-3: Annual Registration Required
8-9-4: Permit Required; Applications And Fees
8-9-5: Action On Permit Applications
8-9-6: Effect Of Permit
8-9-7: Revised Permit Drawings
8-9-8: Insurance
8-9-9: Indemnification
8-9-10: Security
8-9-11: Permit Suspension And Revocation
8-9-12: Change Of Ownership Or Owner's Identity Or Legal Status
8-9-13: General Construction Standards
8-9-14: Traffic Control
8-9-15: Location Of Facilities
8-9-16: Construction Methods And Materials
8-9-17: Vegetation Control
8-9-18: Removal, Relocation, Or Modifications Of Utility Facilities
8-9-19: Cleanup And Restoration
8-9-20: Maintenance And Emergency Maintenance
8-9-21: Variances
8-9-22: Penalties
8-9-23: Enforcement
8-9-24: Small Cell Antennas, Personal Wireless Telecommunication Facilities,
And Towers In The Rights-Of-Way
8-9-24-1: Purpose
8-9-24-2: Definitions
8-9-24-3: Regulation Of Small Wireless Facilities
8-9-24-4: Collocation Requirements And Conditions
8-9-24-5: Application Fees
8-9-24-6: Exceptions To Applicability
8-9-24-7: Pre-Existing Agreements
8-9-24-8: Annual Recurring Rate
8-9-24-9: Abandonment
8-9-24-10: Dispute Resolution
8-9-24-11: Indemnification
8-9-24-12: Insurance
8-9-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights-of-way within the Village's
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the Village
rights-of-way and the Village as a whole.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Intent: In enacting this chapter, the Village intends to exercise its
authority over the rights-of-way in the Village and, in particular, the use of
the public ways and property by utilities, by establishing uniform standards to
address issues presented by utility facilities, including, without limitation:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
Village's utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights-of-way or
public property;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Protect against increased stormwater runoff due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Preserve open space, particularly the tree lined parkways that
characterize the Village's residential neighborhoods;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights-of-way; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Facilities Subject To This Chapter: This chapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights-
of-way within the jurisdiction of the Village. A facility lawfully established
prior to the effective date of this chapter may continue to be maintained,
repaired and operated by the utility as presently constructed and located,
except as may be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise, license or
similar agreement.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements: The Village, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the village
rights of way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the village enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the village may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with
this chapter.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Effect Of Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Utilities Other Than Telecommunications Providers: In the event that
a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise, license or
similar agreement with the village, such franchise, license or similar
agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement and any
lawful renewal or extension thereof.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Telecommunications Providers: In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the village and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Conflicts With Other Chapters: This chapter supersedes all chapters or
parts of chapters adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the
maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Sound Engineering Judgment: The village shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this chapter when the village so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the
village to regulate its rights of way for the protection of the public health,
safety and welfare. (Ord. 2008-06, 2-4-2008)
8-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter and unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the
words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
to it in 92 Illinois administrative code section 530.30, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
AASHTO: American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
ANSI: American National Standards Institute.
ASTM: American Society for Testing and Materials.
APPLICANT: A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
BACKFILL: The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a trench
or pit.
BORE OR BORING: To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the insertion
of a pipe or electrical conductor.
CABLE OPERATOR: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(5).
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(6).
CABLE SYSTEM: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(7).
CARRIER PIPE: The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be transported.
CASING: A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
CLEAR ZONE: The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a nonrecoverable slope, and a clear run out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO "Roadside
Design Guide".
COATING: Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
CODE: The municipal code of the village of Broadview.
CONDUCTOR: Wire carrying electrical current.
CONDUIT: A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
CONSTRUCTION OR CONSTRUCT: The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
COVER: The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
CROSSING FACILITY: A facility that crosses one or more right of way lines of a
right of way.
DIRECTIONAL BORING/HORIZONTAL DIRECTIONAL BORING: A trenchless method of
installing underground utilities such as pipe, conduit, or cables in a
relatively shallow arc or radius along a prescribed underground path using a
surface-launched drilling rig.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: The village director of public works or his or her
designee.
DISRUPT THE RIGHT OF WAY: For the purposes of this chapter, any work that
obstructs the right of way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right of way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
EMERGENCY: Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety of
the public using or in the vicinity of the right of way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
ENCASEMENT: Provision of a protective casing.
EQUIPMENT: Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
EXCAVATION: The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying bare
by digging.
EXTRA HEAVY PIPE: Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
FACILITY: All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including, but not
limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas, vaults,
boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits, grates,
covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances thereto) located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across, or within rights of way under this chapter. For
purposes of this chapter, the term "facility" shall not include any facility
owned or operated by the village.
FREESTANDING FACILITY: A facility that is not a crossing facility or a parallel
facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
FRONTAGE ROAD: Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent to
the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
village director of public works to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to
the life, health or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance
of the environment, including, but not limited to, explosives, radioactive
materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology
(biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be
hazardous or toxic under any federal or state law, statute or regulation.
HIGHWAY: A specific type of right of way used for vehicular traffic including
rural or urban roads or streets. "Highway" includes all highway land and
improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges, drainage
structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
HIGHWAY CODE: The Illinois highway code, 605 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101
et seq., as amended from time to time.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois cable and video
competition law, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
ICC: Illinois commerce commission.
IDOT: Illinois department of transportation.
JULIE: The joint utility locating information for excavators utility
notification program.
JACKING: Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means with
or without boring.
JETTING: Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to create
a cavity ahead of the pipe.
JOINT USE: The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two (2) or
more utilities.
MAJOR INTERSECTION: The intersection of two (2) or more major arterial
highways.
OCCUPANCY: The presence of facilities on, over or under right of way.
PARALLEL FACILITY: A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to the
centerline of a right of way.
PARKWAY: Any portion of the right of way not improved by street or sidewalk.
PAVEMENT CUT: The removal of an area of pavement for access to facility or for
the construction of a facility.
PERMITTEE: That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to sections
8-9-4 and
8-9-5 of this chapter.
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES: Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal slurry.
PRACTICABLE: That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than that
which is simply convenient.
PRESSURE: The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
PROMPT: That which is done within a period of time specified by the village. If
no time period is specified, the period shall be thirty (30) days.
PUBLIC ENTITY: A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal level.
RESTORATION: The repair of a right of way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
RIGHT OF WAY OR RIGHTS OF WAY: Any street, alley, other land or waterway,
dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar
purposes, including utility easements, in which the village has the right and
authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other
than those of the village. "Right of way" or "rights of way" shall not include
any real or personal village property that is not specifically described in the
previous two (2) sentences and shall not include village buildings, fixtures
and other structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated
in the right of way.
ROADWAY: That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
SECURITY FUND: That amount of security required pursuant to section
8-9-10 of this chapter.
SHOULDER: A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT: A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two-way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. "Private line" means a dedicated nontraffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
"Telecommunications" shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol
of the information for purposes other than transmission. "Telecommunications"
shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications
service provider for use as a component part of the service provided by such
provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end
to end communications. "Telecommunications" shall not include the provision of
cable services through a cable system as defined in the cable communications
act of 1984 (47 USC section 521 and following), as now or hereafter amended, or
cable or other programming services subject to an open video system fee payable
to the village through an open video system as defined in the rules of the
federal communications commission (47 CFR section 76.1500 and following), as
now or hereafter amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the right of way used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in making
sales of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
TRENCH: A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
UTILITY: The individual or entity owning or operating any "facility" as defined
in this section.
VENT: A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
VIDEO SERVICE: That term as defined in section 21-201 (v) of the Illinois cable
and video competition law of 2007, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 21-201(v).
VILLAGE: The village of Broadview.
WATER LINES: Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
WET BORING: Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material. (Ord. 2008-06, 2-
4-2008; amd. Ord. 2020-14, 4-6-2020)
8-9-3: ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Every utility that occupies right of way within the village shall register on
January 1 of each year with the director of public works, providing the
utility's name, address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers,
the name of one or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in
connection with emergencies involving the utility's facilities in the right of
way and a twenty four (24) hour telephone number for each such person, and
evidence of insurance as required in section
8-9-8 of this chapter, in the form of a certificate of insurance. (Ord. 2008-
06, 2-4-2008)
8-9-4: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Permit Required: No person shall construct (as defined in this chapter)
any facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within any village
right of way which: 1) changes the location of the facility, 2) adds a new
facility, 3) disrupts the right of way (as defined in this chapter), or 4)
materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by the facility on,
over, above, along, under, across or within the right of way, without first
filing an application with the village director of public works and obtaining a
permit from the village therefor, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
No permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of service
connections to customers' premises where there will be no disruption of the
right of way.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Permit Application: All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the village and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the village may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as "proprietary" or
"confidential" by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Minimum General Application Requirements: The application shall be made
by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at a
minimum, the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The utility's name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The applicant's name and address, if different than the utility, its
telephone and telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the village:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the "Illinois Manual
On Uniform Traffic Control Devices", to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the village and shall
promote protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with
ICC regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with
this section unless the village finds that additional information or assurances
are needed;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Evidence of insurance as required in section
8-9-8 of this chapter;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in section
8-9-10 of this chapter;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter (see section
8-9-21 of this chapter); and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
village.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Supplemental Application Requirements For Specific Types Of Utilities:
In addition to the requirements of subsection C of this section, the permit
application shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any "certificate of public
convenience and necessity" or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois environmental protection agency, division of public water supplies,
have been satisfied;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois environmental protection agency,
division of water pollution control and the metropolitan water reclamation
district, have been satisfied; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or types
of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the design
standard to be followed.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Applicant's Duty To Update Information: Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the village within thirty (30) days
after the change necessitating the amendment.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Application Fees: Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be accompanied by a fee in the amount of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00),
or as otherwise supplemented or amended from time to time by the village. No
application fee is required to be paid by any electricity utility that is
paying the municipal electricity infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the
electricity infrastructure maintenance fee act. (Ord. 2008-06, 2-4-2008)
8-9-5: ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Village Review Of Permit Applications: Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the village
director of public works within a reasonable time after filing. If the
application does not conform to the requirements of applicable ordinances,
codes, laws, rules, and regulations, the village director of public works shall
reject such application in writing, stating the reasons therefor. If the
village director of public works is satisfied that the proposed work conforms
to the requirements of this chapter and applicable ordinances, codes, laws,
rules, and regulations, the village director of public works shall cause the
building department to issue a permit therefor as soon as practicable. In all
instances, it shall be the duty of the applicant to demonstrate, to the
satisfaction of the village director of public works, that the construction
proposed under the application shall be in full compliance with the
requirements of this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Additional Village Review Of Applications Of Telecommunications
Retailers:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Pursuant to section 4 of the telephone company act, 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 65/4, a telecommunications retailer shall notify the village
that it intends to commence work governed by this chapter for facilities for
the provision of telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of
plans, specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the
purpose and intent of the facilities, and shall be provided by the
telecommunications retailer to the village not less than ten (10) days prior to
the commencement of work requiring no excavation and not less than thirty (30)
days prior to the commencement of work requiring excavation. The village
director of public works shall specify the portion of the right of way upon
which the facility may be placed, used and constructed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â In the event that the village director of public works fails to
provide such specification of location to the telecommunications retailer
within either: a) ten (10) days after service of notice to the village by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for
new construction or b) twenty five (25) days after service of notice by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new
construction, the telecommunications retailer may commence work without
obtaining a permit under this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Upon the provision of such specification by the village, where a
permit is required for work pursuant to section
8-9-4 of this chapter the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the
village an application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of subsection A of this
section.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Additional Village Review Of Applications Of Holders Of State
Authorization Under The Cable And Video Competition Law Of 2007: Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a state issued authorization under the cable
and video competition law of 2007 shall be deemed granted forty five (45) days
after submission to the village, unless otherwise acted upon by the village,
provided the holder has complied with applicable village codes, ordinances, and
regulations. (Ord. 2008-06, 2-4-2008; amd. Ord. CO-2023-15, 5-15-2023)
8-9-6: EFFECT OF PERMIT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Authority Granted; No Property Right Or Other Interest Created: A
permit from the village authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on village rights of way, and does
not create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon
the rights of others who may have an interest in the rights of way.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Duration: No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a
period longer than six (6) months unless construction is actually begun within
that period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Preconstruction Meeting Required: No construction shall begin pursuant
to a permit issued under this chapter prior to attendance by the permittee and
all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any work under the
permit at a preconstruction meeting. The preconstruction meeting shall be held
at a date, time and place designated by the village with such village
representatives in attendance as the village deems necessary. The meeting shall
be for the purpose of reviewing the work under the permit, and reviewing
special considerations necessary in the areas where work will occur, including,
without limitation, presence or absence of other utility facilities in the area
and their locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other utilities, use of
rights of way by the public during construction, and access and egress by
adjacent property owners.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Compliance With All Laws Required: The issuance of a permit by the
village does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of
the village and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations.
(Ord. 2008-06, 2-4-2008)
8-9-7: REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS:
In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the village within ninety (90)
days after the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans
shall specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities
deviate from the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the
permit also deviates from the requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated
as a request for variance in accordance with section
8-9-21 of this chapter. If the village denies the request for a variance, then
the permittee shall either remove the facility from the right of way or modify
the facility so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or
plans therefor. (Ord. 2008-06, 2-4-2008)
8-9-8: INSURANCE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Required Coverages And Limits: Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license, or similar agreement, each utility occupying right of way or
constructing any facility in the right of way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the village, and its elected and appointed officers, officials,
agents, and employees as additional insureds on the policies listed in
subsections A1 and A2 of this section:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and, underground hazard (commonly referred to
as "X", "C", and "U" coverages) and products-completed operations coverage with
limits not less than:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death
to each person;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Automobile liability for owned, nonowned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal
injury and property damage for each accident;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Workers' compensation with statutory limits; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per employee and per accident.
If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the contractors and
subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and subcontractors
shall comply with this section.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Excess Or Umbrella Policies: The coverages required by this section may
be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies. Any excess or
umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Copies Required: The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the village within ten (10) days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the village.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Maintenance And Renewal Of Required Coverages: The insurance policies
required by this section shall contain the following endorsement:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor the
intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after receipt by the
Village, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of a
written notice addressed to the Village President of such intent to cancel or
not to renew.
Within ten (10) days after receipt by the village of said notice, and in no
event later than ten (10) days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall
obtain and furnish to the village evidence of replacement insurance policies
meeting the requirements of this section.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Self-Insurance: A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by subsection A of this
section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under subsection A of this section, or the requirements of subsections
B, C and D of this section. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide
to the village evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to
self-insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements required under
subsection A of this section, such as evidence that the utility is a "private
self-insurer" under the workers' compensation act.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Effect Of Insurance And Self-Insurance On Utility's Liability: The
legal liability of the utility to the village and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Insurance Companies: All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the state of Illinois.
All insurance carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated "A-" or better
and of a class size "X" or higher by A.M. Best Company. (Ord. 2008-06, 2-4-
2008)
8-9-9: INDEMNIFICATION:
By occupying or constructing facilities in the right of way, a utility shall be
deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the village and its elected and
appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights of way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license, or similar agreement;
provided, however, that the utility's indemnity obligations hereunder shall not
apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses
arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach of this
chapter by the village, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives. (Ord. 2008-06, 2-4-2008)
8-9-10: SECURITY:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Purpose: The permittee shall establish a security fund in a form and in
an amount as set forth in this section. The security fund shall be continuously
maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee's sole cost and
expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit. The
security fund shall serve as security for:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements of
this chapter;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the village occasioned
by the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations,
orders, permits and other directives of the village issued pursuant to this
chapter; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the village may pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by permittee in violation of this chapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform that the village must perform itself or
have completed as a consequence solely of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the village from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter or any other applicable law.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Form: The permittee shall provide the security fund to the village in
the form, at the permittee's election, of cash, a surety bond in a form
acceptable to the village, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form
acceptable to the village. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided
pursuant to this subsection shall, at a minimum:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
village and the permittee;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the village of any amounts covered by it; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Shall provide a location convenient to the village and within the
state of Illinois at which it can be drawn.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Amount: The dollar amount of the security fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right of way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the village director of public works, and may also
include reasonable, directly related costs that the village estimates are
likely to be incurred if the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where
the construction of facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in
phases in multiple locations in the village, with each phase consisting of
construction of facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and
where construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the village director
of public works may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee
to post a single amount of security which shall be applicable to each phase of
the construction under the permit. The amount of the security fund for phased
construction shall be equal to the greatest amount that would have been
required under the provisions of this subsection for any single phase.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Withdrawals: The village, upon fourteen (14) days' advance written
notice clearly stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal
rights under this subsection, may withdraw an amount from the security fund,
provided that the permittee has not reimbursed the village for such amount
within the fourteen (14) day notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the
permittee:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Fails to reimburse the village for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the village has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or nonperformance by the permittee; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the village
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the security fund.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Replenishment: Within fourteen (14) days after receipt of written
notice from the village that any amount has been withdrawn from the security
fund, the permittee shall restore the security fund to the amount specified in
subsection C of this section.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Interest: The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the security fund be returned to the permittee by the village,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the village, provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the security fund below the minimum balance required
in subsection C of this section.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Closing And Return Of Security Fund: Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the security fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the village for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the security fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the village to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the village as a result of said revocation, provided
that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to
the permittee.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Rights Not Limited: The rights reserved to the village with respect to
the security fund are in addition to all other rights of the village, whether
reserved by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding or exercise of right with respect to said security fund shall affect
any other right the village may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
village shall not be entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any
of its rights which may be infringed or otherwise violated. (Ord. 2008-06, 2-4-
2008)
8-9-11: PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Village Right To Revoke Permit: The village may revoke or suspend a
permit issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following
reasons:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Noncompliance with this chapter;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights of way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Notice Of Revocation Or Suspension: The village shall send written
notice of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this
chapter stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Permittee Alternatives Upon Receipt Of Notice Of Revocation Or
Suspension: Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the village, the permittee shall have the following options:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Immediately provide the village with evidence that no cause exists
for the revocation or suspension;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the village, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the village within five (5) working days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across, or within the rights of way and restore the rights of way
to the satisfaction of the village providing written proof of such removal to
the village within ten (10) days after receipt of the written notice of
revocation.
The village may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the time
periods provided in this subsection.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Stop Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the village may issue a stop work order immediately upon
discovery of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within subsection A of
this section.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Failure Or Refusal Of The Permittee To Comply: If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of subsection C of this section, the village or
its designee may, at the option of the village: 1) correct the deficiencies; 2)
upon not less than twenty (20) days' notice to the permittee, remove the
subject facilities or equipment; or 3) after not less than thirty (30) days'
notice to the permittee of failure to cure the noncompliance, deem them
abandoned and property of the village. The permittee shall be liable in all
events to the village for all costs of removal. (Ord. 2008-06, 2-4-2008)
8-9-12: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER'S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Notification Of Change: A utility shall notify the village no less than
thirty (30) days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the
right of way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility
or the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right of way.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Amended Permit: A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the village's right
of way.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Insurance And Bonding: All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer. (Ord. 2008-06,
2-4-2008)
8-9-13: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Standards And Principles: All construction in the right of way shall be
consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, and
commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction principles,
sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles and standards
set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from time to time:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction";
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â "Supplemental Specifications And Recurring Special Provisions";
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â "Highway Design Manual";
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â "Highway Standards Manual";
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â "Standard Specifications For Traffic Control Items";
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" (92 Ill. adm.
code section 545);
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â "Flagger's Handbook"; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â "Work Site Protection Manual For Daylight Maintenance Operations".
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Interpretation Of Municipal Standards And Principles: If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the village director of public works shall determine, in the exercise
of sound engineering judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall
be final. If requested, the village director of public works shall state which
standard or principle will apply to the construction, maintenance, or operation
of a facility in the future. (Ord. 2008-06, 2-4-2008)
8-9-14: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Minimum Requirements: The village's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control
Devices" and this code.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Warning Signs, Protective Devices, And Flaggers: The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable federal, state, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the rights of way.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Interference With Traffic: All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Notice When Access Is Blocked: At least forty eight (48) hours prior to
beginning work that will partially or completely block access to any residence,
business or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or
institution of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work;
provided, however, that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to
section
8-9-20 of this chapter, the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable
under the circumstances.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Compliance: The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the village. (Ord. 2008-06, 2-4-2008)
8-9-15: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â General Requirements: In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this subsection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No Interference With Village Facilities: No utility facilities shall
be placed in any location if the village director of public works determines
that the proposed location will require the relocation or displacement of any
of the village's utility facilities or will otherwise interfere with the
operation or maintenance of any of the village's utility facilities.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Minimum Interference And Impact: The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right of way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right of
way.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â No Interference With Travel: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right of way.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â No Limitations On Visibility: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right of way.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Size Of Utility Facilities: The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals, and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Parallel Facilities Located Within Highways:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Overhead Parallel Facilities: An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Lines are located as near as practicable to the right of way line
and as nearly parallel to the right of way line as reasonable pole alignment
will permit;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable from
the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (2') (0.6 m) behind the face of
the curb, where available;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (4') (1.2 m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Any ground mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (1')
(0.3 m) of the right of way line or as near as possible to the right of way
line.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Underground Parallel Facilities: An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The facility is located as near the right of way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (8') (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right of way line;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right of way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (5') (1.5 m) from the right of way line and any above
grounded appurtenance shall be located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the
right of way line or as near as practicable.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Facilities Crossing Highways:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No Future Disruption: The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of village highways
may require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement
or additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Cattle Passes, Culverts, Or Drainage Facilities: Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts, or drainage facilities.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Ninety Degree Crossing Required: Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a ninety degree (90Â°) angle to the centerline as practicable.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Overhead Power Or Communication Facility: An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC's
rules entitled, "construction of electric power and communication lines" (83
Ill. adm. code 305);
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Poles are located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of
way line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Underground Power Or Communication Facility: An underground power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance free service life; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Markers: The village may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right of way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations (49 CFR section 192.707
(1989)).
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Facilities To Be Located Within Particular Rights Of Way: The village
may require that facilities be located within particular rights of way that are
not highways, rather than within particular highways.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Freestanding Facilities:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The village may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right of way.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The village may require any freestanding facility located within a
right of way to be screened from view.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Facilities Installed Aboveground: Aboveground facilities may be
installed only if:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â New underground installation is not technically feasible; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Facility Attachments To Bridges Or Roadway Structures:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â The proposed method of attachment;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Appearance Standards:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The village may prohibit the installation of facilities in
particular locations in order to preserve visual quality.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right of way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed. (Ord. 2008-
06, 2-4-2008)
8-9-16: CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Construction
Methods:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Boring Or Jacking:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Pits And Shoring: Boring or jacking under rights of way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the village
director of public works from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or
jacking shall be excavated no more than forty eight (48) hours in advance of
boring or jacking operations and backfilled within forty eight (48) hours after
boring or jacking operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be
clearly marked and protected by barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected,
supported, braced, and maintained so that it will safely support all vertical
and lateral loads that may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking
operation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Wet Boring Or Jetting: Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Borings With Diameters Greater Than Six Inches: Borings over six
inches (6") (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and
following pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside
diameter of the following pipe by more than one inch (1") (25 mm).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Borings With Diameters Six Inches Or Less: Borings of six inches
(6") or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with
auger, or auger and following pipe method.
Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Directional Boring/Horizontal Boring: Direction boring/horizontal
boring shall not be permitted in the rights-of-way unless approved, in writing,
by the Public Works Director or unless otherwise required by law or easement.
Any party desiring to conduct directional boring/horizontal boring under the
rights-of-way shall be required to obtain a permit from the Building
Department. The cost of said permit shall be one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00) if the plans are reviewed by the Village. If a third-party must
review the plans, the permit fee will be fifty dollars ($50.00) plus the costs
for the third-party review. The requester of the permit shall be required to
consent to the third-party costs and the Village will provide an estimate of
said costs. Further, as a condition of their permit, the requester shall be
required to have an inspector on site during the act of directional boring/
horizontal boring. The inspector shall be retained by the Village however, the
costs of said inspection shall be paid by the party desiring to use directional
boring/horizontal boring. Said party shall further be required to deposit with
the Village a bond or note to cover the costs of said inspector. Said party
shall further provide detailed plans and drawings related to the proposed
directional boring/horizontal boring when submitting any request for a permit
and shall be available to meet and confer with the Public Works Director or
designee, the Building Commissioner or designee, and the Village's inspector
related to the permit requested and any plans and drawings submitted.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Tree Preservation: Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the village to be preserved or protected shall be bored
under or around the root system.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Trenching: Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights of way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of section 603 of IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction".
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Length: The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe/line testing. Only
one-half (1/2) of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless
special permission is obtained from the village director of public works.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Open Trench And Excavated Material: Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by chapter 6 of the "Illinois
Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices". Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right of way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off road location.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Drip Line Of Trees: The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the village to be preserved.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Backfilling:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's "Standard Specifications For
Road And Bridge Construction". When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â For a period of three (3) years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the director of public works, the utility, at its expense, shall
remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the installed facility,
place and properly compact new backfill material, and restore new pavement,
sidewalk, curbs, and driveways to the proper grades, as determined by the
director of public works.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Pavement Cuts: Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this subsection A4 is
permitted under section
8-9-21 of this chapter, the following requirements shall apply:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted
as soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as
designated by the director of public works.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the village.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â All saw cuts shall be full depth.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â For all rights of way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven (7) years, or resurfaced in the last
three (3) years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to
be an emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before
the time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
JULIE locate.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Encasement:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
village.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of way line. No aboveground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or village approved
jointed pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is
installed prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or
mechanical joints are of a type approved by the village. Bell and spigot type
pipe shall be encased regardless of installation method.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â In the case of gas pipelines of sixty (60) psig or less,
encasement may be eliminated.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines with
installations of more than sixty (60) psig, encasement may be eliminated only
if: 1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair and
2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right of way.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Minimum Cover Of Underground Facilities: Cover shall be provided and
maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for minimum
cover for the type of facility:
Â 
Type Of Facility                         Minimum Cover
Electric lines                           30 inches (0.8 m)
Communication, cable or video service    18 to 24 inches (0.46 m to 0.6 m, as
lines                                    determined by village)
Gas or petroleum products                30 inches (0.8 m)
Water line                               Sufficient cover to provide freeze
                                         protection
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or drainage Sufficient cover to provide freeze
line                                     protection
Â 
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Facilities:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Electric Power Or Communication Lines:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Code Compliance: Electric power or communications facilities
within village rights of way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Illinois administrative code part 305
(formerly general order 160 of the Illinois commerce commission) entitled
"rules for construction of electric power and communications lines", and the
national electrical safety code.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Overhead Facilities: Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guywires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Underground Facilities:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if: a) the crossing is installed by the use of "moles", "whip augers", or
other approved methods which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation or b) the installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the national
electrical safety code.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Burial Of Drops: All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snow drops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the village. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snow drops, within ten (10) business days
after placement.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Underground Facilities Other Than Electric Power Or Communication
Lines: Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The use of "moles", "whip augers", or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is not
possible by other means.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Gas Transmission, Distribution And Service: Gas pipelines within
rights of way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a village
approved manner and in conformance with the federal code of the office of
pipeline safety operations, department of transportation, part 192 -
transportation of natural and other gas by pipeline: minimum federal safety
standards (49 CFR section 192), IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And
Bridge Construction", and all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Petroleum Products Pipelines: Petroleum products pipelines within
rights of way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI standard code
for pressure piping (liquid petroleum transportation piping systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Water Lines, Sanitary Sewer Lines, Storm Water Sewer Lines Or
Drainage Lines: Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and
drainage lines within rights of way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In
Illinois".
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Ground Mounted Appurtenances: Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right of way, shall
be provided with a vegetation free area extending one foot (1') (305 mm) in
width beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation free area may
be provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the director of public works. With the approval of
the director of public works, shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be
used in place of vegetation free area. The housing for ground mounted
appurtenances shall be painted a neutral color to blend with the surroundings.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Materials:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â General Standards: The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights of way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", the requirements of the
Illinois commerce commission, or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Material Storage On Right Of Way: No material shall be stored on the
right of way without the prior written approval of the village director of
public works. When such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles,
cross arms, or other materials shall be distributed along the right of way
prior to and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public
or an obstacle to right of way maintenance or damage to the right of way and
other property. If material is to be stored on right of way, prior approval
must be obtained from the village.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Hazardous Materials: The plans submitted by the utility to the
village shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the
construction of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Operational Restrictions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Construction operations on rights of way may, at the discretion of
the village, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right of way or other
property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â These restrictions may be waived by the director of public works
when emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The hours of construction are from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to
seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. unless otherwise permitted by the village.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Location Of Existing Facilities: Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the village shall contact JULIE and ascertain the presence and
location of existing aboveground and underground facilities within the rights
of way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The village will make its
permit records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the village or
by JULIE, a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities
within forty eight (48) hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance
with the Illinois underground facilities damage prevention act 1 . (Ord. 2008-
06, 2-4-2008; amd. Ord. 2020-14, 4-6-2020; Ord. 2021-09, 6-21-2021; Ord. CO-
2021-14, 10-18-2021; Ord. CO-2023-15, 5-15-2023)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.
8-9-17: VEGETATION CONTROL:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Electric Utilities; Compliance With State Laws And Regulations: An
electric utility shall conduct all tree trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right of way in accordance with applicable Illinois laws and
regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the village as permitted by law.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Other Utilities; Tree Trimming Permit Required: Tree trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right of way and that is not
performed pursuant to applicable Illinois laws and regulations specifically
governing same, shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition
to any other permit required under this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Application For Tree Trimming Permit: Applications for tree trimming
permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by competent
workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Damage To Trees: Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The village will
require compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed
without authorization. The formula developed by the International Society of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The village may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Specimen Trees Or Trees Of Special Significance: The village may
require that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of
special significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side
arm extensions, covered wire or other means.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Chemical Use:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Except as provided in the following subsection, no utility shall
spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or vegetation
in the village for any purpose, including the control of growth, insects or
disease.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Spraying of any type of brush killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights of way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the director of public works that such spraying is the only practicable
method of vegetation control. (Ord. 2008-06, 2-4-2008)
8-9-18: REMOVAL, RELOCATION, OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Notice: Within ninety (90) days following written notice from the
village, a utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any
utility facilities within the rights of way whenever the corporate authorities
have determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is
reasonably necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation
of any village improvement in or upon, or the operations of the village in or
upon, the rights of way.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the village, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains
any unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights of way
shall, at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or
appurtenances from the rights of way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to
removal in the following circumstances:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior grant
of a license or franchise, if required;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Facilities: The village retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights of
way of the village, as the village may determine to be necessary, appropriate
or useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If
circumstances permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if
known, prior to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if
known, after cutting or removing a facility.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Abandonment Of Facilities: Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights of way of the village, the utility shall notify the village within
ninety (90) days. Following receipt of such notice the village may direct the
utility to remove all or any portion of the facility if the village director of
public works determines that such removal will be in the best interest of the
public health, safety and welfare. In the event that the village does not
direct the utility that abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice
of abandonment to the village, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to
consent to the alteration or removal of all or any portion of the facility by
another utility or person. (Ord. 2008-06, 2-4-2008)
8-9-19: CLEANUP AND RESTORATION:
The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and terrain
and other property within ten (10) days after any portion of the rights of way
are disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to construction or maintenance by the
utility, all to the satisfaction of the village. This includes restoration of
entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using
materials and methods approved by the village director of public works. Such
cleanup and repair may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading,
reseeding, resodding, or any other requirement to restore the right of way to a
condition substantially equivalent to that which existed prior to the
commencement of the project. The time period provided in this section may be
extended by the village director of public works for good cause shown. (Ord.
2008-06, 2-4-2008)
8-9-20: MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â General: Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights of way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the village and at the utility's expense.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Emergency Maintenance Procedures: Emergencies may justify noncompliance
with normal procedures for securing a permit:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right of way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right of way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
village director of public works or his or her duly authorized agent of the
emergency, informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection
of the traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary
repairs. If the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free
movement of traffic, the village police shall be notified immediately.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to complete
repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to the
traveling public.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Emergency Repairs: The utility must file in writing with the village a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right of way within forty eight
(48) hours after an emergency repair. (Ord. 2008-06, 2-4-2008)
8-9-21: VARIANCES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Request For Variance: A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the village director
of public works as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify
each provision of this chapter from which a variance is requested and the
reasons why a variance should be granted.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Authority To Grant Variances: The village director of public works
shall decide whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this
chapter identified in the variance request on an individual basis.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Conditions For Granting Of Variance: The village director of public
works may authorize a variance only if the utility requesting the variance has
demonstrated that:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such as
terrain features or an irregular right of way line) create a special hardship
that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the public
purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Additional Conditions For Granting Of A Variance: As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the Village Director of Public Works may require the
utility requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions
that may or may not be expressly contained within this chapter but which carry
out the purposes of this chapter.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Right To Appeal: Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the Village
Director of Public Works under the provisions of this chapter shall have the
right to appeal to the Village Board, or such other board or commission as it
may designate. The application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the
Village Clerk within thirty (30) days after the date of such order,
requirement, decision or determination. The Village Board shall commence its
consideration of the appeal at the Board's next regularly scheduled meeting
occurring at least seven (7) days after the filing of the appeal. The Village
Board shall timely decide the appeal. (Ord. 2008-06, 2-4-2008)
8-9-22: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to fine in accordance
with the penalty provisions of this Code. There may be times when the Village
will incur delay or other costs, including third party claims, because the
utility will not or cannot perform its duties under its permit and this
chapter. Unless the utility shows that another allocation of the cost of
undertaking the requested action is appropriate, the utility shall bear the
Village's costs of damages and its costs of installing, maintaining, modifying,
relocating, or removing the facility that is the subject of the permit. No
other administrative agency or commission may review or overrule a permit
related cost apportionment of the Village. Sanctions may be imposed upon a
utility that does not pay the costs apportioned to it. (Ord. 2008-06, 2-4-2008)
8-9-23: ENFORCEMENT:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the Village may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-06, 2-4-2008)
8-9-24: SMALL CELL ANTENNAS, PERSONAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES,
AND TOWERS IN THE RIGHTS-OF-WAY:
The intent of this section
8-9-24 is to provide comprehensive regulations related to the regulation of
small cell antennas, personal wireless facilities and towers in the right-of-
way. To the extent that this section
8-9-24 conflicts with other sections of this Code, including, but not limited
to, this chapter, this section
8-9-24 shall control. Where this section
8-9-24 is silent, this chapter, and the other applicable provisions of this
Code shall control. (Ord. 2018-19, 8-6-2018)
8-9-24-1:  PURPOSE:
The purpose of Section
8-9-24 is to establish regulations, standards and procedures for the siting and
collocation of small wireless facilities on rights-of-way within the Village's
jurisdiction, or outside the rights-of-way on property zoned by the Village
exclusively for commercial or industrial use, in a manner that is consistent
with the Act.
Section
8-9-24 supersedes all ordinances or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto
that are in conflict herewith, to the extent of such conflict.
In the event that applicable federal or state laws or regulations conflict with
the requirements of Section
8-9-24, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of Section
8-9-24 to the maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws
or regulations. (Ord. 2018-19, 8-6-2018; amd. Ord. 2021- 10, 7-6-2021)
8-9-24-2:  DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of Section
8-9-24, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
ANTENNA:       Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic radio frequency
               signals used in the provision of wireless services.
APPLICABLE     The uniform building, fire, electrical, plumbing, or mechanical codes adopted by a
CODES:         recognized national code organization or local amendments to those codes, including
               the National Electric Safety Code.
APPLICANT:     Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
               A request submitted by an applicant to the Village for a permit to collocate small
APPLICATION:   wireless facilities, and a request that includes the installation of a new utility
               pole for such collocation, as well as any applicable fee for the review of such
               application.
COLLOCATE or   To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or replace wireless facilities on or
COLLOCATION:   adjacent to a wireless support structure or utility pole.
               Cable service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(6), as amended; information service, as
COMMUNICATIONS defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(24), as amended; telecommunications service, as defined in
SERVICE:       47 U.S.C. 153(53), as amended; mobile service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(53), as
               amended; or wireless service other than mobile service.
COMMUNICATIONS A cable operator, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(5), as amended; a provider of
SERVICE        information service, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(24), as amended; a
PROVIDER:      telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 U.S.C. 153(51), as amended; or a
               wireless provider.
FCC:           The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
FEE:           A one-time charge.
               A building, property, or site, or group of buildings, properties, or sites that are
               either:
               Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Listed in the National Register of Historic Places or formally determined
               eligible for listing by the Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has
HISTORIC       been delegated the authority by the federal agency to list properties and determine
DISTRICT or    their eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with Section VI.D.1.a.i
HISTORIC       through Section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement codified at 47
LANDMARK:      CFR Part 1, Appendix C; or
               Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Designated as a locally landmarked building, property, site, or historic
               district by an ordinance adopted by the Village pursuant to a preservation program
               that meets the requirements of the Certified Local Government Program of the
               Illinois State Historic Preservation Office or where such certification of the
               preservation program by the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office is pending.
LAW:           A federal or state statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order, or local
               ordinance or resolution.
               Transfer of existing facilities, replacement of a pole, complete removal of any pole
               replaced, or any other changes required to accommodate the attachment of the
               facilities of the party requesting attachment to the pole. Make-ready work shall be
MAKE-READY     authorized under a permit issued pursuant to Section
WORK:          8-9-24 provided, however, any make-ready work outside of a fifty (50) foot perimeter
               from the base of the pole shall require a separate permit (for example, right of way
               permit, electrical permit, fiber permit and any other applicable permits) and shall
               not be covered by any permits issued pursuant to Section
               8-9-24.
MICRO WIRELESS A small wireless facility that is not larger in dimension than twenty-four inches
FACILITY:      (24â€) in length, fifteen inches (15â€) in width, and twelve inches (12â€) in height
               and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than eleven inches (11â€).
MUNICIPAL      A utility pole owned or operated by the Village in public rights-of-way.
UTILITY POLE:
PERMIT:        A written authorization required by the Village to perform an action or initiate,
               continue, or complete a project.
PERSON:        An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association,
               trust, or other entity or organization.
               The functional division of the federal government, the State, a unit of local
PUBLIC SAFETY  government, or a special purpose district located in whole or in part within the
AGENCY:        State of Illinois, that provides or has authority to provide firefighting, police,
               ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to respond to and manage emergency
               incidents.
RATE:          A recurring charge.
               The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway, street, public sidewalk,
RIGHT-OF-WAY:  alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible use. Right-of-way does not
               include Village-owned aerial lines.
               A wireless facility that meets both of the following qualifications:
               Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six (6) cubic
               feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements, the antenna
               and all of its exposed elements could fit within an imaginary enclosure of no more
               than six (6) cubic feet; and
SMALL WIRELESS Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â All other wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated
FACILITY:      with the facility is cumulatively no more than twenty-five (25) cubic feet in
               volume. The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in
               the calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements,
               telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding equipment,
               power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for the connection of
               power and other services.
               A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part by a communications
UTILITY POLE:  service provider or for electric distribution, lighting, traffic control, or a
               similar function.
               Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless communications between user
               equipment and a communications network, including:
               Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Equipment associated with wireless communications; and
               Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and
               backup power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological
WIRELESS       configuration.
FACILITY:      Wireless facility includes small wireless facilities. Wireless facility does not
               include:
               Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The structure or improvements on, under, or within which the equipment is
               collocated; or
               Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber optic cable that is between
               wireless support structures or utility poles or coaxial, or fiber optic cable that
               is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or directly associated with an antenna.
               Any person authorized to provide telecommunications service in the State of Illinois
WIRELESS       that builds or installs wireless communication transmission equipment, wireless
INFRASTRUCTURE facilities, wireless support structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless
PROVIDER:      services provider but is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services
               provider for the application submitted to the Village.
WIRELESS       A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services provider.
PROVIDER:
               Any services provided to the general public, including a particular class of
WIRELESS       customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis using licensed or
SERVICES:      unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile, provided using wireless
               facilities.
WIRELESS
SERVICES       A person who provides wireless services.
PROVIDER:
WIRELESS       A freestanding structure, such as a monopole; tower, either guyed or self-
SUPPORT        supporting; billboard; or other existing or proposed structure designed to support
STRUCTURE:     or capable of supporting wireless facilities. Wireless support structure does not
               include a utility pole. (Ord. 2018-19, 8-6-2018; amd. Ord. CO-2021-10, 7- 6-2021)
Â 
8-9-24-3:  REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Permitted Use. Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
paragraph (I) regarding Height Exceptions or Variances, but not subject to
zoning review or approval if they are collocated (i) in rights-of-way in any
zoning district, or (ii) outside rights-of-way in property zoned exclusively
for commercial or industrial use.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Permit Required. An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from the
Village to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be
received and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following
conditions and requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Application Requirements. A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the Village, together with the Village's Small Cell
Facilities Permit Application, if created, as a condition of any permit
application to collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or
wireless support structure:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Site specific structural integrity and, for a municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer, as
that term is defined in Section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Certification that the collocation complies with the Collocation
Requirements and Conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant's
knowledge; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the Village, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Application Process. The Village shall process applications as
follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The first completed application shall have priority over
applications received by different applicants for collocation on the same
utility pole or wireless support structure.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â All applicants shall meet and confer with Village officials
regarding the placement of any proposed new or replacement poles and proposed
small wireless facility sites and shall consider any concerns regarding safety
and traffic concerns related to the placement of said new or replacement poles
and proposed small wireless facility sites. However, the Village officials
shall not unreasonably delay said meeting and further shall not withhold
approval of a permit authorized under Section
8-9-24 unless permitted by law.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â An application to collocate a small wireless facility on an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or replacement of an
existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the Village fails to
approve or deny the application within ninety (90) days after the submission of
a completed application.
However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the Village in writing of its
intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than seventy-five (75)
days after the submission of a completed application.
The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the ninetieth day after
submission of the complete application or the tenth day after the receipt of
the deemed approved notice by the Village. The receipt of the deemed approved
notice shall not preclude the Village's denial of the permit request within the
time limits as provided under Section
8-9-24.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â An application to collocate a small wireless facility that
includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be processed on a
nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the Village fails to approve or
deny the application within one hundred and twenty (120) days after the
submission of a completed application.
However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted activity on a
deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the Village in writing of its
intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than one hundred and
five (105) days after the submission of a completed application.
The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the one hundred and
twentieth day after submission of the complete application or the tenth day
after the receipt of the deemed approved notice by the Village. The receipt of
the deemed approved notice shall not preclude the Village's denial of the
permit request within the time limits as provided under Section
8-9-24.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â The Village shall deny an application which does not meet the
requirements of Section
8-9-24.
If the Village determines that applicable codes, ordinances or regulations that
concern public safety, or the Collocation Requirements and Conditions contained
herein require that the utility pole or wireless support structure be replaced
before the requested collocation, approval shall be conditioned on the
replacement of the utility pole or wireless support structure at the cost of
the provider.
The Village shall document the basis for a denial, including the specific code
provisions or application conditions on which the denial is based, and send the
documentation to the applicant on or before the day the Village denies an
application.
The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the Village and resubmit
the revised application once within thirty (30) days after notice of denial is
sent to the applicant without paying an additional application fee. The Village
shall approve or deny the revised application within thirty (30) days after the
applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure to
resubmit the revised application within thirty (30) days of denial shall
require the applicant to submit a new application with applicable fees, and
recommencement of the Village's review period.
The applicant must notify the Village in writing of its intention to proceed
with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, which may be submitted
with the revised application.
Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the deficiencies cited
in the denial. However, this revised application does not apply if the cure
requires the review of a new location, new or different structure to be
collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment associated with the
small wireless facility.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Pole Attachment Agreement. Within 30 days after an approved
permit to collocate a small wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the
Village and the applicant shall enter into a Master Pole Attachment Agreement,
provided by the Village or its attorney for the initial collocation on a
municipal utility pole by the applicant. For subsequent approved permits to
collocate on a small wireless facility on a municipal utility pole, the Village
and the applicant shall enter into a License Supplement of the Master Pole
Attachment Agreement as well as any other documents or agreements required by
the Village.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Completeness of Application. Within 30 days after receiving an
application, the Village shall determine whether the application is complete
and notify the applicant. If an application is incomplete, the Village must
specifically identify the missing information. An application shall be deemed
complete if the Village fails to provide notification to the applicant within
30 days after all documents, information and fees specifically enumerated in
the Village's permit application form are submitted by the applicant to the
Village.
Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the Village sends the notice of
incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing information.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Tolling. The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â An express written agreement by both the applicant and the
Village; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â A local, state or federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Consolidated Applications. An applicant seeking to collocate small
wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the Village shall be allowed, at
the applicant's discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a
single permit for the collocation of up to twenty-five (25) small wireless
facilities if the collocations each involve substantially the same type of
small wireless facility and substantially the same type of structure.
If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities, the Village may
remove small wireless facility collocations from the application and treat
separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The Village may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Duration of Permits. The duration of a permit shall be for a period
of not less than five (5) years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent
durations unless the Village makes a finding that the small wireless facilities
or the new or modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable Village
codes or any provision, condition or requirement contained in Section
8-9-24.
If the Act is repealed as provided in Section 90 therein, renewals of permits
shall be subject to the applicable Village code provisions or regulations in
effect at the time of renewal.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Means of Submitting Applications. Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the Village by personal
delivery at the Village's designated place of business, by regular mail
postmarked on the date due or by any other commonly used means, including
electronic mail. (Ord. CO-2021-10, 7-6-2021)
8-9-24-4:  COLLOCATION REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Public Safety Space Reservation. The Village may reserve space on
municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the Village's
electric utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the Village reasonably
determines that the municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Installation and Maintenance. The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of Section
8-9-24. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contractors that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
As a condition of any permit under this section, the wireless provider shall
provide written notice by door hangers or flyers delivered to all buildings
and/or building entrances within fifty feet (50â€™) of the proposed installation,
modification, repair, or maintenance work at least forty-eight (48) hours in
advance unless said advance written notice is not practicable due to an
emergency.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â No interference with public safety communication frequencies. The
wireless provider's operation of the small wireless facilities shall not
interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for public safety
communications.
A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of the type and
frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a public safety
agency's communications equipment.
Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in accordance with
industry standards and the FCC's regulations addressing unacceptable
interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum licensed by a
public safety agency.
If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the wireless
provider has been given written notice of the interference by the public safety
agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy the
interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR
90.675.
The Village may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility based on such
interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with the Code of
Federal Regulations cited in the previous paragraph. Failure to remedy the
interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Prohibited collocations. The wireless provider shall not collocate
small wireless facilities on Village utility poles that are part of an electric
distribution or transmission system within the communication worker safety zone
of the pole or the electric supply zone of the pole.
However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless facility may
be located in the communications space on the Village utility pole and on the
top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless provider
complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
For purposes of this subparagraph, the terms "communications space",
"communication worker safety zone", and "electric supply zone" have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Compliance with codes. The wireless provider shall comply with all
applicable codes and local code provisions or regulations that concern public
safety.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Compliance with design standards. The wireless provider shall comply
with written design standards that are generally applicable for decorative
utility poles, or reasonable stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements
that are set forth in a Village ordinance, written policy adopted by the
Village, a comprehensive plan or other written design plan that applies to
other occupiers of the rights-of-way, including on a historic landmark or in a
historic district. For stealth design standards, all wireless telecommunication
antennas, including those co-located on a wireless telecommunication tower as
well as small wireless facilities, shall utilize stealth design to blend into
the surrounding environment. A wireless telecommunication antenna, including
but not limited to small wireless facilities, must be enclosed, camouflaged,
screened, or obscured so that it is not readily apparent to a casual observer.
Said wireless telecommunication antenna, including but not limited to small
wireless facilities, shall blend into another part of the structure upon which
it is mounted, such as a rooftop, tower, spire, or other similar feature.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Alternate Placements. Except as provided in this Collocation
Requirements and Conditions Section, a wireless provider shall not be required
to collocate collocation small wireless facilities on any specific utility
pole, or category of utility poles, or be required to collocate multiple
antenna systems on a single utility pole. However, with respect to an
application for the collocation of a small wireless facility associated with a
new utility pole, the Village may propose that the small wireless facility be
collocated on an existing utility pole or existing wireless support structure
within one hundred feet (100â€™) of the proposed collocation, which the applicant
shall accept if it has the right to use the alternate structure on reasonable
terms and conditions, and the alternate location and structure does not impose
technical limits or additional material costs as determined by the applicant.
If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the Village, the applicant
shall provide written certification describing the property rights, technical
limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does not satisfy the
criteria in this paragraph.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Height Limitations. The maximum height of a small wireless facility
shall be no more than ten feet (10â€™) above the utility pole or wireless support
structure on which the small wireless facility is collocated.
New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures on which small
wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Ten feet (10â€™) in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the Village, that is located within
three hundred feet (300â€™) of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless
support structure and that is in the same right-of-way within the
jurisdictional boundary of the Village, provided the Village may designate
which intersecting right-of-way within three hundred feet (300â€™) of the
proposed utility pole or wireless support structures shall control the height
limitation for such facility; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Forty-five feet (45â€™) above ground level.
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â Height Exceptions or Variances. If an applicant proposes a height for a
new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on which the
small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant shall apply
for a special use permit or variance in conformance with procedures, terms and
conditions set forth in Title 8 and Title 10 of the Village of Broadview Code
of Ordinances (the "Village Code").
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Contractual Design Requirements. The wireless provider shall comply
with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the Village and a
private property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable
to utility poles and ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Ground-mounted Equipment Spacing. The wireless provider shall comply
with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â Undergrounding Regulations. The wireless provider shall comply with
local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding requirements
that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of existing utility
poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the requirements include a
waiver, zoning or other process that addresses requests to install such new
utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do not prohibit the
replacement of utility poles.
Â Â Â M.Â Â Â Collocation Completion Deadline. Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within one hundred and eighty (180) days after
issuance of the permit, unless the Village and the wireless provider agree to
extend this period or a delay is caused by make-ready work for a municipal
utility pole or by the lack of commercial power or backhaul availability at the
site, provided the wireless provider has made a timely request within sixty
(60) days after the issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul
services, and the additional time to complete installation does not exceed
three hundred and sixty (360) days after issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the
permit shall be void unless the Village grants an extension in writing to the
applicant. (Ord. CO-2021-10, 7-6-2021)
8-9-24-5: APPLICATION FEES:
Application fees are imposed as follows:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Applicant shall pay an application fee of six hundred and fifty dollars
($650.00) for an application to collocate a single small wireless facility on
an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, and three hundred and
fifty dollars ($350.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in a
consolidated application to collocate more than one small wireless facility on
existing utility poles or wireless support structures.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Applicant shall pay an application fee of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in an application that
includes the installation of a new utility pole for such collocation.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Notwithstanding any contrary provision of state law or local ordinance,
applications pursuant to this Section shall be accompanied by the required
application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The Village shall not require an application, approval or permit, or
require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Routine maintenance; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities that
are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless provider
notifies the Village at least ten (10) days prior to the planned replacement
and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of equipment
consistent with subsection "(B)(1)" under the Section
8-9-24-3(b)(1) titled Application Requirements; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or replacement
of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung between
existing utility poles in compliance with applicable safety codes.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the Village to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures. (Ord. CO-2021-10, 7-6-2021)
8-9-24-6: EXCEPTIONS TO APPLICABILITY:
Nothing in Section
8-9-24 authorizes a person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled by
the Village or another unit of local government that is not located within
rights-of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure
without the consent of the property owner; or
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Property owned by a rail carrier registered under Section 18c-7201 of
the Illinois Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public commuter
rail service, or an electric utility as defined in Section 16-102 of the Public
Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail
service, or electric utility. The provisions of Section 8-9-24 do not apply to
an electric or gas public utility or such utility's wireless facilities if the
facilities are being used, developed and maintained consistent with the
provisions of subsection (i) of Section 16-108.5 of the Public Utilities Act.
For the purposes of this subsection, "public utility" has the meaning given to
that term in Section 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in Section
8-9-24 shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â To obtain a franchise or a State-issued authorization to offer cable
service or video service; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â To obtain any required permission to install, place, maintain, or
operate communications facilities, other than small wireless facilities subject
to Section
8-9-24. (Ord. CO-2021-10, 7-6-2021)
8-9-24-7: PRE-EXISTING AGREEMENTS:
Existing agreements between the Village and wireless providers that relate to
the collocation of small wireless facilities in the right-of-way, including the
collocation of small wireless facilities on Village utility poles, that were in
effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for all small wireless facilities
collocated on the Village's utility poles pursuant to applications submitted to
the Village before June 1, 2018, subject to applicable termination provisions
contained therein. Agreements entered into after June 1, 2018, shall comply
with Section
8-9-24.
A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the Village on the
effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the Village
makes available under Section
8-9-24 for the collocation of small wireless facilities or the installation of
new utility poles for the collocation of small wireless facilities that are the
subject of an application submitted two or more years after the effective date
of the Act by notifying the Village that it opts to accept such rates, fees and
terms. The existing agreement remains in effect, subject to applicable
termination provisions, for the small wireless facilities the wireless provider
has collocated on the Village's utility poles pursuant to applications
submitted to the Village before the wireless provider provides such notice and
exercises its option under this paragraph. (Ord. CO-2021-10, 7- 6-2021)
8-9-24-8: ANNUAL RECURRING RATE:
A wireless provider shall pay to the Village an annual recurring rate to
collocate a small wireless facility on a Village utility pole located in a
right-of-way that equals:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Two hundred dollars ($200.00) per year; or
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The actual, direct and reasonable costs related to the wireless
provider's use of space on the Village utility pole.
If the Village has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct costs,
the fee shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00) payable on the first day after
the first annual anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent
to collocate, and on each annual anniversary date thereafter. (Ord. CO-2021-10,
7-6-2021)
8-9-24-9: ABANDONMENT:
A small wireless facility that is not operated for a continuous period of
twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned. The owner of the facility
shall remove, at their own cost, the small wireless facility within ninety (90)
days after receipt of written notice from the Village notifying the wireless
provider of the abandonment.
The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, by the Village to the owner at the last known address of the
wireless provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within ninety
(90) days of such notice, the Village may remove or cause the removal of such
facility pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for municipal
utility poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of
nuisances or by other law for removal and cost recovery.
A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the Village if it sells or
transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the Village.
Such notice shall include the name and contact information of the new wireless
provider. (Ord. CO-2021-10, 7-6-2021)
8-9-24-10: DISPUTE RESOLUTION:
The Circuit Court of Cook County shall have exclusive jurisdiction to resolve
all disputes arising under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act.
Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for collocation of small
wireless facilities on municipal utility poles within the right-of-way, the
Village shall allow the collocating person to collocate on its poles at annual
rates of no more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) per year per municipal
utility pole, with rates to be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. CO-2021-10, 7-6-2021)
8-9-24-11: INDEMNIFICATION:
A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the Village harmless against any
and all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting
from or arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the
Village improvements or right-of-way associated with such improvements by the
wireless provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the
rights and privileges granted under Section
8-9-24 and the Act. A wireless provider has no obligation to indemnify or hold
harmless against any liabilities and losses as may be due to or caused by the
sole negligence of the Village or its employees or agents. A wireless provider
shall further waive any claims that they may have against the Village with
respect to consequential, incidental, or special damages, however caused, based
on the theory of liability. (Ord. CO-2021-10, 7-6-2021)
8-9-24-12: INSURANCE:
The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider's own cost and
expense, the following insurance:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Property insurance for its property's replacement cost against all
risks;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Workers' compensation insurance, as required by law; and
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its activities
on the Village improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum protection
limits consistent with its requirements of other users of Village improvements
or rights-of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and property damage.
The wireless provider shall include the Village as an additional insured on the
commercial general liability policy and provide certification and documentation
of inclusion of the Village in a commercial general liability policy prior to
the collocation of any wireless facility.
If the Applicant is not providing such insurance to protect the contractors and
subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and subcontractors
shall comply with this section.
A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance coverage
and limit requirement required by the Village. A wireless provider that self-
insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to comply with
the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this Section. A
wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to the Village
evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-insure the
insurance coverage limits required by the Village. (Ord. CO-2021-10, 7-6-2021)
CHAPTER 10
CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE
SECTION:
8-10-1: Definitions
8-10-2: Cable/Video Service Provider Fee Imposed
8-10-3: Applicable Principles
8-10-4: No Impact On Other Taxes Due From Holder
8-10-5: Audits Of Cable/Video Service Provider
8-10-6: Late Fees/Payments
8-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC section 522(6).
COMMISSION: The Illinois commerce commission.
GROSS REVENUES: All consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property, and in-kind contributions received by the
holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable service or
video service within the holder's cable service or video service area within
the village.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Gross revenues shall include the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Recurring charges for cable or video service.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Event based charges for cable service or video service, including,
but not limited to, pay per view and video on demand charges.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Service charges related to the provision of cable service or video
service, including, but not limited to, activation, installation, and repair
charges.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including, but not limited to, service order and service
termination charges.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges, and
other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent payments.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its
affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service within the
village. The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the
village divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant
regional or national compensation arrangement.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the
operation of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service
with respect to commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services on the holder's network,
such as a "home shopping" or similar channel, subject to subsection A9 of this
definition.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled or
integrated functionally with other services, capabilities, or applications, the
portion of the holder's revenue attributable to the other services,
capabilities, or applications shall be included in the gross revenue unless the
holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â The service provider fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-801(b).
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Gross revenues do not include any of the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad debt,
subject to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Refunds, discounts, or other price adjustments that reduce the
amount of gross revenues received by the holder of the state issued
authorization to the extent the refund, rebate, credit, or discount is
attributable to cable service or video service.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged, or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable service or video service,
including, without limitation, revenue received from telecommunication
services, information services, or the provision of directory or internet
advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement, and
electronic publishing or any other revenues attributed by the holder to
noncable service or nonvideo service in accordance with the holder's books and
records and records kept in the regular course of business and any applicable
laws, rules, regulations, standards, or orders.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The sale of cable services or video services for resale in which the
purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the purchaser's
subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that it will
resell the service within the village and pay the fee permitted by 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b) with respect to the service.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the subscribers
or the transaction by a city, state, federal, or any other governmental entity
and collected by the holder of the state issued authorization and required to
be remitted to the taxing entity, including sales and use taxes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Security deposits collected from subscribers.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Amounts paid by subscribers to "home shopping" or similar vendors
for merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part of the
cable service or video service.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of gross revenues to the extent the treatment of the revenue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b)
which would otherwise be paid by the cable service or video service.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the commission pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-401.
SERVICE: The provision of "cable service" or "video service" to subscribers and
the interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the commission
pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
SERVICE PROVIDER FEE: The amount paid under this chapter and 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801 by the holder to a village for the service areas
within its territorial jurisdiction.
VIDEO SERVICE: Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is
required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and which
is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the public
right of way without regard to delivery technology, including internet protocol
technology. This definition does not include any video programming provided by
a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 USC section 332(d) or any
video programming provided solely as part of, and via, service that enables
users to access content, information, electronic mail, or other services
offered over the public internet. (Ord. 2008-05, 2-4-2008)
8-10-2: CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE IMPOSED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Fee Imposed: A fee is hereby imposed on any holder providing cable
service or video service in the village.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Amount Of Fee: The amount of the fee imposed hereby shall be five
percent (5%) of the holder's gross revenues.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Notice To Village: The holder shall notify the village at least ten
(10) days prior to the date on which the holder begins to offer cable service
or video service in the village.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Holder's Liability: The holder shall be liable for and pay the service
provider fee to the village. The holder's liability for the fee shall commence
on the first day of the calendar month following thirty (30) days after receipt
of the ordinance adopting this chapter by the holder. The ordinance adopting
this chapter shall be sent by mail, postage prepaid, to the address listed on
the holder's application notice sent pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/21-401(b)(6) to the village.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Payment Date: The payment of the service provider fee shall be due on a
quarterly basis, forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar quarter.
If mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each
payment shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of
the fee.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Exemption: The fee hereby imposed does not apply to existing cable
service or video service providers that have an existing franchise agreement
with the village in which a fee is paid.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Credit For Other Payments: An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
21-301(c) with credit for prepaid franchise fees under that agreement may
deduct the amount of such credit from the fees that operator owes under
subsection B of this section. (Ord. 2008-05, 2-4-2008)
8-10-3: APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES:
All determinations and calculations under this chapter shall be made pursuant
to generally accepted accounting principles. (Ord. 2008-05, 2-4-2008)
8-10-4: NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES DUE FROM HOLDER:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to exempt a holder from
any tax that is or may later be imposed by the village, including any tax that
is or may later be required to be paid by or through the holder with respect to
cable service or video service. A state issued authorization shall not affect
any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the village's
simplified municipal telecommunications tax or any other tax as it applies to
any telephone service provided by the holder. A state issued authorization
shall not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the
local unit of government's 911 or E911 fees, taxes or charges. (Ord. 2008-05,
2-4-2008)
8-10-5: AUDITS OF CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Audit Requirement: The village will notify the holder of the
requirements it imposes on other cable service or video service providers to
submit to an audit of its books and records. The holder shall comply with the
same requirements the village imposes on other cable service or video service
providers in its jurisdiction to audit the holder's books and records and to
recompute any amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of the
village. If all local franchises between the village and cable operator
terminate, the audit requirements shall be those adopted by the village
pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill of rights act, 50 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq. No acceptance of amounts remitted should be
construed as an accord that the amounts are correct.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Additional Payments: Any additional amount due after an audit shall be
paid within thirty (30) days after the municipality's submission of an invoice
for the sum. (Ord. 2008-05, 2-4-2008)
8-10-6: LATE FEES/PAYMENTS:
All fees due and payments which are past due shall be governed by ordinances
adopted by this municipality pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill
of rights act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq. (Ord. 2008-05, 2-4-
2008)
CHAPTER 11
CABLE AND VIDEO CUSTOMER PROTECTION LAW
SECTION:
8-11-1: Customer Service And Privacy Protection Law
8-11-2: Enforcement
8-11-3: Penalties
8-11-4: Customer Credits
8-11-1: CUSTOMER SERVICE AND PRIVACY PROTECTION LAW:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Adoption: The regulations of 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/70-501
are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the cable or video
providers offering services within the village's boundaries.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Amendments: Any amendment to the cable and video customer protection
law that becomes effective after the effective date of this chapter shall be
incorporated into this chapter by reference and shall be applicable to cable or
video providers offering services within the municipality's boundaries.
However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional for adoption by
municipalities shall not be incorporated into this chapter by reference without
formal action by the corporate authorities of the village. (Ord. 2008-04, 2-4-
2008)
8-11-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The village does hereby pursuant to law declare its intent to enforce all of
the customer service and privacy protection standards of the cable and video
protection law with respect to complaints received from residents within the
village. (Ord. 2008-04, 2-4-2008)
8-11-3: PENALTIES:
The village, pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/70-501(r)(1), does
hereby provide for a schedule of penalties for any material breach of the cable
and video protection law by cable or video providers in addition to the
penalties provided in the law. The monetary penalties shall apply on a
competitively neutral basis and shall not exceed seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) or each day of the material breach and shall not exceed twenty five
thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for each occurrence of a material breach per
customer.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â "Material breach" means any substantial failure of a cable or video
provider to comply with service quality and other standards specified in any
provision of the law.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The village shall give the cable or video provider written notice of
any alleged material breaches of the law and allow such provider at least
thirty (30) days from the receipt of the notice to remedy the specified
material breach.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â A material breach, for the purposes of assessing penalties, shall be
deemed to occur for each day that a material breach has not been remedied by
the cable or video service provider after the notice in subsection B of this
section. (Ord. 2008-04, 2-4-2008)
8-11-4: CUSTOMER CREDITS:
The village hereby adopts the schedule of customer credits for violations.
Those credits shall be as provided for in the provisions of 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/70-501(s) and applied on the statement issued to the
customer for the next billing cycle following the violation or following the
discovery of the violation. The cable or video provider is responsible for
providing the credits and the customer is under no obligation to request the
credit. (Ord. 2008-04, 2-4-2008)
CHAPTER 12
PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE
SECTION:
8-12-1: Definitions
8-12-2: PEG Access Support Fee Imposed
8-12-3: Applicable Principles
8-12-4: No Impact On Other Taxes Due From Holder
8-12-5: Audits Of Cable/Video Service Provider
8-12-6: Late Fees/Payments
8-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC section 522(6).
COMMISSION: The Illinois commerce commission.
GROSS REVENUES: All consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property, and in- kind contributions received by the
holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable service or
video service within the holder's cable service or video service area within
the village.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Gross revenues shall include the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Recurring charges for cable or video service.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Event based charges for cable service or video service, including,
but not limited to, pay per view and video on demand charges.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Service charges related to the provision of cable service or video
service, including, but not limited to, activation, installation, and repair
charges.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including, but not limited to, service order and service
termination charges.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges, and
other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent payments.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its
affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service within the
village. The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the
village divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant
regional or national compensation arrangement.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the
operation of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service
with respect to commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services on the holder's network,
such as a "home shopping" or similar channel, subject to subsection A9 of this
definition.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled or
integrated functionally with other services, capabilities, or applications, the
portion of the holder's revenue attributable to the other services,
capabilities, or applications shall be included in the gross revenue unless the
holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â The service provider fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-801(b).
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Gross revenues do not include any of the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad debt,
subject to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Refunds, discounts, or other price adjustments that reduce the
amount of gross revenues received by the holder of the state issued
authorization to the extent the refund, rebate, credit, or discount is
attributable to cable service or video service.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged, or
functionally integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues
received from services not classified as cable service or video service,
including, without limitation, revenue received from telecommunication
services, information services, or the provision of directory or internet
advertising, including yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement, and
electronic publishing or any other revenues attributed by the holder to
noncable service or nonvideo service in accordance with the holder's books and
records and records kept in the regular course of business and any applicable
laws, rules, regulations, standards, or orders.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The sale of cable services or video services for resale in which the
purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the purchaser's
subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that it will
resell the service within the village and pay the fee permitted by 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b) with respect to the service.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the subscribers
or the transaction by a city, state, federal, or any other governmental entity
and collected by the holder of the state issued authorization and required to
be remitted to the taxing entity, including sales and use taxes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Security deposits collected from subscribers.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Amounts paid by subscribers to "home shopping" or similar vendors
for merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part of the
cable service or video service.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of gross revenues to the extent the treatment of the revenue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b)
which would otherwise be paid by the cable service or video service.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the commission pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-401.
PEG: Public, education and governmental.
PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE: The amount paid under this chapter and 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(d) by the holder to the village for the service
areas within its territorial jurisdiction.
SERVICE: The provision of "cable service" or "video service" to subscribers and
the interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the commission
pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
SERVICE PROVIDER FEE: The amount paid under this chapter and 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801 by the holder to village for the service areas
within its territorial jurisdiction.
VIDEO SERVICE: Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is
required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and which
is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the public
right of way without regard to delivery technology, including internet protocol
technology. This definition does not include any video programming provided by
a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 USC section 332(d) or any
video programming provided solely as part of, and via, service that enables
users to access content, information, electronic mail, or other services
offered over the public internet. (Ord. 10-58, 12-20-2010)
8-12-2: PEG ACCESS SUPPORT FEE IMPOSED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â PEG Fee Imposed: A PEG access support fee is hereby imposed on any
holder providing cable service or video service in the village in addition to
the fee imposed pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Amount Of Fee: The amount of the PEG access support fee imposed hereby
shall be one percent (1%) of the holder's gross revenues or, if greater, the
percentage of gross revenues that incumbent cable operators pay to the village
or its designee for PEG access support in the village.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Payment: The holder shall pay the PEG access support fee to the village
or to the entity designated by the village to manage PEG access. The holder's
liability for the PEG access support fee shall commence on the date set forth
in section 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(d)(1).
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Payment Due: The payment of the PEG access support fee shall be due on
a quarterly basis, forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar
quarter. If mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked.
Each payment shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation
of the fee.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Credit For Other Payments: An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
21-301(c) shall pay, at the time they would have been due, all monetary
payments for PEG access that would have been due during the remaining term of
the agreement had it not been terminated pursuant to that section. All payments
made by an incumbent cable operator pursuant to the previous sentence may be
credited against the fees that that operator owes. (Ord. 10-58, 12-20-2010)
8-12-3: APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES:
All determinations and calculations under this chapter shall be made pursuant
to generally accepted accounting principles. (Ord. 10-58, 12-20-2010)
8-12-4: NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES DUE FROM HOLDER:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to exempt a holder from
any tax that is or may later be imposed by the village, including any tax that
is or may later be required to be paid by or through the holder with respect to
cable service or video service. A state issued authorization shall not affect
any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the village's
simplified municipal telecommunications tax or any other tax as it applies to
any telephone service provided by the holder. A state issued authorization
shall not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the
local unit of government's 911 or E911 fees, taxes or charges. (Ord. 10-58, 12-
20-2010)
8-12-5: AUDITS OF CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Audit Requirement: The village will notify the holder of the
requirements it imposes on other cable service or video service providers to
submit to an audit of its books and records. The holder shall comply with the
same requirements the village imposes on other cable service or video service
providers in its jurisdiction to audit the holder's books and records and to
recompute any amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of the
village. If all local franchises between the village and cable operator
terminate, the audit requirements shall be those adopted by the village
pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill of rights act, 50 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq. No acceptance of amounts remitted should be
construed as an accord that the amounts are correct.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Additional Payments: Any additional amount due after an audit shall be
paid within thirty (30) days after the village's submission of an invoice for
the sum. (Ord. 10-58, 12-20-2010)
8-12-6: LATE FEES/PAYMENTS:
All fees due and payments which are past due shall be governed by ordinances
adopted by this village pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill of
rights act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq. (Ord. 10-58, 12-20-2010)
CHAPTER 13
ILLICIT DISCHARGE AND CONNECTION
SECTION:
8-13-1: Purpose/Intent
8-13-2: Definitions
8-13-3: Applicability
8-13-4: Responsibility For Administration
8-13-5: Ultimate Responsibility
8-13-6: Discharge Prohibitions
8-13-7: Watercourse Protection
8-13-8: Industrial Or Construction Activity Discharges
8-13-9: Compliance Monitoring
8-13-10: Requirement To Prevent, Control, And Reduce Stormwater Pollutants By
The Use Of Best Management Practices
8-13-11: Notification Of Spills
8-13-12: Violations, Enforcement, And Penalties
8-13-13: Suspension Of MS4 Access
8-13-14: Appeal Of Notice Of Violation
8-13-15: Enforcement Measures After Appeal
8-13-16: Cost Of Abatement Of The Violation
8-13-17: Violations Deemed A Public Nuisance
8-13-18: Remedies Not Exclusive
8-13-1: PURPOSE/INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety, and general
welfare of the citizens of Broadview through the regulation of nonstormwater
discharges to the storm drainage system to the maximum extent practicable as
required by federal and state law. This chapter establishes methods for
controlling the introduction of pollutants into the municipal separate storm
sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with requirements of the national
pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit process. The objectives
of this chapter are:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the MS4 by stormwater
discharges by any user.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the MS4.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, surveillance,
monitoring, and enforcement procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this
chapter. (Ord. 10-32, 6-7-2010)
8-13-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following shall mean:
AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY: The village and the director of public works
and/or its designee.
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs): Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwater, receiving waters, or stormwater conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
CLEAN WATER ACT: The federal water pollution control act (33 USC section 1251
et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY: Activities subject to NPDES construction permits. These
include construction projects resulting in land disturbance of one acre or
more. Such activities include, but are not limited to, clearing and grubbing,
grading, excavating, and demolition.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
ILLEGAL DISCHARGE: Any direct or indirect nonstormwater discharge to the storm
drain system, except as exempted in subsection 8-13-6A of this chapter.
ILLICIT CONNECTIONS: An illicit connection is defined as either of the
following:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface that
allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including, but not
limited to, any conveyances that allow any nonstormwater discharge including
sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain system and
any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and sinks,
regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously allowed,
permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency, or
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial land
use to the storm drain system that has not been documented in plans, maps, or
equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY: Activities subject to NPDES industrial stormwater permits
as defined in 40 CFR, section 122.26(b)(14).
MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4): The system of conveyances
(including sidewalks, roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch
basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, manmade channels, or storm drains) owned and
operated by the village and designed or used for collecting or conveying
stormwater, and that is not used for collecting or conveying sewage.
NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT: A permit issued by EPA (or by a state under authority delegated
pursuant to 33 USC section 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants
to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an
individual, group, or general areawide basis.
NONSTORMWATER DISCHARGE: Any discharge to the storm drain system that is not
composed entirely of stormwater.
PERSON: Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or
as the owner's agent.
POLLUTANT: Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may
include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; nonhazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects,
ordinances, and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to
pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous
substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and
particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from
constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any
kind.
PREMISES: Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM: Publicly owned facilities by which stormwater is
collected and/or conveyed, including, but not limited to, any roads with
drainage systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm
drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and human
made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures.
STORMWATER: Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of water
from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN: A document which describes the best management
practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business to identify
sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to eliminate or
reduce pollutant discharges to stormwater, stormwater conveyance systems, and/
or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
WASTEWATER: Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater,
discharged from a facility. (Ord. 10-32, 6-7-2010)
8-13-3: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall apply to all water entering the storm drain system generated
on any developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted by the
village. (Ord. 10-32, 6-7-2010)
8-13-4: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION:
The village shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the village may be delegated
in writing by the director of public works, and/or its designee, to persons or
entities acting in the beneficial interest of or in the employ of the village.
(Ord. 10-32, 6-7-2010)
8-13-5: ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY:
The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore this chapter does not intend or imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, or unauthorized discharge of pollutants. (Ord. 10-32, 6-7-2010)
8-13-6: DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Prohibition Of Illegal Discharges: No person shall throw, drain, or
otherwise discharge, cause, or allow others under its control to throw, drain,
or otherwise discharge into the MS4 any pollutants or waters containing any
pollutants, other than stormwater.
The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illegal discharge to the storm
drain system is prohibited except as described as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this chapter: water line flushing, landscape irrigation,
diverted stream flows, rising groundwaters, uncontaminated groundwater
infiltration, uncontaminated pumped groundwater, discharges from potable water
sources, foundation drains, air conditioning condensation, irrigation water,
springs, water from crawl space pumps, footing drains, lawn watering,
individual residential car washing, flows from riparian habitats and wetlands,
dechlorinated swimming pool discharges, and street wash water.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Discharges or flow from firefighting, and other discharges specified
in writing by the village as being necessary to protect public health and
safety.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Discharges associated with dye testing, however this activity
requires a verbal notification to the village prior to the time of the test.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The prohibition shall not apply to any nonstormwater discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the United States
environmental protection agency (EPA), provided that the discharger is in full
compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other
applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written approval has been
granted for any discharge to the storm drain system.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Prohibition Of Illicit Connections:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of illicit
connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A person is considered to be in violation of this chapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows such a connection
to continue.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Improper connections in violation of this chapter must be
disconnected and redirected, if necessary, to an approved on site wastewater
management system or the sanitary sewer system, upon approval of the village.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Any drain or conveyance that has not been documented in plans, maps
or equivalent, and which may be connected to the storm sewer system, shall be
located by the owner or occupant of that property upon receipt of written
notice of violation from the village requiring that such locating be completed.
Such notice will specify a reasonable time period within which the location of
the drain or conveyance is to be determined, that the drain or conveyance be
identified as storm sewer, sanitary sewer or other, and that the outfall
location or point of connection to the storm sewer system, sanitary sewer
system or other discharge point be identified. Results of these investigations
are to be documented and provided to the village. (Ord. 10-32, 6-7-2010)
8-13-7: WATERCOURSE PROTECTION:
Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical
integrity of the watercourse. (Ord. 10-32, 6-7-2010)
8-13-8: INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Submission Of NOI To Village:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES
stormwater discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit.
Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to
the village prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The operator of a facility, including construction sites, required
to have an NPDES permit to discharge stormwater associated with industrial
activity shall submit a copy of the notice of intent (NOI) to the village at
the same time the operator submits the original notice of intent to the EPA as
applicable.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The copy of the notice of intent may be delivered to the village
either in person or by mailing it to:
Notice Of Intent To Discharge Stormwater
Village Of Broadview
2350 South 25th Avenue
Broadview, IL 60155
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â A person commits an offense if the person operates a facility that
is discharging stormwater associated with industrial activity without having
submitted a copy of the notice of intent to do so to the village. (Ord. 10-32,
6-7-2010)
8-13-9: COMPLIANCE MONITORING:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Right Of Entry; Inspection And Sampling: The village shall be permitted
to enter and inspect facilities subject to regulation under this chapter as
often as may be necessary to determine compliance with this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â If a discharger has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the discharger
shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access to representatives of the
village.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Facility operators shall allow the village ready access to all parts
of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, examination and
copying of records that must be kept under the conditions of an NPDES permit to
discharge stormwater, and the performance of any additional duties as defined
by state and federal law.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The village shall have the right to set up on any permitted facility
such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the village to conduct
monitoring and/or sampling of the facility's stormwater discharge.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The village has the right to require the discharger to install
monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring
equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition by the discharger at its own expense. All devices used to measure
stormwater flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and, easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the village and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the operator.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Unreasonable delays in allowing the village access to a permitted
facility is a violation of a stormwater discharge permit and of this chapter. A
person who is the operator of a facility with an NPDES permit to discharge
stormwater associated with industrial activity commits an offense if the person
denies the village reasonable access to the permitted facility for the purpose
of conducting any activity authorized or required by this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Search Warrants: If the village has been refused access to any part of
the premises from which stormwater is discharged, and he/she is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this chapter
or any order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety,
and welfare of the community, then the village may seek issuance of a search
warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 10-32, 6-7-2010)
8-13-10: REQUIREMENT TO PREVENT, CONTROL, AND REDUCE STORMWATER POLLUTANTS BY
THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES:
Village will adopt requirements identifying best management practices for any
activity, operation, or facility which may cause or contribute to pollution or
contamination of stormwater, the storm drain system, or waters of the United
States. The owner or operator of such activity, operation, or facility shall
provide, at their own expense, reasonable protection from accidental discharge
of prohibited materials or other wastes into the municipal storm drain system
or watercourses through the use of these structural and nonstructural BMPs.
Further, any person responsible for a property or premises that is, or may be,
the source of an illicit discharge, may be required to implement, at said
person's expense, additional structural and nonstructural BMPs to prevent the
further discharge of pollutants to the MS4. Compliance with all terms and
conditions of a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of stormwater
associated with industrial activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed
compliance with the provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a
stormwater management plan (SWMP) as necessary for compliance with requirements
of the NPDES permit. (Ord. 10-32, 6-7-2010)
8-13-11: NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS:
Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or pollutants
discharging into stormwater, the storm drain system, or waters of the United
States, said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery,
containment, and cleanup of such release. In the event of such a release of
hazardous materials said person shall immediately notify emergency response
agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a
release of nonhazardous materials, said person shall notify the village in
person or by phone or facsimile no later than the next business day.
Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written notice
addressed and mailed to the village within five (5) business days of the phone
notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or
industrial establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall
also retain an on site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to
prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least three (3)
years.
Failure to provide notification of a release as provided above is a violation
of this chapter. (Ord. 10-32, 6-7-2010)
8-13-12: VIOLATIONS, ENFORCEMENT, AND PENALTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Violations: It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any
provision or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this chapter. Any
person who has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this chapter,
may be subject to the enforcement actions outlined in this section or may be
restrained by injunction or otherwise abated in a manner provided by law.
In the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public health or
public safety, the village is authorized to enter upon the subject private
property, without giving prior notice, to take any and all measures necessary
to abate the violation and/or restore the property. The village is authorized
to seek costs of the abatement as outlined herein.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Warning Notice: When the village finds that any person has violated, or
continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, or any order issued
hereunder, the village may serve upon that person a written warning notice,
specifying the particular violation believed to have occurred and requesting
the discharger to immediately investigate the matter and to seek a resolution
whereby any offending discharge will cease. Investigation and/or resolution of
the matter in response to the warning notice in no way relieves the alleged
violator of liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of
the warning notice. Nothing in this subsection shall limit the authority of the
village to take any action, including emergency action or any other enforcement
action, without first issuing a warning notice.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Notice Of Violation: Whenever the village finds that a person has
violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this chapter, the
village may order compliance by written notice of violation to the responsible
person.
The notice of violation shall contain:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The name and address of the alleged violator;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The address when available or a description of the building,
structure or land upon which the violation is occurring, or has occurred;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â A description of the remedial measures necessary to restore
compliance with this chapter and a time schedule for the completion of such
remedial action;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â A statement of the penalty or penalties that shall or may be
assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â A statement that the determination of violation may be appealed to
the village by filing a written notice of appeal within ten (10) days of
service of notice of violation; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â A statement specifying that, should the violator fail to restore
compliance within the established time schedule, the work will be done by a
designated governmental agency or a contractor and the expense thereof shall be
charged to the violator.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Notice Requirements: Such notice may require without limitation:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and
desist;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Compensatory Action: In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and
remedies authorized by this chapter, the village may impose upon a violator
alternative compensatory actions, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at
compliance workshops, creek cleanup, etc. (Ord. 10-32, 6-7-2010)
8-13-13: SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Emergency Cease And Desist Orders: When the village finds that any
person has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, or
any order issued hereunder, or that the person's past violations are likely to
recur, and that the person's violation(s) has (have) caused or contributed to
an actual or threatened discharge to the MS4 or waters of the United States
which reasonably appears to present an imminent or substantial endangerment to
the health or welfare of persons, or to the environment, the village may issue
an order to the violator directing it immediately to cease and desist all such
violations and directing the violator to:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Immediately comply with all ordinance requirements; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Take such appropriate preventive action as may be needed to properly
address a continuing or threatened violation, including immediately halting
operations and/or terminating the discharge.
Any person notified of an emergency order directed to it under this subsection
shall immediately comply and stop or eliminate its endangering discharge. In
the event of a discharger's failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the
emergency order, the village may take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent
or minimize harm to the MS4 or waters of the United States, and/or endangerment
to persons or to the environment, including immediate termination of a
facility's water supply, sewer connection, or other municipal utility services.
The village may allow the person to recommence its discharge when it has
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the village that the period of endangerment
has passed, unless further termination proceedings are initiated against the
discharger under this chapter. A person that is responsible, in whole or in
part, for any discharge presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a
detailed written statement, describing the causes of the harmful discharge and
the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence, to the village within
three (3) days of receipt of the emergency order. Issuance of an emergency
cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for,
taking any other action against the violator.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Suspension Due To Illicit Discharges In Emergency Situations: The
village may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access to a person
when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge
which presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the
environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or waters of
the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order
issued in an emergency, the village may take such steps as deemed necessary to
prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the United States, or to
minimize danger to persons.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Suspension Due To The Detection Of Illicit Discharge: Any person
discharging to the MS4 in violation of this chapter may have their MS4 access
terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The
village will notify a violator of the proposed termination of its MS4 access.
The violator may petition the village for a reconsideration and hearing.
A person commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to premises
terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of the village.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Civil Penalties: In the event the alleged violator fails to take the
remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or otherwise fails to
cure the violations described therein within seven (7) days, or such greater
period as the village shall deem appropriate, after the village has taken one
or more of the actions described above, the village may impose a penalty not to
exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each day the violation remains
unremedied after receipt of the notice of violation. (Ord. 10-32, 6-7-2010)
8-13-14: APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of the
village. The notice of appeal must be received within ten (10) days from the
date of the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before the appropriate
authority or his/her designee shall take place within thirty (30) days from the
date of receipt of the notice of appeal. The decision of the municipal
authority or their designee shall be final. (Ord. 10-32, 6-7-2010)
8-13-15: ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL:
If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth
in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within ten (10) days
of the decision of the village upholding the decision of the authorized
enforcement agency, then representatives of the village shall enter upon the
subject private property and are authorized to take any and all measures
necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property. It shall be
unlawful for any person, owner, agent or person in possession of any premises
to refuse to allow the government agency or designated contractor to enter upon
the premises for the purposes set forth above. (Ord. 10-32, 6-7-2010)
8-13-16: COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION:
Within thirty (30) days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the
property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative
costs. If the amount due is not paid within a timely manner as determined by
the decision of the municipal authority or by the expiration of the time in
which to file an appeal, the charges shall become a special assessment against
the property and shall constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the
assessment.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become liable
to the village by reason of such violation. (Ord. 10-32, 6-7-2010)
8-13-17: VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE:
In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is declared and
deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the violator's
expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel the
cessation of such nuisance may be taken. (Ord. 10-32, 6-7-2010)
8-13-18: REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state or local law and it is within the
discretion of the village to seek cumulative remedies.
The village may recover all attorney fees, court costs and other expenses
associated with enforcement of this chapter, including sampling and monitoring
expenses. (Ord. 10-32, 6-7-2010)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
9-1-1: Application Of Provisions To Existing Buildings
9-1-2: Building Code Adopted
9-1-3: Mechanical Code Adopted
9-1-4: Residential Code Adopted
9-1-5: Existing Building Code Adopted
9-1-6: International Fuel And Gas Code Adopted
9-1-7: Illinois Accessibility Code Adopted
9-1-8: Illinois Energy Conservation Code
9-1-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS TO EXISTING BUILDINGS:
In construing the regulations established by the code adopted herein, such
regulations shall not be construed as requiring alterations in the construction
or equipment of buildings or structures in existence at the time of passage of
this code, unless specific provision is made to the contrary. (1987 Code)
9-1-2: BUILDING CODE ADOPTED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Code Adopted: A certain document, one copy of which is on file in the
office of the Village Clerk of the Village of Broadview, being marked and
designated as the International Building Code, 2018 edition, as published by
the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the International
Building Code of the Village of Broadview, in the State of Illinois for
regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property,
buildings and structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and
facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that
structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the
condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use and
the demolition of such structures as herein provided; providing for the
issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said international
building code on file in the office of the Village of Broadview are hereby
referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this
subsection.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Amendments: The following sections are hereby deleted, modified or
amended:
Â Â Â Article 1 - Administration And Enforcement:
Â Â Â Sec. 101.1 Title. Delete name of jurisdiction and insert in lieu thereof
Village of Broadview.
Â Â Â Section 109.2 Fee Schedule. Building fees will be 2.5% of the construction
costs with a minimum of $50.00. Plan review fees and inspection fees for all
trades will be the consultant cost plus a 15% administration fee.
Â Â Â Section 109.4 Violation Penalties. Delete in entirety and insert in lieu
thereof: Penalties shall be as set forth in section
1-4-1 of the Village Code providing for general penalties.
Â Â Â Chapter 5 Special Use And Occupancy Requirements.
Â Â Â Section 3109.1 Swimming Pools. Delete in entirety and insert in lieu
thereof: Refer to 2018 International Swimming Pool and Spa Code.
Â Â Â Fire Protection Systems. Refer to 2018 International Fire Code and local
ordinances and amendments.
Â Â Â Signs. Delete article in entirety and insert in lieu thereof: Refer to
Village of Broadview sign ordinance and codes.
Â Â Â Electric Wiring, Equipment And Systems. Refer to the 2014 National Electric
Code.
Â Â Â Plumbing Systems. Refer to 2014 State Of Illinois Plumbing Code, or latest
edition.
(1987 Code; amd. Ord. 09-27, 8-3-2009; Ord. 2020-5, 2-18-2020)
9-1-3: MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Adoption Of Code: A certain document, one copy of which is on file in
the office of the Village Clerk of the Village of Broadview, being marked and
designated as the International Mechanical Code, 2018 edition, as published by
the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the International
Mechanical Code of the Village of Broadview, in the State of Illinois for
regulating and governing the design, construction, quality of materials,
erection, installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement,
addition to, use or maintenance of plumbing systems as herein provided;
providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each
and all regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said
mechanical code on file in the office of the Village are hereby referred to,
adopted, and made part hereof, as if fully set forth in this subsection, with
the additions, insertions, and deletions and changes, if any, prescribed
herein.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Exceptions: There shall be the following exceptions and modifications
to the 2018 International Mechanical Code:
Â Â Â Section 101.1. Village of Broadview shall be inserted wherever it refers to
name of jurisdiction.
Â Â Â Section 106.5.2 The fee schedule shall be as follows:
Â 
Heating, Ventilation, Air Conditioning      Fee
(HVAC)
Installation of air conditioning per        $50.00
dwelling unit or tenant space
Alterations, repairs, replacements and      $85.00
improvements
Installation(s) of new or replacement of a
system, unit or device, which includes, but
is not limited to furnaces, boilers, heat
pumps, radon systems, air distribution      $150.00 per system/unit
systems, geothermal systems, air
conditioning systems, fireplaces,
refrigeration systems, hood/duct systems
and other permanent appliance devices
Installation of new refrigeration for food  $300.00
cooling (including piping)
Plan review and inspection fees (all        Cost of consultant plus a 15%
trades)                                     administration fee
Â 
Â Â Â Sec. 106.5.1 Penalties shall be as set forth in section
1-4-1 of the Village Code providing for general penalties.
(1987 Code; amd. Ord. 09-29, 8-3-2009; Ord. 2020-5, 2-18-2020)
9-1-4: RESIDENTIAL CODE ADOPTED:
A certain document, one copy of which is on file in the office of the Village
Clerk of the Village of Broadview, being marked and designated as the
International Residential Code, 2018 edition, as published by the International
Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the International Residential Code of
the Village of Broadview, in the State of Illinois, on file in the office of
the Village of Broadview is hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part
hereof, for regulating and governing the construction, alteration, movement,
enlargement, replacement, repair equipment, location removal and demolition of
detached one- and two-family dwellings and multiple single-family dwellings
(townhouses) not more than three (3) stories in height with separate means of
egress as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection
of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said International Residential Code on file therefor as
if fully set out in this section, with the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes, if any, prescribed in this section. (Ord. 09-30, 8-3-2009; amd. Ord.
2020-5, 2-18-2020)
9-1-5: EXISTING BUILDING CODE ADOPTED:
A certain document, one copy of which is on file in the office of the Village
Clerk of the Village of Broadview, being marked and designated as the Existing
Building Code, 2018 edition, as published by the International Code Council, be
and is hereby adopted as the existing building code of the Village of
Broadview, in the State of Illinois for regulating and governing the repair,
alteration, change of occupancy, addition and relocation of existing buildings,
including historic buildings, as herein provided; providing for the issuance of
permits and collection of fees therefor, and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said existing building code on
file in the Village of Broadview are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a
part hereof, as if fully set out in this section on file in the office of the
Village of Broadview are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof,
as if fully set out in this section, with the additions, insertions, deletions
and changes, if any, prescribed in this section. (Ord. 09-26, 8-3-2009; amd.
Ord. 2020-5, 2-18-2020)
9-1-6: INTERNATIONAL FUEL AND GAS CODE ADOPTED:
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
Village Clerk of the Village of Broadview, being marked and designated as the
International Fuel Gas Code, 2018 edition, as published by the International
Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Fuel Gas Code of the Village of
Broadview, in the State of Illinois for regulating and governing building
systems that use fuel gas for the design, installation and inspection of such
systems by providing minimum safeguards; providing for the issuance of permits
and collection of fees therefor, and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Fuel Gas Code on file in
the Village of Broadview are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part
hereof, as if fully set out in this section, with the additions, insertions,
deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in this section. (Ord. 2020-6, 2-18-
2020)
9-1-7: ILLINOIS ACCESSIBILITY CODE ADOPTED:
A certain document, one copy of which is on file in the office of the Village
Clerk of the Village of Broadview, being marked and designated as the Illinois
Accessibility Code be and is hereby adopted as the Accessibility Code of the
Village of Broadview, in the State of Illinois, on file in the office of the
Village of Broadview and is hereby referred to and made a part hereof, for
establishing, regulating and governing minimum design requirements to ensure
that the built environment in the State of Illinois is designed, constructed,
and altered to be accessible to and usable by all, including individuals with
disabilities; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said Accessibility Code on file therefor as if fully
set out in this section, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes,
if any, prescribed in this section. (Ord. 2020-6, 2-18-2020)
9-1-8: ILLINOIS ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE:
A certain document, one copy of which is on file in the office of the Village
Clerk of the Village of Broadview, being marked and designated as Title 71
â€œPublic Buildings, Facilities and Real Propertyâ€, Chapter 1 â€œCapital
Development Boardâ€, Subchapter d â€œEnergy Codesâ€, Part 600 â€œIllinois Energy
Conservation Codeâ€ be and is hereby adopted as the municipal code for energy
conservation for the Village of Broadview, in the State of Illinois for
regulating and governing energy efficient building envelopes and installation
of energy efficient mechanical, lighting, and power systems; providing for the
issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Illinois
Energy Conservation Code on file in the office of the Village of Broadview are
hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in
this section, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in this section. (Ord. 2020-6, 2-18-2020)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL BUILDING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Administrative Offices
9-2-1-1: Building Commissioner
9-2-1-2: Deputy Building Commissioner And Building Inspector
9-2-1-3: Elevator Inspector
9-2-2: Building Permit Regulations
9-2-3: Building Permit Fees And Bonds
9-2-4: Fences
9-2-5: Obstructing Exits And Stairways
9-2-6: Trailers And Trailer Camps
9-2-7: Satellite Antenna
9-2-8: Registration Of Contractors; Bond, Certificate
9-2-8-1: Effect On Permit Fees; Exemption For Licenses
9-2-8-2: Enforcement
9-2-8-3: Penalty
9-2-9: Location Of Utilities And Other Services; Fees
9-2-10: Board Up Provisions
9-2-1: ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICES:
9-2-1-1: BUILDING COMMISSIONER 1 :
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Office Created, Appointment, Term: There is hereby created the office
of building commissioner, an executive office of the village. The building
commissioner shall be appointed by the president and board of trustees and
shall hold his office for the period of one year and until his successor is
appointed and qualified.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Duties: It shall be the duty of the building commissioner to see to the
enforcement of all provisions of this code and other ordinances relating to
building. He shall inspect all buildings or structures being erected or altered
as frequently as may be necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of
this code and other ordinances.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Stop Work Orders: The building commissioner shall have the power to
order all work stopped on construction or alteration or repair of buildings in
the village when such work is being done in violation of any provision of this
code or any ordinance relating thereto, or in violation of the zoning title 2 .
Work shall not be resumed after the issuance of such an order except on the
written permission of the commissioner or by order of the board of trustees;
provided, that if the stop order is an oral one, it shall be followed by a
written stop order within one hour. Such stop order may be served by any police
officer of the village.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Right Of Entry: The building commissioner shall have the power to make
or cause to be made entry into any building or premises where the work of
altering, repairing or constructing any building or structure is going on at
any reasonable time for the purpose of making inspections. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 9-3-2B of this title.
2 2. See title 10 of this code.
9-2-1-2: DEPUTY BUILDING COMMISSIONER AND BUILDING INSPECTOR:
There is hereby created the offices of deputy building commissioner and
building inspector. The duties of these offices shall be prescribed from time
to time by the president and board of trustees. Said president and board of
trustees may, at their discretion, appoint one person to the two (2) positions
mentioned herein or may appoint two (2) individuals to the two (2) positions.
(1987 Code)
9-2-1-3: ELEVATOR INSPECTOR:
There is hereby created the office of elevator inspector. The duties and
remuneration of such office shall be prescribed from time to time by the
president and board of trustees. (1987 Code)
9-2-2: BUILDING PERMIT REGULATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Improvements Required, Bond 1 : On application for any building permit,
it shall be the duty of the street committee and the director of public works
and water to inspect the premises for which the application is made in order to
ascertain the condition of the street, sidewalk, curb and gutter immediately
adjoining the premises, and also the surrounding area of the premises if the
applicant is to build on a corner lot. It shall be the further duty of the
street committee and director of public works and water to ascertain and
estimate the cost if none of the improvements, namely streets, sidewalks, curbs
and gutters, are installed on the premises for which application is made for a
building permit, and before the issuance of any building permit, the applicant
must comply by installing the curb, sidewalk, gutter and street. If same cannot
be installed immediately, then applicant must deposit a performance bond with
the village clerk to install the above improvements when requested to do so.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Deposit Required To Protect Water System 1 : No permit for the erection
of a new building or structure or for the repair or alteration of an existing
building or structure shall be granted unless there shall be deposited with the
building commissioner the sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00) to protect the
village against any loss due to damage to buffalo boxes or shutoff boxes of the
water system in connection with such work. Such deposit shall be returned to
the applicant upon completion of the work after deducting the cost of repairing
or replacing any shutoff or buffalo box or the contents thereof, if any damage
has been done thereto in connection with such work.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Diagonal Parking: Whenever any building permit is issued for any of the
four (4) corners of any block fronting on Roosevelt Road in the village, the
applicant for permit shall provide for diagonal, off street parking between the
edge of the pavement and sidewalk on the side street adjoining Roosevelt Road.
Plans and specifications for providing diagonal, off street parking space for
automobiles, as prepared by the village engineer, shall be on file with the
village clerk for public inspection. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See title 8, chapter 2 of this code.
1 1. See title 8, chapter 4 of this code.
9-2-3: BUILDING PERMIT FEES AND BONDS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Construction Fees: The fee to be charged for a permit to erect and
construct, alter or repair any wall, structure, building or part thereof, where
such permit is required by the provisions of this chapter or the ordinances of
the village shall be as follows:
Â 
Estimated Construction Cost Permit Fee
Under $1,000.00             $25.00
$1,000.00 and over          $25.00 plus $20.00 per thousand of estimated cost
                            based upon requested documentation
Â 
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Elevator Inspections: The village board of trustees may enter into
contracts with private inspectors to conduct the annual inspections for any
elevator, manlift, dumbwaiter, and/or escalators in accordance with the
applicable provisions of the laws of the state of Illinois and the United
States. The owner of any building inspected shall pay the fees charged by the
inspector for such inspections.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Electrical Permit Fees: The permit fees for the issuance of electrical
installation permits shall be governed by the 2008 national electric code NFPA
70 2 , with a minimum fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00).
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Plumbing:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Permit Fees: Pursuant to the 2006 municipal code of Chicago for
plumbing, the building commissioner or plumbing inspector shall issue a permit
upon application in all cases where the proposed installation or alteration as
described in such application is found to be in conformity with this title, and
upon the payment by the applicant of a fee of fifty five dollars ($55.00) for
the installation or alteration of one to five (5) fixtures (including in
addition to standard fixtures all floor drains, sump pumps and water heaters).
The applicant must pay an additional fee of ten dollars ($10.00) per additional
fixture installed or altered within the same building.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Plumbers Certification, Bond: All plumbers who do any work in this
village shall be certified by the Illinois department of public health pursuant
to the Illinois plumbing code and shall be bonded in the sum of ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00). No permit for plumbing installations shall be issued
unless there is compliance with this subsection.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Street Opening Bond 1 , Deposit: The bond required by subsection 9-4-3C
of this title shall be in the sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or, in
the alternative, the sum of seven hundred dollars ($700.00) cash may be
deposited with the village to be refunded in full upon notification of
satisfactory completion of the work.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Tank Burial, Permit And Fee: No tank used for the storage of gas, oil,
solvent or other such material shall be buried underground without first
receiving the approval of the fire marshal, and thereafter applying for a
permit from the building commissioner. Said permit application shall be
accompanied by drawings showing the proposed location of the underground tanks
and by a minimum permit fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per tank.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Wrecking Permits, Fee: No building within the village may be wrecked
without first applying for a wrecking permit from the building commissioner.
Said permit shall be accompanied by a fee according to the following schedule:
Â 
For any residential, garage and auxiliary Â $25.00 per building
buildings or structure
For any commercial or industrial building or structure per estimated cost
of demolition:
Estimated Cost Of Demolition              Â Permit Fee
Â Â Â Under $1,000.00                     Â $10.00
Â Â Â $1,000.00 and over                  Â $10.00 plus $20.00 per thousand
Â 
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Fences: For estimated construction cost under one thousand dollars
($1,000.00), there shall be a twenty five dollar ($25.00) fee. For estimated
construction cost over one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) there shall be a fee of
ten dollars ($10.00) plus twenty dollars ($20.00) per thousand or part thereof
of estimated cost.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Sign Permit Fees:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Bench Signs: Annual fee per bench: Fifty dollars ($50.00).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Billboard Signs: Annual license fee of two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00). Permit to be determined by the requisite electrical permit fee and
by a fee of two dollars fifty cents ($2.50) per square foot for each side or
face of the sign.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Change Of Copy: Change of copy of sign face only will be treated as
a nonilluminated sign for the fee. Each face is a separate sign.
Â Â Â J. Satellite Antenna: For each installation costing up to three thousand
dollars ($3,000.00) a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00), and an additional ten
dollars ($10.00) per one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or part thereof exceeding
three thousand dollars ($3,000.00).
Any contractor, repairman or workman who begins work without securing the
necessary permit as provided for in this chapter, shall pay as a fine the
required building permit fee, plus a surcharge of one hundred percent (100%) of
the fee for failure to obtain the necessary permit. (Ord. 09-34, 8-3-2009)
Â 
Notes
2 2. See chapter 3 of this title.
1 1. See subsection 8-5-5B of this code.
9-2-4: FENCES:
It shall be unlawful to erect any fence in the village without obtaining a
permit therefor in compliance with this section.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Definitions:
Â Â Â  FENCE: A barrier, consisting of wooden or metal posts, rails, wire mesh or
similar material used as a boundary or means of protection or confinement.
Â Â Â FRONT YARD: That portion of the lot from the extreme front of building to
the front property line.
Â Â Â REAR YARD: That portion of the lot from the extreme rear of building to the
rear property line.
Â Â Â SIDE YARD: That portion of the lot on either side of the building from the
side of building to the side property line; except on a corner lot, the side
yard facing the street will be considered a front yard area.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Permit Required: An application for a building permit for a fence shall
be made to the Building Commissioner and will be accompanied by a sketch
showing property lines and location of buildings on property, indicating where
fence will be installed, the type of fence and height of fence and also
accompanied by the proper permit fee.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Permit Fee: The permit fee shall be as set out in subsection 9-2-3H of
this Chapter.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Fence Restrictions:
Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â "A" And "B" Districts:
Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â In areas zoned "A" Single-Family or "B" Multiple-Family, height of
fences shall be a maximum of six feet (6') in the rear yard area and a maximum
of four feet (4') in the side yard area, except on a corner lot.
Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â No fence shall be allowed in the front yard area or on a corner lot
where the side yard faces the street.
Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â "C" And "CC" Districts:
Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â In areas zoned "C" Commercial or "CC" Industrial, height of fences
shall be a maximum of eight feet (8') in rear yards and side yards.
Â Â Â b.Â Â Â No fence shall be allowed in the front yard.
Exceptions: This subsection shall not apply to school property or to publicly
owned property. Any person requesting a variance from the provisions of this
Section shall apply to the President and Board of Trustees who will consider
the recommendation of the Building Commissioner and the interest of public
welfare and safety.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Nonconforming Fences: Any fence in existence at the time this Section
is enacted which does not conform to the provisions of this Section shall, upon
the sale of the property or upon fifty percent (50%) destruction of said fence,
be removed or brought into conformity with this Section.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Penalty: Any person found guilty of violating this Section shall be
fined not less than one dollar ($1.00) nor more than two hundred dollars
($200.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed to be
committed on each day in which a violation occurs or is permitted to continue.
(1987 Code)
9-2-5: OBSTRUCTING EXITS AND STAIRWAYS:
It shall be unlawful to obstruct or permit the obstruction of any stairway,
aisle, corridor or exit in any office building, factory, hotel, school, church,
theater, assembly hall, lodge or other public hall, or any building used in
part or wholly for any such purpose, or in any building used by two (2) or more
tenants or families, in such a manner as to interfere with the free use of such
stairway, aisle or corridor or exit. (1987 Code)
9-2-6: TRAILERS AND TRAILER CAMPS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Definitions: For the purpose of this Section, the following words and
phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this
subsection:
Â Â Â  HOUSE CAR TRAILER: Any structure for, or used for, living or sleeping
purposes mounted upon wheels and capable of being transported on wheels from
place to place, either by its own power or by some vehicle attached to it;
provided, however, that this definition shall not apply to any vehicle operated
over fixed rails.
Â Â Â TRAILER CAMP: A plot of ground where one or more house car trailers used as
living or sleeping quarters may be located, regardless of whether or not a
charge is made for such accommodation.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Nuisance Declared: Trailer camps are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(1987 Code)
9-2-7: SATELLITE ANTENNA:
A satellite antenna is described as any reflector used to receive microwave
impulses. It is also referred to herein as a "dish".
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Permit Required, Fee: No satellite antenna shall be located,
constructed or installed in the Village without a permit being issued therefor.
A permit for the installation of an antenna shall be issued by the Building
Department upon presentation of an application, compliance with this Section
and the required permit fee.
Applications shall be accompanied by a plat showing lot lines, electrical
lines, location of antenna, height, diameter of dish and surrounding
landscaping. The permit fee shall be as set out in subsection 9-2-3J of this
Chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Zoning Classification Restrictions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â "A" And "B" Districts: No satellite antenna shall be permitted in an
area zoned "A" Single-Family Residence or "B" Multiple-Family Residence unless:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The use and possession of the antenna is permitted by applicable
law.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â If the antenna consists of a dish, the dish shall be the least
size required for reception as certified by the installer not to exceed eleven
feet (11') in diameter and be mounted on a concrete base. The dish shall not
exceed fourteen feet (14') in height from its concrete base. The mounting of a
dish shall not be permitted on a roof or structure of any kind.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Construction shall conform to all Village ordinances.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Not more than one such dish shall be installed on any lot of
record and the antenna shall service only those persons who occupy that lot.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â The dish shall be located on the rear of the lot but not within
the area for side yard requirements nor within any utility easements, and not
within ten feet (10') of any electrical lines. The color and structural quality
shall blend with existing use of the property and adjacent properties and shall
be screened by landscaping. All electrical connections shall be Underwriters'
Laboratory approved and the current shall be of low voltage. Further, the
connection shall follow current Chicago Electrical Code 1  guidelines and be
firmly grounded.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Other Districts: In all other zoned districts, a satellite antenna
shall not be permitted unless:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The possession of the antenna is permitted by applicable law.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â If the antenna consists of a dish, the dish shall be the least
size required for reception.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Construction shall conform to all Village ordinances.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Not more than one such dish shall be installed on any lot of
record.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â In the case of the property abutting a residential district, the
dish shall be located on the rear of the lot but not within the rear or side
yard requirements.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â The color and structural quality of the dish shall blend with
existing use of the property and adjacent properties, if it abuts a residential
district, and be screened by landscaping. All electrical connections shall be
Underwriters' Laboratory approved and the current shall be of low voltage.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Variations: Variations in the application of this Section may be
granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals as in the cases of variations as set
forth in the Zoning Ordinance of the Village 1 .
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Nonconforming Antenna: Any satellite antenna, as described by this
Section, now in existence which is nonconforming to the terms of this Section,
shall be brought into compliance within twelve (12) months of the effective
date of this Section. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See Chapter 3 of this Title.
1 1. See Title 10 of this Code.
9-2-8: REGISTRATION OF CONTRACTORS; BOND, CERTIFICATE 2 :
Any contractor or subcontractor, whether an individual, sole proprietor,
partnership or corporation, performing work in the village shall not commence
work until the contractor or subcontractor has first applied for and received
an annual certificate of registration.
Applications for the certificate of registration shall be submitted on forms
supplied by the building department.
All applications shall be accompanied by a registration fee in the amount of
one hundred dollars ($100.00), and by proof of a bond in the minimum sum of ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00); provided however that the following contractors
shall submit proof of a bond in the sums stated in section
3-1-6 of this code: house movers; sign erectors; building wreckers.
Upon receipt of the completed application, required fee and proof of bond, the
building commissioner shall issue the certificate.
The annual certificate shall be valid for the current calendar year of January
1 to December 31. (Ord. 09-34, 8-3-2009)
Â 
Notes
2 2. See section 3-1-6 of this code.
9-2-8-1: EFFECT ON PERMIT FEES; EXEMPTION FOR LICENSES:
The certificate of registration fee shall be in addition to any permit fee
required under the terms of any ordinance of the village.
No certificate of registration or fee provided for herein shall be required of
any contractor or subcontractor holding a valid business license issued by the
village. (Ord. 92-36, 10-5-1992, eff. 1-1-1993)
9-2-8-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The building commissioner is hereby authorized to enforce the terms of this
section
9-2-8. No building permit shall be issued until there has been compliance with
the provisions of this section
9-2-8. Any contractor or subcontractor employed to commence work after the
building permit has been issued shall make application as set forth herein to
have a certificate issued prior to commencement of that contractor's or
subcontractor's work. The building commissioner may also take such action to
issue a stop work order as provided in subsection 9-2-1-1C of this chapter.
(Ord. 92-36, 10-5-1992, eff. 1-1-1993)
9-2-8-3: PENALTY:
Any person, sole proprietorship, partnership or corporation who violates the
provisions of this section
9-2-8 shall be subject to a fine of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day for
each day said violation exists. (Ord. 09-34, 8-3-2009)
9-2-9: LOCATION OF UTILITIES AND OTHER SERVICES; FEES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Calls Not Involving JULIE: For calls made directly to the village and
not involving JULIE as governed by section
8-9-16 of this code, the village shall charge a fee of one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00) per hour for a village employee to designate the location of
utilities with a flag, stake or other marking. There shall be a minimum charge
of two (2) hours of service.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Pitot Testing: The village shall charge a flat rate of one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00) per address to facilitate Pitot testing, the
measurement and/or calibration of the water flow through a water hydrant. This
fee is in addition to any fee charged by an individual or business which is
hired by the property owner or renter to actually conduct the testing.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Hydrant Meter Use: There will be a charge of one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00) per fifteen thousand (15,000) gallons or two hundred (200) cubic feet
of water consumed. The village shall designate which hydrant shall be utilized.
Those utilizing the hydrant shall be responsible for any water meter damage or
any hydrant damage resulting from such use.
The director of public works, or other village employee designated by the
village president, must approve the use or service prior to its commencement.
All required fees shall be paid in advance of any use permitted or service
provided. (Ord. 2004-25, 11-15-2004)
9-2-10: BOARD UP PROVISIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No person or entity owning, renting, possessing or controlling any
building in the village shall permit the windows or doors of a building to be
covered with boards, planks of wood, iron grates or bars, except as hereinafter
specifically provided.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â For occupied buildings, use of boards or planks of wood to cover
missing or broken windows or doors shall be permitted in buildings when such
windows or doors have been broken or damaged, but such boarding up is only
permitted for a reasonable time to allow for repairs, not to exceed a period of
two (2) months. Where windows or doors are not missing or broken, only wire
mesh may be used to cover the windows or doors, and only for a period of sixty
(60) days or less.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â For vacant buildings, use of boards, planks of wood, or wire mesh shall
be permitted for a period not to exceed six (6) months to allow for repair,
remodeling or new occupancy.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Violations of this section are declared to be a public nuisance and may
be abated or enjoined by action of the village. (Ord. 2003-08, 11-17-2003)
CHAPTER 3
ELECTRICAL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Electrical Code Adopted
9-3-2: Electrical Inspection Department
9-3-3: Electrical Permit
9-3-1: ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Adoption: A certain document, one copy of which is on file in the
office of the Village Clerk of the Village of Broadview, being marked and
designated as the National Electrical Code, 2014 edition, be and is hereby
adopted as the electrical code of the Village of Broadview.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Permit Fees And Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Upon application for an electrical permit, all electrical
contractors shall furnish to the Building Commissioner the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â A five thousand dollar ($5,000.00) license permit bond, made to
the Village, said bond to be in effect for a minimum of one year. A fifty
dollar ($50.00) contractor's registration fee good for one year and a copy of
the contractor's electrical license.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â A shop drawing or thorough description of the proposed work, to
be supplemented with additional documentation if requested by the Building
Commissioner.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The name of the supervising electrician on the job site.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â In addition, the contractor shall pay the required permit fee, based
upon the following schedule:
Â Â Â PERMIT FEE SCHEDULE
Service Fee
Service                                                                         Fee
Additional or new circuits:                                                     Â 
Â Â Â Additional or new circuits of 10 or less (per service)                    $100.00
Â Â Â Additional or new circuits of 11 or 20 (per service)                      $200.00
Â Â Â Additional or new circuits of 21 or 40 (per service)                      $400.00
Â Â Â Additional or new circuits of 41 or 80 (per service)                      $1,000.00
Â Â Â Additional or new circuits of 81 or more (per service)                    $1,500.00
Installation of electrical service:                                             Â 
Â Â Â Installation of electrical service 400 amps or less                       $150.00
Â Â Â Installation of electrical service more than 400 amps but less than 1,000 $300.00
amps
Â Â Â Installation of electrical service 1,000 amps or more                     $600.00
Low voltage:                                                                    Â 
Â Â Â Low voltage - residential                                                 $75.00
Â Â Â Low voltage - multi-unit                                                  $100.00
Â Â Â Low voltage - industrial and commercial                                   $125.00
Generators:                                                                     Â 
Â Â Â Generators - residential                                                  $75.00
Â Â Â Generators - multi-unit                                                   $100.00
Â Â Â Generators - commercial or industrial                                     $125.00
Repair, replacement, alteration, or installation:                               Â 
Â Â Â Residential                                                               $75.00
Â Â Â Multi-unit                                                                $100.00
Â Â Â Industrial or commercial                                                  $125.00
                                                                                Cost of
                                                                                consultant
Plan review and inspection fees (all trades)                                    plus 15%
                                                                                administrative
                                                                                fee
Â 
(Ord. 96-6, 8-5-1996; amd. Ord. 13-46, 8-19-2013; Ord. 2020-5, 2-18-2020)
9-3-2: ELECTRICAL INSPECTION DEPARTMENT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Department Created, Composition, Functions: There is hereby established
an Electrical Inspection Department for the regulation of the installation,
alteration and use of all electrical equipment as herein provided. Said
Electrical Inspection Department shall consist of the chief electrical
inspector of the Village and shall be charged with the duty of enforcing the
provisions of the rules and regulations relating to the installation and use of
electrical equipment as provided by this Code and chapter, and shall function
under the immediate supervision and control of the chief electrical inspector.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Chief Electrical Inspector:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Office Created, Qualifications, Appointment: There is hereby created
the office of chief electrical inspector. The person chosen to fill said office
shall be a competent electrician of good moral character who shall have had at
least two (2) years' experience as a journeyman in the practice of his or her
trade or two (2) years' training in a recognized college of electrical
engineering, and, in addition thereto, one year of practical experience in
electrical construction. He or she shall be well-versed in approved methods of
electrical construction for safety to life and property, the Statutes of the
State relating to electrical work, the rules and regulations issued by the Fire
Marshal of Illinois under the authority of the statutes, the Electrical Code,
and other installation and safety rules and standards approved by the American
Engineering Standards Association; provided however, that should it not be
possible to obtain any person with the aforementioned qualifications, the
Village President and Board of Trustees shall appoint the Building Commissioner
or such other person, at their discretion, who shall be qualified to fill the
office of chief electrical inspector.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Term Of Office, Bond, Oath: The chief electrical inspector shall be
appointed for one year by the President and Board of Trustees and before
entering upon the discharge of his duties, shall file a bond, with security to
be approved by the Board in the sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00),
payable to the Village. Said bond shall be approved by the Board of Trustees
and shall be conditioned upon the faithful performance of his duties. The chief
electrical inspector shall also take and subscribe an oath faithfully to
discharge the duties of his or her office, which oath, together with the
certificate of his appointment, shall be filed with the Village Clerk.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Powers: The chief electrical inspector shall have the right during
reasonable hours to enter any building in the discharge of his official duties,
or for the purpose of making any inspection or test of the installation or
alteration of electrical equipment contained therein, and shall have the
authority to cause the turning off of any current where such electrical
currents are dangerous to life or property or may interfere with the work of
the Fire Department.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Enforcement And Interpretation: The chief electrical inspector,
supervising enforcement of this chapter has the responsibility for making
interpretations of the rules for deciding upon approval of equipment and
materials, and for granting special permission contemplated in a number of the
rules.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Inspections, Certificate Of Approval: The Building Commissioner
shall inspect or shall cause to be inspected all electrical equipment installed
or altered, except such electrical equipment as may be lawfully exempt and
shall require that it conform to the electrical regulations of the National
Electrical Code, 2014 edition. These inspections shall be made at reasonable
hours to accommodate the hours of the electrical inspector's part-time
availability. It shall also be unlawful to cover up any electrical installation
without having had it first inspected and approved.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Extra Inspections: Where extra inspections have to be made due to
inaccurate or incorrect information, failure to make necessary repairs, or
faulty construction or mechanical execution of work, a fee of thirty dollars
($30.00) shall be made before the inspection. (Ord. 96-6, 8-5-1996; amd. Ord.
2020-5, 2-18-2020)
9-3-3: ELECTRICAL PERMIT 1 :
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Permit Required: Upon the regular adoption of the standards and
specifications, rules, and regulations, and fees referred to in subsection
9-3-1B2 of this chapter, the same shall at once become effective, and
thereafter no electrical equipment shall be installed or altered except upon a
permit first issued by the Electrical Inspection Department.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Permit Fees: The permit fees for the issuance of electrical
installation permits shall be governed by the fee schedule as set forth in
subsection
9-3-1B2. (Ord. 96-6, 8-5-1996; amd. Ord. 2020-5, 2-18-2020)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See title 3, chapter 10 of this Code.
CHAPTER 4
PLUMBING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Plumbing Code Adopted
9-4-2: Plumbing Inspector
9-4-3: Plumbing Permit
9-4-4: Plumbing Facilities And Requirements
9-4-5: Water Cooled Air Conditioning And Refrigeration
9-4-5-1: Definitions
9-4-5-2: Installation Regulations
9-4-5-3: Inspections
9-4-5-4: Appeals
9-4-5-5: Penalty
9-4-1: PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED:
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
village clerk of the village of Broadview, being marked and designated as title
77 "public health", chapter 1 "department of public health", subchapter r
"water and sewage", part 890 "Illinois plumbing code" be and is hereby adopted
as the municipal code for plumbing for the village of Broadview, in the state
of Illinois for regulating and governing the installation, condition and
maintenance of plumbing for all property, buildings and structures; by
providing the standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other
physical things and conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe,
sanitary and fit for occupation and use; providing for the issuance of permits
and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Illinois plumbing code on
file in the office of the village of Broadview are hereby referred to, adopted,
and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this section, with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed herein. (Ord.
10-04, 3-15-2010)
9-4-2: PLUMBING INSPECTOR:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Office Created, Appointment, Qualifications: There is hereby created
the office of plumbing inspector, an executive office of the village. The
plumbing inspector shall be appointed by the president and board of trustees
and shall be licensed under the Illinois plumbing license law 1 .
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Duties: It shall be the duty of the plumbing inspector, and he is
hereby empowered, to enforce all provisions of this code and other village
ordinances relating to the installation, care and standards of plumbing. He
shall make all necessary inspections and tests which may be necessary in the
performance of his duties.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Stop Work Order: Whenever the plumbing inspector shall find plumbing
work being done in violation of this code or any village ordinance, he shall
have the power to order the work stopped until the provisions of this code or
ordinances are complied with. It shall be unlawful to continue any such work
after such a stop order has been issued, except upon the written permission of
the village president or of the plumbing inspector; provided, that when such
stop order is made orally, it shall be followed by a written order within one
hour. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 32011 et seq.
9-4-3: PLUMBING PERMIT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Permit Required: No person shall install, repair, connect or alter any
plumbing within the village without a permit therefor from the plumbing
inspector; provided, however, that this shall not apply to minor home repairs
by the owner or occupant.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Issuance Of Permit, Fees: The building commissioner or plumbing
inspector shall issue a permit upon application in all cases where the proposed
installation or alteration as described in such application is found to be in
conformity with this chapter, upon payment by the applicant of the fees set out
in subsection 9-2-3D1 of this title.
A plumbing fixture shall be any bathtub, laundry tub, sink, toilet, lavatory,
shower, urinal, fountain, floor drain, sump pump, ejector pump or water
heating, cooling, or storage device.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Bond Required: Any application for a permit to do or install any
plumbing work in connection with the village waterworks system or sewer work or
connection with the sewer works system must be accompanied by a bond as
described in subsection 8-5-5B of this code. (1987 Code)
9-4-4: PLUMBING FACILITIES AND REQUIREMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Safety Devices For Hot Water Heaters 1 : Every water heater, hot water
tank or vessel in which water is heated or stored under pressure or to which a
water-heating device or appliance is attached, installed, replaced or repaired
in the Village, shall have installed in connection therewith, an approved,
fully automatic, combination pressure and temperature relief device. The
temperature relief of such device shall be set to operate at two hundred
degrees Fahrenheit (200Â°F) and the pressure relief shall be set to operate at
seventy five (75) pounds per square inch maximum pressure. Such relief device
shall be placed either directly in the tank in a tapping provided for this
purpose not over six inches (6") down from the top of the tank, or in the hot
water supply line leading from and within three inches (3") of the tank.
Connections between the relief device and the tank it is to protect shall not
be less than three-quarter inch (3/4") iron pipe size. No shut-off valves shall
be installed between any relief device and the tank it is to protect, nor shall
any shut-off valve be used between the heater and the tank. All such
combination temperature and pressure relief devices shall be listed by the
American Gas Association and shall be of the self-closing or sealing type and
provided with lifting lever for manual operation to minimize sticking of the
working parts.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Basements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Sewer Ejector Pump Required: Basement plumbing facilities in any
apartments or living units shall be connected to an automatic sewer ejector
pump which shall pump into a loop which extends for a minimum height of six
feet six inches (6'6") above the basement floor. The ejector must be readily
accessible for maintenance and repair and installed in the sewer line between
such plumbing facilities in the house and the lateral sewer. The Village Board
of Trustees may waive the provisions of this subsection when, after a hearing
before the Building Committee of the Village Board of Trustees, conditions of
sewer depth, size gradient, topography and other circumstances indicate that
overloading of existing sewer facilities will not occur.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Overhead Plumbing Required: After December 31, 1970, all new
buildings with basements, floors, rooms or occupancy areas below ground level
at the building site and served by a public or private sewer system, shall have
overhead plumbing.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Piping Materials: All piping from the house service line to backflow
devices shall be of lead, type K copper or galvanized pipe when exposed inside
the building.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Minimum Water Pressure: A minimum pressure to operate one closet and
lavatory shall be maintained for each living unit.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Water-Saving 1 : All plumbing fixtures installed within the Broadview
Water Service Area, whether inside or outside of the Village corporate limits,
must be water-saving fixtures in conformance with the requirements of Village
plumbing code.
All ratings of water-saving plumbing fixtures are based on a pressure at the
fixture of forty to fifty (40â€“50) psi.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Water Closets: Each water closet tank shall have a flushing capacity
of three and one-half (3.5) gallons per flush.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Flushometer Valves: Flushometer valves or direct flush valves shall
be so installed that they will be readily accessible for repairing. When the
valve is operated, it shall complete the cycle of operation automatically,
opening fully and closing positively under the service pressure. At each
operation, the valve shall deliver three (3.0) gallons of water to the fixture
and the fixture will be designed that this amount of water will thoroughly
flush the fixture and refill the fixture trap. Not more than one fixture shall
be served by a flushometer valve or direct flush valve and protection against
backflow shall be provided.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Urinals: Every urinal shall be flushed by means of an approved
flushing tank, flushometer valve or direct flush valve each using only three
(3.0) gallons per flush.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Faucets: All lavatories shall be supplied with faucets that will use
only three (3.0) gallons of water per minute. Lavatories located in restrooms
for public use shall have faucets that are a metering or self-closing types.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Shower Heads: All shower heads will use only three (3.0) gallons of
water per minute.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Car Washes 1 : All car wash installations, new or replacement, shall be
equipped with a water-recycling system. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See also Section
  9-5-2 of this Title, E.S.-504.4.1.
1 1. See also Section
  8-4-8 of this Code.
1 1. See Title 3, Chapter 14 of this Code.
9-4-5: WATER-COOLED AIR CONDITIONING AND REFRIGERATION:
9-4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise expressly stated, whenever used in this Section, the following
words shall have the meanings given to them by this Section:
AIR CONDITIONING: The cooling by water or dehumidification or both, of space
for human occupancy, food preservation and industrial processing.
AIR-CONDITIONING SYSTEM OR AIR-CONDITIONING INSTALLATION: One or more water-
cooled air-conditioning units, the water for which passes through a common
meter, whether or not the units are owned by the property owner, the tenant or
a combination of both. It is intended that separate submetering for any one
property owner or tenant occupying different space in the same building could
create separate systems. It is not intended that submetering of individual
units serving the same space or adjacent space under one owner or tenant would
create separate systems.
INSTALLED CAPACITY: The total number of tons of refrigeration installed on one
water-cooled air-conditioning system.
TON OF REFRIGERATION: The heat required to melt ice at the rate of one ton in
twenty four (24) hours. One compressor horsepower shall be considered
equivalent to one ton of refrigeration.
WATER CONSERVING DEVICES: A cooling tower, spray pond, evaporation condenser or
other equipment by which water is cooled and recirculated, thereby limiting the
use of water from the mains to that amount lost through evaporation.
WATER REGULATING DEVICE: A regulating valve or other device, the purpose of
which is to limit the maximum use of water to a predetermined rate. (1987 Code)
9-4-5-2: INSTALLATION REGULATIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to have installed or to operate water-
cooled air-conditioning equipment without first conforming to the following
regulations:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Permit Required: All water customers who desire to install water-cooled
air conditioning and refrigeration are required to make written application
therefor and to obtain approval and a permit therefor in advance from the
Building Commissioner and are required to give notice of completion of the
installation.
All customers who have installed water-cooled air- conditioning equipment prior
to the effective date hereof shall, in lieu of a permit, notify the Building
Commissioner of such existing installation. Failure to give notice shall be
considered a violation of this Section.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Permit Fee: The fee for the permit provided for herein shall be twenty
five dollars ($25.00).
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Water Conservation Devices Required: All water-cooled air- conditioning
units shall be equipped with water conservation devices so that water from the
Village mains shall be used for make-up and flushing purposes only. Any water-
cooled air- conditioning system is prohibited from using water from the mains
in excess of two-tenths (0.2) gallons per minute per ton. Each such air-
conditioning system shall be submetered using a water meter acceptable to the
Village.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â System Installed Prior To These Regulations Must Be Connected: All
water-cooled air-conditioning units installed prior to the effective date
hereof, and contrary thereto, must be converted, modified or adjusted to comply
with the provisions of this Section within six (6) months of the effective date
hereof.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Location: Whenever it shall be necessary, for the proper operation of a
water-cooled air-conditioning system having a rated heat removal capacity in
excess of twenty thousand (20,000) British thermal units per hour, to install
any portion of such air-conditioning equipment therefor, including, but not
limited to, condensers or compressors, outside the building whose atmosphere
said system is intended to cool, such equipment shall be located in "A" Single-
Family Residence Districts and "B" Multiple-Family Residence Districts to the
rear of such building and shall not exceed an area of eighteen (18) square
feet, nor be more than five feet (5') high. Nothing herein shall be construed
to regulate the installation of water-cooled air-conditioning systems in any
use district not specified hereinabove. (1987 Code)
9-4-5-3: INSPECTIONS:
The Director of Public Works and Water and persons designated by him shall at
all reasonable hours have free access to premises supplied with water for air-
conditioning purposes to examine the equipment and to ascertain if there is
more water being used than allowed by this Section. (1987 Code)
9-4-5-4: APPEALS:
Whenever the Building Commissioner shall reject or refuse to approve any plan
or specification for, or the mode or manner of construction proposed to be used
in, the installation of any water-cooled air-conditioning equipment, or when it
is claimed that the provisions of this Section do not apply, or when it is
claimed that the true intent and meaning of this Section have been misconstrued
or improperly interpreted, the owner or any person aggrieved may appeal to the
Board of Trustees. No public advertising shall be required as a condition
precedent to such appeal and the decision of the Board of Trustees shall be
final. (1987 Code)
9-4-5-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Section
9-4-5 shall be fined not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than fifty
dollars ($50.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1987
Code)
CHAPTER 5
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
9-5-1: Adoption
9-5-2: Local Modifications
9-5-1: ADOPTION:
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
village clerk of the village of Broadview, being marked and designated as the
international property maintenance code, 2009 edition, as published by the
International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the international
property maintenance code of the village of Broadview, in the state of Illinois
for regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property,
buildings and structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and
facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that
structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the
condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use and
the demolition of such structures as herein provided; providing for the
issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said international
property maintenance code on file in the office of the village of Broadview are
hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in
this section, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed herein.
Section 101.1 "Title", of the international property maintenance code is hereby
repealed and replaced with the following:
101.1 Title
These regulations shall be known as the international property maintenance code
of the village of Broadview herein referred to as "this code."
Section 103.5 "Fees", of the international property maintenance code is hereby
repealed.
Section 112.4 "Failure To Comply", of the international property maintenance
code is hereby repealed and replaced with the following:
112.4 Failure To Comply
Any person who shall continue any work after having been served with a stop
work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a
violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable to a fine of not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) or more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
Section 302.4 "Weeds" of the international property maintenance code is hereby
repealed and replaced with the following:
302.4 Weeds
All premises and exterior property shall be maintained free from weeds or plant
growth in excess of eight (8) inches. All noxious weeds shall be prohibited.
Weeds shall be defined as all grasses, annual plants and vegetation, other than
trees or shrubs provided; however this term shall not include cultivated
flowers and gardens.
Upon failure of the owner or agent having charge of a property to cut and
destroy weeds after service of a notice of violation, they shall be subject to
prosecution in accordance with section 106.3 and as prescribed by the authority
having jurisdiction. Upon failure to comply with the notice of violation any
duly authorized employee of the jurisdiction or contractor hired by the
jurisdiction shall be authorized to enter upon the property in violation and
cut and destroy the weeds growing thereon, and the costs of such removal shall
be paid by the owner or agent responsible for the property.
Section 304.14 "Insect Screens", of the international property maintenance code
is hereby repealed and replaced with the following:
304.14 Insect Screens
During the period of January 1 to December 31, every door, window and other
outside opening required for ventilation of habitable rooms, food preparation
areas, food service areas or any areas where products to be included or
utilized in food for human consumption are processed, manufactured, packaged or
stored shall be supplied with approved tightly fitting screens of not less than
16 mesh per inch (16 mesh per 25 mm), and every screen door used for insect
control shall have a self closing device in good working condition.
Section 602.3 "Heat Supply", of the international property maintenance code is
hereby repealed and replaced with the following:
602.3 Heat Supply
Every owner and operator of any building who rents, leases, or lets one or more
dwelling units or sleeping units on terms, either expressly or implied, to
furnish heat to the occupants thereof shall supply heat during the period from
October 1 to May 1 to maintain a temperature of not less than 68 degrees F (20
degrees C) in all habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms.
Exceptions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â When the outdoor temperature is below the winter outdoor design
temperature for the locality, maintenance of the minimum room temperature shall
not be required provided that the hearing system is operating at its full
design capacity. The winter outdoor design temperature for the locality shall
be as indicated in appendix D of the international plumbing code.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â In areas where the average monthly temperature is above 30 degrees F
(-1 degree C) a minimum temperature of 65 degrees F (18 degrees C) shall be
maintained.
Section 602.4 "Occupiable Work Spaces", of the international property
maintenance code is hereby repealed and replaced with the following:
602.4 Occupiable Work Spaces. Indoor occupiable work spaces shall be supplied
with heat during the period from October 1 to May 1 to maintain a temperature
of not less than 65 degrees F (18 degrees C).
Exceptions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Processing, storage and operation areas that require cooling or
special temperature conditions.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Areas in which persons are primarily engaged in vigorous physical
activities.
(Ord. 09-33, 8-3-2009)
9-5-2: LOCAL MODIFICATIONS:
The following additions to, deletions and modifications of the basic/national
existing structures code, first edition, 1984 (or latest edition), as
specified, shall become a part of this chapter:
Section E.S.-100.1: Insert village of Broadview, Illinois in the second line of
this section, to replace (name of jurisdiction).
Section E.S.-104.1: Add a sentence to the end of this section to read:
For the purposes of administration and enforcement of this code, the village of
Broadview building commissioner or his nominee shall act as code official.
Section E.S.-110.2: Delete the contents of this section and substitute in lieu
thereof the following:
Any person, firm or corporation, who shall violate any provision of this code
shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not less than twenty
five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), and any
failure to pay any such fine shall be subject to imprisonment for a term not to
exceed one hundred eighty (180) days for any offense. Each day the violation
continues after due notice has been served, in accordance with the terms and
provisions hereof, shall be deemed a separate offense.
In addition to the fines and penalties enumerated above, the court, in its
discretion, may impose court supervision upon the defendant for a period not to
exceed six (6) months upon such terms and conditions as the court shall deem
proper.
Section E.S.-111.2: Insert president of the village of Broadview with the
consent of the board of trustees in the last line of this section to replace
(chief executive of the jurisdiction).
Section E.S.-112.1: Delete the contents of this section.
Section E.S.-112.4: Insert thirty in the second line of this section, to
replace (number).
Section E.S.-201.0: Delete applied meanings of the following words and terms:
all under dwellings, family, hotel, motel, rooming house, and yard.
Section E.S.-301.0: Add the following under this section:
E.S.-301.12: Access to garbage storage area: It shall be the responsibility of
owners of property to remove snow and ice in such a manner as to allow ready
access to garbage storage areas for tenants and scavenger services.
E.S.-301.13: General Maintenance Of Exterior Premises: The owner and operator
shall keep the exterior of all premises and every structure thereon including
but not limited to walls, roofs, cornices, chimneys, drains, towers, porches,
landings, fire escapes, stairs, store fronts, signs, windows, doors, awnings
and marquees in good repair, and all surfaces thereof shall be kept painted or
protected with other approved coating or material where necessary for the
purpose of preservation and avoiding a blighting influence on adjoining
properties. All obsolete signs shall be removed. All surfaces shall be
maintained free of broken glass, loose shingles, crumbling mortar or brick,
peeling paint or other conditions reflective of deterioration or inadequate
maintenance, to the end that the property itself may be preserved safely, fire
hazards eliminated, and adjoining properties and the neighborhood protected
from blighting influences.
(1987 Code)
E.S.-301.14: Lawns And Hedges: All premises shall be appropriately maintained
and lawns, hedges, bushes, trees, and other vegetation shall be kept trimmed
and from becoming overgrown and unsightly where exposed to public view or where
such vegetation may constitute a blighting influence on adjoining property.
Violations of this section are subject to the penalty provisions contained in
title 1, chapter 13 of this code, with each day of a continuing violation
constituting a separate offense. However, this provision shall not preclude the
maintenance of undeveloped or underdeveloped land in its natural state.
(Ord. 2005-22, 8-8-2005)
E.S.-403.4: Dwelling Unit Limitations: Add new section E.S.-403.4: Cellars: No
cellar space shall be used as a habitable room or dwelling unit.
Section E.S.-504.4: Add 504.4.1:
All water heaters shall be equipped with the proper size relief valve for that
heater as per section 834.62 of the Chicago plumbing code. The stem of the
relief valve is to be immersed in the top six inches (6") of the tank and the
discharge pipe to be same size as the opening in the relief valve and to within
six inches (6") of the floor. 1
Section E.S.-506.1: Add:
Water being drained from those areas including sump pumps and swimming pools is
not to be drained on any adjoining property.
Section E.S.-602.0: Electrical Facilities: Add the following under this
section:
E.S.-602.4: Minimum Service: Sixty (60) ampere service is the minimum size
service permitted. Any service less than sixty (60) amperes is substandard and
inadequate and must be replaced. One hundred (100) ampere service is the
minimum size new or replacement service permitted.
E.S.-602.5: Fuses/Circuit Breakers: Maximum fuse/circuit breaker sizes
consistent with safety shall be posted conspicuously on the inside cover of all
fuse/circuit breaker boxes, and no fuses/circuit breakers shall be installed in
excess of the stated maximum.
E.S.-602.6: Shock Hazards: All existing or potential short circuits or breaks
in any electric line shall be immediately corrected and all obvious shock
hazards shall be removed or corrected.
E.S.-602.7: Fixtures And Outlets: Every fixture and outlet shall function
properly and be securely fastened in place.
E.S.-602.8: Temporary Wiring: No temporary wiring shall be used, with the
exception of extension cords which run directly from portable electric
appliances or fixtures to convenience outlets, and which do not lie underneath
floor covering materials or extend through doorways, or similar apertures
through structural elements.
(1987 Code)
Section PM-103.1, as modified, shall be deleted in its entirety, and inserted
in lieu thereof shall be the following:
Section PM-103.1 - Enforcement. For the purposes of administration and
enforcement of this code, the village building commissioner shall act as code
official, and the building commissioner and such inspectors as designated by
the building commissioner, shall be code enforcement officers.
Section PM-109.2 of the property maintenance code, as modified, shall be
deleted in its entirety and, inserted in lieu thereof shall be the following:
Section PM-109.2 - Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation accused of
violating any section of this code, shall first be issued a written warning to
correct the violation within seven (7) days of the date of the warning.
If upon reinspection, the violation is corrected, no further action will be
taken. If, upon reinspection the violation still exists, the building
commissioner or building inspector shall issue a notice of property maintenance
code violation requiring a court appearance by the violator in thirty (30)
days.
Any person, firm or corporation may settle or compromise the violation by
paying the village of Broadview the sum of twenty dollars ($20.00) and showing
proof of correction of the purported violation within seven (7) days after the
date of the notice, or by paying to the village of Broadview the sum of thirty
dollars ($30.00) and showing proof of correction of the purported violation
after said seven (7) day period and prior to the court date set forth in the
notice of violation.
In the event the purported violation is not so corrected, settled or
compromised, then any person, firm or corporation, upon being found guilty of a
violation of this code, shall be subject to a fine not to exceed two hundred
dollars ($200.00). Each day that a violation continues, after due notice as
provided herein, shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 87-14, 10-19-1987)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 9-4-4A of this title.
CHAPTER 6
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
SECTION:
9-6-1: Dangerous Buildings Declared A Nuisance
9-6-2: Report Of Dangerous Buildings, Inspections
9-6-3: Action By Village
9-6-4: Buildings In Fire Limits
9-6-5: Cost Of Repairs Or Demolition
9-6-1: DANGEROUS BUILDINGS DECLARED A NUISANCE:
Any building or part thereof, or any structure of like nature, in a condition
dangerous to the occupants, or those passing, or to any adjacent buildings by
reason of bad condition of walls, overloaded floors, defective heating
apparatus, vibrations from machinery, defective flues, confined or cramped
stairways, insufficient exits, narrow or dark passageways, or which is unsafe
or dangerous for the purpose for which it is used or intended to be used, or is
in danger of being set on fire from any defect in its construction, or is
especially dangerous in case of fire by reason of its dilapidated condition or
defective construction, or from other causes, or which may be prejudicial to
the public health or the health of the inhabitants of the neighborhood, shall
be deemed and is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. (1987 Code)
9-6-2: REPORT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS, INSPECTIONS:
Whenever it shall come to the knowledge of the Building Commissioner or
whenever complaint shall be made to him in writing by any two (2) reputable
citizens, that any building, wall or structure within the Village is in such
dangerous condition as described in the preceding Section, the Building
Commissioner shall forthwith report the same to the Board of Trustees.
The Building Commissioner shall inspect or cause to be inspected all buildings
reported unsafe and shall make or cause to be made and preserved records of all
such inspections. For the purpose of making such inspections, the Building
Commissioner shall have the right to visit, enter and inspect from time to
time, at all reasonable hours, any building or structure in the Village which
such officer has reason to believe is in a dangerous or defective condition in
regard to its construction or through damage by fire, accident, lack of repair
or decay. (1987 Code)
9-6-3: ACTION BY VILLAGE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Removal Or Repair Of Building: If it shall appear to the Board of
Trustees, after due investigation of the report required by Section
9-6-2 of this Chapter, that such building, wall or structure is in such
dangerous condition, and the owner or his agent, or the lessee or occupant
thereof, if within his power or duty so to do, shall fail within a reasonable
time, to be fixed by the Board of Trustees, and after notice thereof in writing
served on such owner or his agent or upon such lessee or occupant, by such
officer of the Village as the Board of Trustees shall direct, specifying
wherein such building is unsafe, defective or unlawful, to make the same safe
in such way as the Board of Trustees may direct, the building, wall or
structure shall, upon the order of the Board of Trustees, be torn down and
removed by the Building Commissioner or made safe as the Board of Trustees may
order.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Buildings To Be Placarded: Every building which shall appear to the
Building Commissioner to be especially dangerous in case of fire by reason of
bad conditions of walls, overloaded floors, defective construction, decay or
other causes, shall be held to be an unsafe building, and the Building
Commissioner, in addition to preceding as provided in subsection A of this
Section, shall also affix a notice of the dangerous character of the building
in a conspicuous place on the exterior wall thereof, and any person removing,
defacing or disturbing such notice so affixed shall be liable to the penalties
provided for in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for any violation thereof.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Right Of Immediate Action: In case the Building Commissioner finds any
building or part of a building in such condition as to endanger life, or liable
to cause serious accident, and that such danger may be averted by the immediate
application of precautionary measures, the officer shall have and exercise the
power (without the preliminary direction of the Board of Trustees), to take
such precautionary measures as in his opinion may be necessary to render any
building or part thereof safe; provided, the owner, lessee, occupant or agent
of the building refuses or neglects to take such precautionary measures after
being notified so to do by the officer. The decision and order of the officer
shall be absolute and final.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Buildings To Be Vacated: The Building Commissioner may order that no
person shall be permitted to enter, occupy or use a dangerous building or any
portion thereof until the same shall have been made safe, and may post such
order in a conspicuous place on the exterior wall of such building. No person
shall enter, occupy or use (except for the purpose of repairing and making the
same safe) any building or portion thereof after the posting of such notice
until such building or portion thereof shall have been made safe.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Suspension, Revocation Of Licenses: Pursuant to subsection D of this
section, if the building or portion thereof found dangerous shall be devoted to
any purpose requiring a license, the President may suspend the license pending
the period of making repairs; and he may revoke the license in case of failure
on the part of the owner or party having an interest in such unsafe building or
portion thereof, to make same safe without delay and at their expense. (1987
Code)
9-6-4: BUILDINGS IN FIRE LIMITS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Restriction: No building of frame construction shall be erected, nor
shall any frame addition be made to any existing building within the fire
limits of the Village 1 . No frame building within the fire limits shall be
remodeled or substantially altered, except in case such changes serve to reduce
the fire hazard.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Repairs: Buildings of frame construction within the fire limits which
have been damaged by fire or other agencies to an extent greater than fifty
percent (50%) of their value shall not be repaired or replaced, except by
buildings of other than frame construction. Frame buildings which have been
damaged by fire or other agencies to an extent not greater than fifty percent
(50%) of their value may be repaired, provided there is no increase in the size
of such buildings over their original dimensions, and provided that combustible
roof coverings shall not be used.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Roofs And Walls: All buildings within the fire limits shall have roof
coverings of tile, slate, metal, approved asbestos shingles or other roofings
of like grade which would rank as Class A or B under test specifications of the
National Board of Fire Underwriters and no building shall be constructed within
the fire limits unless its exterior walls are built of nonflammable material.
(1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See section
  5-2-5 of this Code.
9-6-5: COST OF REPAIRS OR DEMOLITION:
An itemized account of the expense of tearing down and removing the dangerous
structure, or of putting the same into safe condition shall be kept by the
Building Commissioner and shall be presented to the owner of the structure or
his agent, or to such lessee or occupant for payment, and in case such owner,
lessee or occupant, as the case may be, shall fail or refuse, upon demand, to
pay the same, then the same may be recovered from such owner, lessee or
occupant in an action of debt in the name of the Village.
If the work has been done and expense incurred by the Village in connection
with dangerous buildings, a bill of the cost shall be rendered by the Village
to the owner, lessee, occupant or agent of the property. The Village may refuse
to issue a permit for the reconstruction, alteration or repair of any building
or portion thereof on the property involved until the expenditure incurred by
the Village on account of the work and material supplied has been repaid. (1987
Code)
CHAPTER 7
MOVING BUILDINGS 1
SECTION:
9-7-1: Permit Required
9-7-2: Application For Permit
9-7-3: Permit Fee, Deposits
9-7-4: Insurance Requirements
9-7-5: Warning Lights Required At Night
9-7-6: Prohibited Acts
9-7-7: Compliance With Code Provisions
Â 
Notes
1 1. See Title 3, Chapter 12 of this Code.
9-7-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No building shall be moved on or across any public street, walk, alley or other
public place within the Village by any person, except upon a permit duly issued
by the Village. (1987 Code)
9-7-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Any person desiring to move any building within the Village shall obtain a
permit after application therefor, presented to the Building Commissioner, upon
a form to be used for such purpose.
Before the permit required by this Chapter shall be granted to any person, the
application therefor shall designate or describe the building proposed to be
moved, where located, the place to which it is proposed to be moved, the route
to be taken and the time probably required for such moving. In addition to the
signing of such application, the applicant shall furnish to the Building
Commissioner the written consent of the owners, or their duly authorized
agents, of the majority of the frontage on both sides of the street where it is
proposed to locate such building, lying between the nearest intersecting
streets. If, upon consideration of such application and such inspection as the
Building Commissioner may deem necessary, it shall appear to said Commissioner
that the work proposed to be done is in accordance with the provisions of this
Code and other ordinances of the Village, the Building Commissioner, upon the
payment to the Village of the fees and deposits provided for herein shall grant
the permit sought for such purpose. (1987 Code)
9-7-3: PERMIT FEE, DEPOSITS:
Before the issuance of a permit, the applicant shall pay to the Village a sum
of money in payment for the occupancy of the street or streets through which
the building is proposed to be moved, said fee to be fifty cents ($0.50) per
foot from Village boundaries or within Village limits, but not to exceed one
thousand two hundred fifty dollars ($1,250.00) with a minimum limit of five
hundred dollars ($500.00). There shall also be deposited, in addition to the
fee herein provided for, the sum of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) to
reimburse the Village and any public utility company for the cost of removing
and replacing all overhead wires, cables and appurtenances and for the making
of the necessary repairs thereto. The applicant shall also deposit with the
Village the sum of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) to reimburse the Village
for any damage that might occur to any public structures in any street, alley
or public place over which the building may be moved. (1987 Code)
9-7-4: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS 1 :
Before any person to whom such permit may be issued shall enter upon the moving
of any building so authorized to be moved by such permit, he shall obtain from
some reliable insurance company, policies of liability insurance indemnifying
the Village for any damage or injury resulting to any of the workmen or
employees of such person engaged in the moving of such building, and also
indemnifying the Village for any damages or injury suffered by any other person
resulting from the moving of such building. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See Section 3-1-6 of this Code and Section 9-2-8 of this Title.
9-7-5: WARNING LIGHTS REQUIRED AT NIGHT:
On each and every night while such building remains on the public streets or
alleys of the Village, from dusk to sunrise, the person to whom such permit
shall be issued shall place and cause to be maintained at the center and each
end of such building, red lights, which lights shall be plainly visible during
the period above mentioned. (1987 Code)
9-7-6: PROHIBITED ACTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Obstructing Intersections And Railroad Crossings: No building which
shall be authorized to be moved in accordance with the terms of this Chapter
shall be permitted to stand or remain in the intersection of any streets, or of
any street and public alley, or upon any railroad or railway crossing at any
time during the course of its removal.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Injury To Pavement: It shall be unlawful for any person to whom such
permit shall be issued, to drive stakes in any pavement, public alley or at any
railroad or railway crossing. (1987 Code)
9-7-7: COMPLIANCE WITH CODE PROVISIONS:
No permit to move any building within the Village shall be granted unless the
construction and proposed use of such building on the proposed new site shall
conform to the requirements of this Chapter and of the zoning regulations 1 .
(1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See Title 10 of this Code.
CHAPTER 8
SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
(Rep. by Ord. 2001-24, 10-15-2001)
CHAPTER 8A
ROOSEVELT ROAD CORRIDOR
SECTION:
9-8A-1: Purpose
9-8A-2: Scope
9-8A-3: Definitions
9-8A-4: Exemptions
9-8A-5: Administration
9-8A-6: General Standards
9-8A-7: Computations
9-8A-8: Signs Allowed In Residential Zoning Districts
9-8A-9: Signs Allowed In Nonresidential Zoning Districts
9-8A-10: Permitted Extra Signs
9-8A-11: Unified Business Center Sign Plan
9-8A-12: Temporary Signs
9-8A-13: Legal Nonconforming Signs
9-8A-14: Signs In The Public Right Of Way
9-8A-15: Official, Corporate And Ancillary Flags
9-8A-16: Prohibited Signs
9-8A-17: Maintenance And Operation
9-8A-18: Violations
9-8A-19: Enforcement And Remedies
9-8A-20: Sign Diagrams
9-8A-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is established to create the standards for a comprehensive and
balanced system of sign regulations for the following purposes:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â To encourage, as a means of communication in the village, the
employment of signs which are:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Compatible with their surroundings.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Appropriate to the type of activity to which they pertain.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Expressive of the identity of individual proprietors.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Legible in the circumstances in which they are seen.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Respectful of the reasonable rights of other sign owners.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â To preserve, protect and promote the public health, safety and welfare.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â To improve pedestrian and traffic safety.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â To maintain and enhance community appearance and the village's ability
to attract sources of economic development by promoting the reasonable, orderly
and effective display of signs.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â To minimize the possible adverse effect of signs on nearby public and
private property.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â To preserve the value of private property by assuring the compatibility
of signs with surrounding land uses.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â To ensure that signs are designed as integral architectural elements of
the building and site to which they principally relate. (Ord. 2000-03, 3-20-
2000)
9-8A-2: SCOPE:
No sign on property adjacent to Roosevelt Road shall be constructed, erected,
converted, altered, rebuilt, enlarged, remodeled, relocated or expanded until a
permit for such sign has been obtained in accordance with the standards and
procedures set out in this chapter. However, no permit shall be required for
routine maintenance as defined herein. (Ord. 2000-03, 3-20-2000)
9-8A-3: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions noted below apply uniquely to this chapter and supersede any
conflicting definitions found in the zoning ordinance. Many of these
definitions are graphically depicted in section
9-8A-20 of this chapter.
ANIMATED SIGN: Any sign that uses movement or change of lighting to depict
action or create a special effect or scene.
AWNING: A structure made of cloth, metal or other material affixed to a
building in such a manner that the structure may be permanently affixed or
affixed in such a manner that it may be raised or retracted to a position
against the building.
AWNING SIGN: Any sign that is painted, printed or otherwise placed on the outer
surface of an awning in such a manner that the awning forms the background
surface of the sign.
BANNER SIGN: Any temporary sign of lightweight fabric or similar material that
is attached to a pole or building and secured on at least two (2) sides.
National flags, state or municipal flags, shall not be considered banners.
CANOPY AND MARQUEE SIGNS: A sign that is mounted or painted on, or attached to,
a canopy or marquee.
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN: A sign or portion thereof with characters, letters, or
illustrations that can be changed or rearranged. A sign on which the message
changes more than eight (8) times per day shall be considered an animated sign
and not a changeable copy sign for purposes of this chapter. A sign on which
the only copy that changes is an electronic or mechanical indication of time or
temperature shall be considered a "time and temperature" portion of a sign and
not a changeable copy sign for purposes of this chapter.
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN, ELECTRONIC: A type of sign or portion thereof that is
capable of displaying words, symbols or alphanumeric characters which are
defined by a small number of matrix elements using different combinations of
light emitting diodes (LEDs), fiber optics, light bulbs or other illumination
devices that can be electronically or automatically programmed and may be
changed by remote or automatic means. The following terms for such electronic
changeable copy signs shall be defined as follows:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Dissolve: A mode of message transition on an electronic changeable copy
sign accomplished by varying the light intensity or pattern, where one message
gradually appears to dissipate and lose legibility simultaneous to the gradual
appearance and legibility of a subsequent message.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Fade: A mode of message transition on an electronic changeable copy
sign accomplished by varying the light intensity, where one message gradually
reduces intensity to the point of not being legible and a subsequent message
gradually increases intensity to the point of legibility.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Nits: A luminance unit equal to one candle per square meter measured
perpendicular to the rays from the source.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Scroll: A mode of message transition on an electronic changeable copy
sign where the message is changed by the apparent vertical movement of the
letters or graphic elements of the message.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Static: Graphics on an electronic changeable copy sign having no motion
or movement of any type.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Travel: A mode of message transition on an electronic changeable copy
sign where the message is changed by the apparent horizontal movement of the
letters or graphic elements of the message.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Transition: A visual effect used on an electronic changeable copy sign
to change from one message to a subsequent message.
COMMERCIAL MESSAGE: Any sign wording, logo, or other representation that,
directly or indirectly, names, advertises, or calls attention to a business,
product, service, or other commercial activity.
COMPREHENSIVE SIGN PLAN: A sign plan approved by the planning commission
indicating the size and location of all signs to be located in a unified
business center.
CONSTRUCTION SIGN: A sign announcing the impending construction of a project,
limited to displaying the name of the project, the developer, the financial
institution providing the finance, the designer(s), the general contractor, a
phone number where more information may be obtained, and a date announcing the
planned completion of the project.
ERECT: To build, construct, attach, hang, rehang, place, affix, or relocate and
includes the painting or lettering of a sign.
EXTERNAL ILLUMINATION: Illumination of a sign which is produced by an
artificial source of light which is not contained within the sign itself.
FACADE: Any side, surface or wall below the roof of a building which is
parallel or within forty five degrees (45Â°) of parallel with a parcel's
frontage on a public thoroughfare, which faces toward and relates to that
public thoroughfare. If a building has a complex shape, then all walls or
surfaces facing in the same direction, or nearly the same direction, are part
of a single facade.
FLAG: Any fabric or bunting containing distinctive colors, patterns, or
symbols, used as a symbol of a government, political subdivision, or other
entity.
FLASHING SIGN: A directly or indirectly illuminated sign where the source of
illumination is not maintained constant or stationary in the intensity or color
at all times when such sign is in use.
FOR SALE/FOR LEASE/FOR RENT SIGNS: A sign which directs attention to a housing,
office, or retail development with space for sale, lease or rent.
FREESTANDING SIGN: Any sign not attached to a building; primarily ground signs,
pole signs, pylon signs, and portable signs.
GARAGE/YARD SALE SIGN: Any sign used in residential zoning districts to
advertise the sale of used, unwanted household goods.
GASOLINE STATION: A premises where motor fuels are sold for direct use by motor
vehicles.
GRADE: Established or finished elevation measured at the centerline of the
adjacent street.
GROUND SIGN: Any detached sign which has its bottom portion erected upon or
mounted on a base that is permanently set on the ground that is at least as
wide as the bottom side of the sign. Ground signs are also commonly known as
monument signs.
HISTORIC SIGN: A sign at least thirty (30) years old and which, by reason of
unique design, size configuration, or its product's/company's long association
with the village, is of extraordinary local significance, makes a contribution
to the cultural, historic, or aesthetic quality of the village's streetscape.
IDENTIFICATION SIGN: A sign where the text gives the name and address of a
building, business, development, or establishment. Such a sign may also be
wholly or partly devoted to a readily recognized symbol.
ILLUMINATED SIGN: Any sign which is lit by an artificial (usually electric)
light source.
INFLATABLE SIGN: Any sign or inflatable device of more than two (2) cubic feet
in capacity designed to be filled with air or a gas lighter than air, displayed
to attract the attention of the public. This definition shall include balloons
and balloon signs.
INSTRUCTIONAL SIGN: A sign, generally informational, that has a purpose
secondary to the use of the lot on which it is located, such as "no parking",
"entrance", "loading only", and other similar directives.
INTERNAL ILLUMINATION: The illumination of a sign which is produced by an
artificial source of light concealed or contained within the sign itself, and
which becomes visible in darkness through the translucent portion of the sign
face.
MARQUEE: Any hood or roof like structure of permanent construction supported
entirely by the building, and projecting from the building's wall.
MOVIE OR LIVE ENTERTAINMENT THEATER: A fully enclosed building with fixed or
movable seats arranged in an auditorium fashion, where motion pictures or live
entertainment acts are presented.
NONCONFORMING SIGN: Any sign that does not conform to the requirements of this
chapter.
OFF SITE SIGN: Any general outdoor advertising sign, which is designed to
advertise or direct attention to a business or activity conducted or a product,
commodity, service, real property, entertainment, or facilities offered or sold
elsewhere than on the same lot or within the same building upon which the sign
is located or to which it is affixed, or which directs persons to a location
different from where the sign is installed. The term "billboard" shall be
included in this definition.
OFFICER: The building inspector of the village of Broadview.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company,
or organization, singular or plural, of any kind.
POLE SIGN: A sign mounted on one or more freestanding pole(s) or pylons.
POLITICAL SIGN: Any sign displayed in conjunction with an official election or
referendum, used on behalf of candidates for elected public office or to
advocate a position on referenda.
PORTABLE SIGNS: Any sign attached to or mounted upon a frame intended to be
moved from place to place.
PROJECTING SIGN: A sign wholly or partly dependent upon a building for support,
and which projects more than twelve inches (12") in a perpendicular fashion
from such building.
RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE SIGN: A sign used to advertise the sale, lease or rent
of an individual home, apartment or property located in a residential zoning
district.
RESIDENTIAL SIGN: Any sign located in a district zoned for residential uses
that contains no commercial message except advertising for goods or services
legally offered on the premises where the sign is located.
ROOF SIGN: A sign mounted on the roof of a building.
SIGN: A name, identification, description, display, message, or illustration
which is affixed to, or represented directly or indirectly upon a building,
structure, or piece of land, and which directs attention to an object, product,
place, activity, person, institution, organization, or business.
SIGN CONTRACTOR: A person or entity who performs work for compensation in
connection with the erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair,
moving, improvement, maintenance, conversion or manufacture of any sign.
SIGN STRUCTURE: The sign and all parts associated with its mounting.
SIGN SUPPORTS: All structural features by which a sign is held up, including,
for example, poles, braces, guys, and anchors.
SIGN SURFACE AREA: The total exposed surface within a continuous perimeter
composed of a single rectangle enclosing the extreme limits of characters,
lettering, illustrations, ornamentations, or other figures, together with any
material, or color used as an integral part of the display or to differentiate
the sign from the background on which it is placed.
SUSPENDED SIGN: A sign that is suspended from the underside of a horizontal
plane surface and is supported by such surface.
TEMPORARY SIGN: Any sign designed, constructed, or erected to display a message
for a limited duration of time. Such signs include, but are not limited to,
banner, beacon or searchlight, garage/yard sale, grand opening, political,
portable, real estate, and special event signs, as well as any other sign which
by its definition and application in this chapter is designated as a temporary
sign.
UNIFIED BUSINESS CENTER: Premises containing three (3) or more individual
offices or businesses sharing a common building.
VILLAGE: The village of Broadview, Cook County, Illinois.
VILLAGE BOARD: The mayor and trustees of the village of Broadview.
WALL SIGN: Any sign attached parallel to and supported by a wall or building,
and within six inches (6") of such wall, or painted on the wall surface of any
building.
WINDOW AREA: Any transparent area on a facade through which the interior of a
premises may be viewed from outside.
WINDOW SIGN: Any sign which is affixed or placed so that its message or image
is read as a part of the total composition of a window area.
ZONING LOT OR LOTS: A single tract of land which is designated by its owner or
developer as a tract to be used, developed or built upon as a single unit,
under single control or ownership. It may be a single parcel separately
described in a deed or plat which is recorded in the office of the county
recorder of deeds, or it may include parts of or a combination of such parcels
when adjacent to one another and used as one lot. (Ord. 2000-03, 3-20-2000;
amd. Ord. 13-02, 1-22-2013)
9-8A-4: EXEMPTIONS:
The following signs shall be exempt from all but the maintenance and public
safety requirements of this chapter:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Government Signs: Any public notice, warning, directional, and other
instructional or regulatory signs required by a valid and applicable federal,
state, or local law, regulation, or ordinance.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Interior Signs: Any sign inside a building, not attached to a window or
door, which cannot be read from vehicles passing on adjoining streets.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Nonsign Decorations: Temporary displays, including holiday lights,
decorations, painted window areas, works of art, flags (not exceeding 50 square
feet), memorial signs, religious or historic symbols, and other displays with
no commercial message.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Traffic Control Signs: Traffic control signs on private property, such
as stop, yield, and similar signs which meet Illinois department of
transportation standards, and which contain no commercial message.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Memorial Signs: Memorial signs or tablets listing names of buildings
and date of erection, when cut into any masonry surface or inlaid so as to be
part of the building or when constructed of bronze or other incombustible
material.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Directional And Warning Signs: Signs, not exceeding five (5) square
feet in area, which provide instruction, direction or warning and are located
entirely on the property to which they pertain to identify restrooms, public
telephones, walkways, parking lot entrances and exits, and features of a
similar nature or with respect to warnings, "no trespassing", "no dumping", and
similar warning signs. Parking lot entrance and exit signs shall not exceed
five feet (5') in height.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Business Nameplates: Nonelectrical nameplates denoting the business
name of an occupation legally conducted on the premises, provided that the sign
area does not exceed two (2) square feet in area, provided that no more than
one sign per principal use may be erected.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Vending Machine Signs: Permanent, no flashing signs on vending
machines, gasoline pumps, ice containers, automated teller machines, or other
similar machines. Such signs shall relate only to that which is dispensed by
the machine. Such signs may be illuminated only on the front. Logos, names or
other promotional information shall be considered the permitted sign. (Ord.
2000-03, 3-20-2000)
9-8A-5: ADMINISTRATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Administrative Officer: The building inspector of the village is
designated to administer this section.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Permit Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Permit Required: Unless otherwise exempted in this chapter, no sign
shall be erected, structurally or graphically altered, or relocated without
having first obtained a valid permit for such sign, issued by the village. No
permit shall be required for routine maintenance of a sign.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Permit Application: Application for permits to erect, construct, or
alter a sign shall be submitted on a form and in the manner prescribed by the
building inspector. Each application shall be signed by the owner of the sign
and the owner of the property upon which it is to be located. Applications for
permits shall be accompanied by such information as may be required to assure
compliance with all applicable regulations. Information shall be submitted in
eight and one-half inch by eleven inch (81/2" x 11") format for easy
duplication. Submission requirements shall include:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â A drawing or drawings indicating the location of the building,
structure or lot to which or upon which the sign or advertising structure is to
be attached or erected;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â A drawing or photograph showing the position of the sign or
advertising structure in relation to structures;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Two (2) prints of the drawings and specifications, and color
renderings for the proposed sign or advertising structure, including the
methods of construction, illumination, materials and attachment to the
buildings or in the ground. Such drawings must include all text and graphics
proposed on the sign, drawn to scale with dimensions; legal nonconforming signs
can satisfy this requirement by submitting a photograph of the sign;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â If required by the building inspector, a copy of a statement by a
registered professional engineer indicating that said sign meets structural and
wind pressure requirements, and will not pose a public health or safety threat;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Name of person, firm, corporation or association responsible for
erecting the sign or advertising structure;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Written consent of the owner or agent of the zoning lot on which
the sign or advertising structure is to be erected;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â A completed application for any electrical permit required to be
issued for said sign or advertising structure;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â i.Â Â Â A master sign plan documenting all existing signs on the zoning
lot, including their type and area, location, and the occupant of the site to
which each sign pertains;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â j.Â Â Â Any additional information as the building inspector shall
require to show full compliance with this and all other applicable chapters of
this code; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â k.Â Â Â A landscape plan, including proposed location, quantity, size,
and species of required landscape improvements.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Application Review Procedures:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The following procedure must be followed for approval of a sign
permit:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Village Board Approval: Applications for all new permanent signs,
not previously located on the zoning lot, or changes to existing signs, shall
be submitted to the building inspector for review and recommendations. Such
recommendations shall be referred to the village board for final consideration.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Building Inspector Approval: Applications for all temporary signs
requiring a permit shall be reviewed and approved or denied by the building
inspector.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Planning Commission: Appeals from decisions of the building
inspector, and all variances to this chapter shall be considered by the
planning commission. All recommendations of the planning commission shall be
referred to the village board for final consideration.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Inspection Procedures:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Preinstallation Inspection: The person responsible for the
installation of a sign shall schedule with the building inspector a
preinstallation inspection prior to installing any sign requiring a permit.
Such inspection shall include a footing inspection, if applicable, and
confirmation of the other details of mounting and placement.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Final Inspection: The person responsible for the installation of a
sign shall notify the building inspector upon completion of the work to
schedule a final inspection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Six Month Deadline: If the work authorized under a permit has not
been completed within six (6) months after the date of issuance, the permit
shall be null and void.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Variations: It is the intent of this section to permit variations from
the requirements of this chapter only so as to recognize unusual hardships and
make reasonable accommodations for them.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Petition For Variation: A petition for a variation from any
provision(s) of this chapter may be made by any person having a proprietary
interest in the sign for which such variation is requested.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Petition Contents: A petition for a variation shall be filed in
writing with the building inspector and shall be accompanied by such documents
and information as are necessary to clearly exhibit the practical difficulty
for which the variation is necessary, including:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the
petitioner, the owner of the property on which the sign is to be erected or
affixed, the owner of the sign, and the person responsible for erecting or
affixing the sign.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â A description of the requested variation, including reference
to the section of this chapter from which relief is requested.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Justification of the requested variation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â The location of the premises on which the sign is to be
erected or affixed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â A site plan of the premises involved, showing accurate
placement thereon of the proposed sign.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â A print of the drawings and specifications describing the
sign to be erected or affixed and method of construction and attachment to the
building or in the ground. Such drawings and specifications shall include
details of dimensions, materials, color, and weight.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (7)Â Â Â The written consent of the owner of the premises on which the
sign is to be erected or affixed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (8)Â Â Â A fee, as determined by ordinance adopted by the village
board from time to time, to be paid at the time of filing of the petition for
variation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Hearing: The planning commission shall hold a public hearing on the
petition for variation within thirty (30) days of receipt of a completed
written application.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Hearing Notice: Notice shall be given of the time, place and
purpose of the public hearing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Required Attendance: The petitioner or its authorized
representatives shall attend the meetings of the board at which the variation
is to be heard.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Decision: Within fifteen (15) working days of the close of the
required public hearing on the variation, unless otherwise agreed to by the
petitioner, the planning commission shall prepare and submit written findings,
and by a majority vote, issue a recommendation to grant, deny, wholly or in
part, or modify said variation. Such recommendation will then be referred to
the village board for final consideration.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Standards: Variations shall only be approved to overcome an
exceptional condition which poses practical difficulty or particular hardship
in such a way as to prevent the display of a sign as intended by this chapter
or to preserve a historic sign with unique visual character. No variation shall
be granted unless the board finds that the petition meets each of the following
standards:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Unique Hardship: The proposed variation will not merely serve as
a convenience to the applicant, but will alleviate some demonstrable and
unusual hardship which would result if the strict letter of the regulations
were carried out and which is not generally applicable to other property within
the village.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Reasonable Return: The property in question cannot yield a
reasonable return if permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by
the regulations in this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Hardship Not Self-Created: The alleged hardship has not been
created by the petitioner nor any person presently having a proprietary
interest in the premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Consistent With Public Welfare: The proposed variation will not
be materially detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to other property
or improvements in the neighborhood. The proposed variation will not by itself
or with other signs contribute to the creation of visual distraction which may
lead to personal injury or a substantial reduction in the value of property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Graphic Effectiveness Demonstrated: The petitioner has
demonstrated that all reasonable efforts (utilizing color, contrast, lettering
legibility, illumination, and graphic composition) have been made to increase
the reading effectiveness of the proposed sign within the normal requirements
of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Consistent With Sign Ordinance Intent: The proposed variation is
in harmony with the intent, purpose, and objectives of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Conditions: Such conditions and restrictions may be imposed on the
premises to be benefited by a variation as may be necessary to comply with the
standards set forth herein, to reduce or minimize any injurious effect of such
variation on other property in the neighborhood, and to implement the general
intent, purpose, and objectives of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Revocation: In any case where a variation has been granted, and
where no work pertinent thereto has been initiated within six (6) months from
the date of approval of the requested variation, then without further action
said variation shall become null and void. (Ord. 2000-03, 3-20-2000)
9-8A-6: GENERAL STANDARDS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Applicable Regulations: In addition to the provisions of this chapter,
all signs must conform to the regulations and standards of all other applicable
chapters of this code.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Commercial Message Location: A sign which displays a commercial message
is permitted only on the premises where the business, profession,
accommodation, commodity, service, entertainment, or other commercial activity
represented on the sign is located.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Obstruction To Doors, Windows, Or Fire Escapes: No sign or advertising
structure shall be erected, relocated or maintained so as to prevent or inhibit
free ingress to, or egress from any door, window or fire escape, or inhibit the
use of fire protection systems. No sign or advertising structure shall be
attached to a standpipe or fire escape. No sign shall interfere with any
opening required for ventilation.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Glass Limitation: Any glass forming a part of any sign shall be safety
glass or its equivalent as approved by the building inspector, and of such
thickness as required to withstand wind loads.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Movable Sign Parts: No sign or its parts shall be permitted to be
movable or rotating, nor shall any sign have illuminated effects which convey
the illusion of movement.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Items Secured: All manually movable items on a sign, such as covers to
service openings, shall be secured by latches.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Location:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No freestanding sign shall be located within a triangular area
established at the intersection of two (2) streets or a street and a driveway
in which nothing is erected, planted, placed, or allowed to grow so as to limit
or obstruct the sight distance of motorists. Such a triangle shall have legs of
twenty five feet (25') along the rights of way when two (2) streets intersect,
and ten feet (10') along the right of way and driveway when a street and
driveway intersect.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â No sign shall be allowed to encroach upon the public right of way or
public property, except as permitted under section
9-8A-14 of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â No sign facing the side or rear lot line of an abutting
residentially zoned lot shall be located within fifty feet (50') of that
residential lot line.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Illuminated Signs: All illuminated signs shall be subject to the
following requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Signs shall be shaded wherever necessary to avoid casting bright
light upon property located in any residential district or upon any public
street or park. Any illuminated sign located on a lot adjacent to or across the
street from any residential district, which sign is visible from such
residential district, shall not be illuminated between the hours of twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Internally illuminated signs shall permit light to shine fully
through only the lettering and graphic elements of the sign. The background for
such lettering and graphics shall be opaque or translucent and shall transmit
light at a level substantially less than that transmitted through the lettering
and graphics.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Traffic Safety: In order to ensure reasonable traffic safety, it shall
be unlawful to erect or maintain any fluttering, undulating, swinging,
rotating, blinking, or flashing sign or attention gathering device. No sign or
advertising structure shall be erected, installed or maintained in such a
manner as to obstruct free and clear vision, or as to distract the attention of
the driver of any vehicle by reason of position, shape, color or lighting
thereof.
No sign or advertising structure shall be erected or maintained in such a
manner as to be likely to interfere with, obstruct the view of, or imitate,
resemble, or be confused with any authorized traffic sign, signal or device.
Accordingly, no sign or advertising structure shall make use of the words
"stop", "go", "slow", "look", "caution", "warning", "danger", or any similar
word, phrase, symbol, or character, or employ any red, yellow, orange, green or
other colored lamp or light, in such a manner as to interfere with, mislead or
confuse traffic.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Sign Area Bonus: The replacement of nonconforming signs shall be
encouraged through a bonus of ten percent (10%) applied to the allowable area
for individual signs if permits for the replacement of all legal nonconforming
signs on a premises are requested and approved prior to January 1, 2001.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Landscaping Requirements: The following requirements must be included
on plans that are submitted as a part of a sign permit application:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â For every one square foot of gross sign area, there shall be
provided one square foot of landscape area adjacent to the sign.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The required landscape area shall complement the sign and consist of
plantings such as deciduous or evergreen shrubs, flowering plants, and ground
cover. Sodded or seeded areas shall not qualify as part of the landscaped area.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â All landscape areas shall be mulched to conserve moisture and
minimize weed growth.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â It shall be the duty of the property owner to maintain all such
landscaped areas in a neat and proper manner. (Ord. 2000-03, 3-20-2000)
9-8A-7: COMPUTATIONS:
The following principles shall control the computation of sign area and sign
height:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Computation Of Area Of Individual Signs: The area of a sign face shall
be the total exposed surface within a continuous perimeter composed of a single
rectangle enclosing the extreme limits of characters, lettering, illustrations,
ornamentations, or other figures, together with any material, or color used as
an integral part of the background of the display, or to differentiate the sign
from the background on which it is placed, but not including any supporting
framework, bracing, or decorative fence or wall when such fence or wall
otherwise meets zoning ordinance regulations and is clearly incidental to the
display itself.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Computation Of Area Of Multi-Faced Signs: The sign area for a sign with
more than one face shall be computed by adding together the area of all sign
faces visible from any one point. When two (2) identical sign faces are placed
back to back, so that both faces cannot be viewed from any point at the same
time, and when such sign faces are part of the same sign structure and are not
more than forty two inches (42") apart, the sign area shall be computed by the
measurement of one of the faces.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Computation Of Height: The height of a sign shall be the measurement
from the top of the highest element of the sign to: 1) the average level of the
finished ground surface, exclusive of any filling or mounding, around any sign
located more than twenty five feet (25') from a street right of way; 2) the
established street elevation when the sign is located within twenty five feet
(25') from one street right of way; or 3) the average of all street elevations
when the sign is located within twenty five feet (25') from more than one
street right of way. (Ord. 2000-03, 3-20-2000)
9-8A-8: SIGNS ALLOWED IN RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS:
The following signs shall be permitted in residential zoning districts, and
shall be subject to all applicable standards:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Exempt signs as specified in section
9-8A-4 of this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The following temporary signs as specified and regulated in section
9-8A-12 of this chapter:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Window signs.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Residential real estate signs.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Political signs.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Garage/yard sale signs.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Construction signs.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â One identification sign, not to exceed fifty (50) square feet in total
surface area for the following uses: religious institution, private or public
school, and facilities constructed and maintained by any taxing district. Such
a sign may be illuminated, shall not exceed ten feet (10') in height, and shall
be set back a minimum of ten feet (10') from any lot line. Two (2) such
identification signs may be erected at entrances to the facility if the
permitted square footage is divided equally into two (2) symmetrical signs,
provided that all other provisions of this chapter are met. (Ord. 2000-03, 3-
20-2000)
9-8A-9: SIGNS ALLOWED IN NONRESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS:
The following signs shall be permitted in nonresidential zoning districts, and
shall be subject to all applicable standards:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Freestanding Signs: Freestanding signs shall be permitted, subject to
the following provisions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Number: There shall be a limit of one freestanding sign per lot,
shopping center, shopping center outlot, or unified business center; i.e.,
either one pole sign or one ground sign which shall be erected for the purpose
of identifying the establishment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Height: No pole sign shall exceed twenty feet (20') in height from
grade, and no ground sign shall exceed ten feet (10') in height from grade.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Surface Area: No pole or ground sign shall exceed a maximum surface
area of one hundred (100) square feet.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Setback: No pole sign shall be located closer than ten feet (10') to
any property line. No ground sign shall be located closer than five feet (5')
to any property line. Such signs shall be placed no closer than eighteen feet
(18') to any building or structure it identifies and shall not obscure any
architectural features of a building, such as entrances, display windows, or
decorative cornices when viewed from any street.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Ground Clearance: All pole signs shall maintain a ground clearance
of seven feet (7') from the grade to the bottom side of the sign.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Scale And Proportion: A pole or ground sign shall be compatible with
the building or buildings it identifies, and the sign may not be of such a size
that it visually overpowers the building on the site.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Overhang: No pole sign may overhang any part of a structure, parking
or loading space, driveway, or maneuvering aisle.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Illumination: Pole signs may only be internally illuminated. Ground
signs may be internally or externally illuminated.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Tenant Identification Panels: Provision for identifying tenants
within a shopping center or unified business center as part of the permitted
square footage of the sign identifying the shopping center or unified business
center as a whole shall be permitted, provided that there shall be a limit of
two (2) panels or divisions of said sign for such purposes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â Menu Board Signs: In addition to the one permitted freestanding
sign, one freestanding single-faced menu board sign shall be permitted per lot
or outlot for restaurants with drive-through facilities, provided that such
sign does not exceed twenty four (24) square feet in surface area or eight feet
(8') in height. Such sign may only be internally illuminated. Menu board signs
shall be permitted only in business zoning districts.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Wall Signs: Wall signs shall be permitted, subject to the following
provisions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Location: A wall sign shall be erected upon the wall of the building
facade having its principal frontage upon a public street. A wall sign may be
on the building facade other than the principal frontage if it faces a
nonresidential district and the total square footage does not exceed the total
permitted on the principal frontage. In no case shall a wall sign be permitted
that faces the side of any adjoining lot located in a residential zoning
district.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Number: A maximum of one wall sign per establishment shall be
permitted, erected for the purpose of identifying the establishment, subject to
the following provisions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â No wall signs shall be permitted for individual tenants in a
multi-story or multi-tenant office building, unless specifically authorized as
part of an approved PUD at the time of approval of said PUD.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â A corporate logo shall be permitted, but shall count as the
permitted wall sign if it is not incorporated into the wall sign.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Height: The maximum height of a wall sign shall be thirty feet (30')
from grade, or two (2) stories, whichever is less, but in no case shall any
portion of such sign be extended above the roofline.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Surface Area: The surface area of a wall sign shall not exceed two
(2) square feet per one linear foot of building front, or one hundred fifty
(150) square feet, whichever is less.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Projection: No wall sign shall project from the building wall more
than twelve inches (12").
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Shape: The outlined shape and silhouette of a wall sign shall be
simple and compatible with the building facade it is mounted on. Shapes that
disrupt the architectural order and composition of a building facade are not
acceptable.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Scale And Proportion: Wall signs shall be harmonious in scale and
proportion with the building facade they are mounted to and with the
architectural elements of the building, such as windows, cornices, sign
friezes, and bays. A wall sign shall not visually overpower those elements nor
detract from the composition of the building facade.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Overhang: The edges of wall signs shall not overhang the top of bays
or equivalent architectural features of building facades.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Illumination: Wall signs may be internally or wash lighting
illuminated. Wash lighting shall be accomplished by individual fixtures
recessed in horizontal housing above the sign or by gooseneck lights shielded
by metal shades. Wash lighting fixtures must be positioned at least three feet
(3') apart and provide even lighting.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â Corner Units: Establishments occupying a corner unit in a building
shall be entitled to have two (2) wall signs, one per wall, each adhering to
all of the other standards in this subsection, provided that:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The primary wall sign shall be deemed to be that which is located
on the side of the unit that has the legal address or the principal entrance
for the general public.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The surface area of the secondary wall sign shall not exceed that
of the primary wall sign.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The location of the secondary wall sign is not adjacent to any
residential dwelling unit or vacant property located in a residential zoning
district.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Both sides of the corner unit face a public street. Signs facing
a service drive, loading dock entrance, or the like shall be prohibited.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â Mansard Roofs: Signs to be erected upon mansard roofs shall be
treated as wall signs, and shall be single-faced. In no case shall the roof or
a portion of the roof itself be illuminated.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Canopy, Under-Canopy, And Marquee Signs: Canopy, under-canopy, and
marquee signs shall be permitted subject to the following provisions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Number: There shall be a limit of one canopy or one marquee sign per
lot or per establishment, erected for the purpose of identifying the
establishment, except as otherwise provided for in this subsection, and
provided that no wall signs are directed to the same street frontage.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Location: Canopy/marquee signs may be mounted on the face (vertical
edges only) of the canopy/marquee proper.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Signable Area: The signable area for canopy/marquee signs shall not
extend beyond the canopy/marquee face on which the sign is located. No sign or
portion of a sign shall exceed the borderline of any outer edge of said canopy/
marquee. No sign shall be placed on or over the roof of said canopy/marquee.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Surface Area: The surface area of a canopy/marquee sign shall not
exceed ten (10) square feet, or thirty percent (30%) of the signable wall area
of a canopy/marquee attached to the building front, whichever is greater. A
multiple bay canopy/marquee, such as drive-up lanes at a financial institution,
may have a sign for each bay, provided that the sum total of all such signs
does not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the surface area of the face of the
canopy/marquee that faces a public street or private drive.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Projection: No canopy/marquee sign shall project more than eight
inches (8") from the canopy/marquee proper.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Ground Clearance: A clearance of eight feet (8') shall be maintained
from the lowest point on the canopy/marquee to the grade or walkway under said
canopy/marquee.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Shape: The outlined shape and silhouette of a canopy/marquee sign
shall be simple and compatible with the building it is mounted on. Shapes that
disrupt the architectural order and composition of a building facade are not
acceptable.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Scale And Proportion: Canopy/marquee signs shall be harmonious in
scale and proportion with the building they are mounted to and with the
architectural elements of the building, such as windows, cornices, sign
friezes, and bays. A canopy/marquee sign shall not visually overpower those
elements nor detract from the composition of the building facade.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Material: Canopy/marquee signs shall be constructed of a
noncombustible type material.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â Illumination: Canopy/marquee signs may only be internally
illuminated.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â Under Canopy Signs: In addition to the signs permitted in this
subsection, one under canopy sign shall be permitted to be erected above a
general public entrance into the establishment in order to identify said
establishment, provided that:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â A minimum clearance of eight feet (8') from the walkway is
maintained.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Such signs shall be placed perpendicular to the building, with
the top edge of the sign fastened to the bottom edge of the canopy.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Such signs shall not exceed three (3) square feet in surface
area.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Such signs may only be internally illuminated.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â A limit of one sign per establishment shall be permitted.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Awning Signs: Awning signs shall be permitted subject to the following
provisions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Location: Individual letters, words, or symbols may be directly
affixed or applied to any surface of an awning, generally by painting,
printing, or weaving. Signs shall not be constructed of or applied to other
material which is then fastened to the awning.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Surface Area: Provided that no wall signs or canopy/marquee signs
are directed to the same street frontage, the surface area of an awning sign
shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the exterior surface area of an
awning. If wall, canopy, or marquee signs are directed to the same street
frontage, the sign letters shall not exceed eight inches (8").
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Ground Clearance: A clearance of eight feet (8') shall be maintained
from the lowest point on the awning to the grade or walkway under said awning.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Illumination: Awning signs shall not be illuminated. (Ord. 2000-03,
3-20-2000)
9-8A-10: PERMITTED EXTRA SIGNS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Criteria: Certain business operations are hereby found to be unique
with respect to their sign requirements and therefore justified to be permitted
to have extra signs, in addition to those specified in section
9-8A-9 of this chapter, as specified below. These include:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Gasoline Stations: Gasoline stations are unique because their
primary functions are performed out of doors in a manner prescribed by state
statute.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Movie And Live Entertainment Theaters: These theaters are unique
because of the rapid turnover of the name of their entertainment product.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Unified Business Centers: Unified business centers are unique
because of the concentrated development and their centralized ownership
characteristics.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Gasoline Stations: In addition to the signs permitted by other sections
of this chapter, the following signs are permitted uniquely to gasoline
stations:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Two (2) signs per pump island which designate the function of the
island as "self-service" or "full service". Such signs shall not have more than
two (2) faces and shall not exceed three (3) square feet per face.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â One sign displaying the price of fuel sold, with a maximum surface
area of six (6) square feet per fuel type. Such signs shall not have more than
two (2) faces.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â One nonilluminated sign identifying the service performed in each
service bay may be placed over the opening to each bay. Such signs shall have
one face and shall not exceed three (3) square feet each.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â One nonilluminated nameplate identifying the owner or operator is
permitted adjacent to the doorway of the station. Such nameplate shall have one
face and shall not exceed two (2) square feet in area.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Temporary signs advertising batteries, tires, oil or other products
which are directly related to motor vehicles, if the signs are located directly
adjacent to a display of the product(s) described. Such signs may have two (2)
faces; however, their total area shall not exceed fifteen (15) square feet.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â One sign over each pump stand not to exceed twenty four inches (24")
in height with length governed by the length of the pump itself.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â One wall sign on a detached car wash building, provided that it
conforms to all other provisions for wall signs as stated in this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Any signs required by state or federal government.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Movie And Live Entertainment Theaters: In addition to the signs
permitted by other sections of this chapter, the following sign is permitted
uniquely to theaters:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Each theater may have one sign of up to fifty (50) square feet which
will accommodate changeable lettering copy.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A theater's changeable copy sign may have two (2) faces if it is
freestanding, but both faces must be parallel and located no more than two feet
(2') apart.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A theater's changeable copy sign may be located on a marquee,
provided it does not project above or beyond the structural limits of such
marquee.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Otherwise, a theater's changeable copy sign shall conform to the
regulations for the sign type to which it most nearly resembles.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Unified Business Centers: In addition to the signs permitted by other
sections of this chapter, the following additional signs are permitted uniquely
to unified business centers:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A unified business center may have one identification sign for the
center in addition to the signs permitted for each separate business. The
permitted area of such identification sign shall be based upon a ratio of five
(5) square feet per one acre of the site, up to a maximum of one hundred fifty
(150) square feet. Tenant identification panels are permitted as part of the
permitted square footage of the center identification sign. Every unified
business center is permitted an identification sign of eight (8) square feet.
Otherwise, unified business center identification signs shall conform to the
regulations of the sign type to which they most closely resemble.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Unified business centers may have common directory signs to guide
pedestrians to individual businesses on the site. Such signs shall be limited
to one square foot per business listed on the sign. Centers must have a minimum
of ten (10) businesses to qualify to have one directory sign and may have one
additional sign for each ten (10) businesses. (Ord. 2000-03, 3-20-2000)
9-8A-11: UNIFIED BUSINESS CENTER SIGN PLAN:
No permit shall be issued for a sign to be located in a unified business center
until a comprehensive sign plan has been approved for the center and the sign
complies with the provisions thereof.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Unified Business Center Sign Plan Approval: Approval of a unified
business center sign plan shall be at the discretion of the village board,
after review and recommendation of the planning commission, and in accordance
with the criteria noted herein.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Application Content: In addition to the requirements listed for permit
applications in subsection 9-8A-5B of this chapter, the application for a
unified business center sign plan shall include a format for all signs to be
used in the center, including their maximum size, color, location, illumination
details, lettering type, and mounting details.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Criteria: The criteria used by the village in its review of the
proposed unified business center sign plan shall include:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Scale And Proportion: Every sign shall have good scale and
proportion in its design and in its visual relationship to the other signs,
buildings and surroundings.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Integral Elements: The signs in the plan shall be designed as
integral architectural elements of the building and site to which they
principally relate and shall not appear as incongruous "add ons" or intrusions.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Harmony: The colors, materials and lighting of every sign shall be
harmonious with the building and site to which it principally relates.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Effective Composition: The number of graphic elements and letters
shall be held to the minimum needed to convey each sign's message and shall be
composed in proportion to the area of the sign's face.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Compatibility: Each sign shall be compatible with signs within the
proposed unified business center.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Unified Image: The effect of the signs proposed in the plan shall be
the establishment of a unified image for the center. (Ord. 2000-03, 3-20-2000)
9-8A-12: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â General Provisions: The following general provisions shall apply to all
temporary signs:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Permit Required: An application is required for all temporary signs,
except for construction signs, window signs, residential real estate signs, and
political signs. Upon application, the building inspector may issue permits for
temporary signs or displays related to grand openings, special promotions,
going out of business, emergency information, and similar purposes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Duration: Unless a specific duration for a particular temporary sign
type is noted in subsection B of this section, temporary signs must be removed
within fifteen (15) days from the date of activation. Temporary sign permits
may be renewed twice within a calendar year.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Location: All temporary signs shall be erected only on the property
of the permittee, unless the permittee is a nonprofit organization, and shall
be set back a minimum of five feet (5') from any public right of way.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Illumination: No temporary sign shall be illuminated.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Construction: All temporary signs shall be anchored and supported in
a manner which reasonably prevents the possibility of the signs becoming
hazards to the public health and safety as determined by the building
inspector.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Number: Unless a specific number of signs is listed for a particular
temporary sign type, only one temporary sign shall be permitted per zoning lot
or business.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Temporary Sign Types: Temporary signs shall be limited in use to the
following types of signs:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Freestanding Signs: Freestanding signs shall be permitted subject to
the following provisions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Height: Freestanding signs shall not exceed eight feet (8') in
height from grade.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Material: Freestanding signs shall be constructed of wood, metal,
or other durable material and reasonably supported in or on the ground by
adequate bracing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Surface Area: Freestanding signs shall not exceed thirty two (32)
square feet in surface area per face, and may be single faced or double faced.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Banner Signs: Banner signs shall be permitted subject to the
following provisions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Height: Banner signs shall not exceed the height of the first
floor of the building, or twelve feet (12') from grade, whichever is greater.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Location: Banner signs without a permanent frame shall be affixed
only to building walls. Banner signs with a permanent frame may also be affixed
to poles.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Number: One banner sign shall be permitted per zoning lot or
business. If banner signs are mounted with a permanent frame, additional banner
signs are permitted at a ratio of one sign per seventy five feet (75') of lot
frontage.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Surface Area: Banner signs shall not exceed thirty two (32)
square feet in surface area.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â For Sale/For Lease/For Rent Signs: For sale/for lease/for rent signs
shall be permitted subject to the following provisions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Duration: A permit for a new development identification sign may
be effective for no more than a period of three (3) years, or until ninety
percent (90%) of the units originally for sale or lease have been sold or
leased for the first time, whichever comes first.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Height And Location: Such signs shall be located on the property
advertised for sale, lease or rent and set back a minimum of ten feet (10')
from any property line, with a maximum height of fifteen feet (15').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Removal: The permit applicant shall be required to remove the for
sale/for lease/for rent sign upon expiration of the permit as noted above. To
guarantee removal, an acceptable bond or letter of credit of one hundred
fifteen percent (115%) of the cost of dismantling the sign shall be provided to
the Village at the time of permitting.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Size: The maximum surface area of such a sign shall be one
hundred (100) square feet.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Residential Real Estate Signs: Residential real estate signs shall
be permitted subject to the following provisions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Location: The sign is located upon the property that is offered
for sale, lease, or rent, or has been sold.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Message: The sign content shall be limited to the words "For
Sale", "For Lease", "For Rent", "Open House", or "Sold" or substantially
similar terminology; the name, address, and phone number of the individual
realtor or agent; and the name and logo of the realtor's franchise or brokering
office.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Number: Only one sign shall be permitted for each building,
dwelling unit, or lot.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Removal: The sign shall be removed within seven (7) days after
the real estate closing, or lease or rental transaction is completed, except
that "Open House" signs shall be erected and removed on the day of the event.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Size And Height: The sign shall not exceed six (6) square feet in
surface area. The sign shall not exceed four feet (4') in height from grade.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Window Signs: Window signs shall be permitted subject to the
following provisions. No permit is required for window signs.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Location: Window signs shall be affixed only to the interior
surface of the glass and shall not be located on any windows above the first
floor of the building.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Surface Area: Such signs shall not exceed thirty five percent
(35%) of the window surface area for each building face. Signs shall not be
affixed in such a manner that a safety hazard to customers or staff of the
establishment is created by the obstruction of vision. The Chief of Police or
his designee(s) shall be empowered to require the removal or relocation of any
such sign deemed to be a safety hazard.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Beacons Or Searchlights: Beacons or searchlights may be permitted in
connection with grand openings or special events, provided:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Direction Of Illumination: Lights must be oriented skyward not
breaking an angle of forty five degrees (45Â°) from the ground.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Duration: The sign(s) may be displayed for no more than fifteen
(15) days. Upon expiration of said fifteen (15) days, the use of said sign
shall be discontinued and no inflatable sign advertising the same business or
establishment shall be reinstalled or reerected for a period of six (6) months.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Number: Only one unit shall be permitted per zoning lot. (Ord.
2000-03, 3-20-2000)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Political Signs: Political signs shall be allowed without permit,
provided that: (Ord. 2016-37, 9-6-2016)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Duration: (Rep. by Ord. 2016-37, 9-6-2016)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Location: The sign shall be placed on private property and set
back from any public right-of-way.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Number: There shall be no limit on the number of political signs
permitted; provided, however, that the quantity of signs displayed does not
create a safety hazard to traffic by distracting motorists or interfering with
safe pedestrian flow, in which case the Chief of Police and/or the Building
Commissioner shall be authorized to require that the number of signs be
reasonably reduced.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Size And Height: In residential districts, the sign shall not
exceed six (6) square feet in surface area. The sign shall not exceed four feet
(4') in height from grade. In nonresidential districts, the sign shall not
exceed nine (9) square feet in surface area. The sign shall not exceed six feet
(6') in height from grade. (Ord. 2016-37, 9-6-2016)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Garage/Yard Sale Signs: See title 4, chapter 12 of this Code. (Ord.
2001-20, 9-10-2001)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Construction Signs: Construction signs shall be permitted, provided
that:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Duration: Signs shall not be installed prior to issuance of a
building permit and shall be removed within seven (7) days of issuance of an
occupancy permit.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Location: The sign shall be placed on private property on the
premises of the construction and set back a minimum of ten feet (10') from any
public right-of-way.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Number: One sign shall be permitted per zoning lot.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Size And Height: In nonresidential and multi-family zoning
districts, the sign shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet in surface
area. The sign shall not exceed ten feet (10') in height from grade. The same
standard shall apply to religious institutions, private or public schools, golf
courses and facilities constructed and maintained by any taxing district
located in a Single-Family Zoning District. For residential uses in a Single-
Family Zoning District, the sign shall not exceed six (6) square feet in
surface area and shall not exceed four feet (4') in height from grade. (Ord.
2000-03, 3-20-2000)
9-8A-13: LEGAL NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Signs Existing On Effective Date: For any sign existing in the Village
on January 18, 2000, an application for a sign permit must be submitted to the
Building Commissioner before February 1, 2001. Applications for permits for
existing signs submitted before February 1, 2001, shall be exempt from the
application fees adopted under authority of this chapter. (Ord. 2000-15, 11-20-
2000)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Nonconforming Existing Signs, Permits And Terms: A sign that would be
permitted under this chapter only with a sign permit, but which was in
existence on January 18, 2000, and which was constructed in accordance with
Village regulations in effect on the date of its construction, but which by
reason of its size, height, location, design or construction is not in
conformance with requirements of this chapter, shall be issued a nonconforming
sign permit if an application in accordance with subsection A of this section
is timely filed.
Such permit shall allow the sign(s) subject to such permit, which is made
nonconforming by this chapter, to remain in place and to be maintained for a
period ending no later than June 18, 2005, provided that no action is taken
which increases the degree or extent of nonconformity.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Loss Of Legal Nonconforming Status: A sign loses its legal
nonconforming status if one or more of the following occurs:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Sign Altered: The sign is altered in any way, except for normal
maintenance or repair;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Sign Relocated: The sign is relocated either on the premises or to
another location;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Sign Unsafe: The sign fails to conform to the sections of this
chapter regarding maintenance and operation, and public safety standards;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Sign Damaged: Damage occurs to a sign which requires repairs
exceeding fifty percent (50%) of the replacement value of the sign;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Excessive Maintenance Costs: When any proposed change, repair, or
maintenance would constitute an expense of more than twenty five percent (25%)
of the replacement value of the sign;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â New Occupancy Permit: A change in use occurs which requires a new
occupancy permit for the premises to which a legal nonconforming sign relates.
On the date of occurrence of any of the above, the sign shall be immediately
brought in compliance with this section with a new permit secured, or shall be
removed within thirty (30) days of that date.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Continuing Obligation: Nothing in this section shall relieve the owner
or user of a legal nonconforming sign, or owner of the property on which the
legal nonconforming sign is located, from the provisions of this chapter
regarding safety, maintenance, and repair of signs, provided however, that any
repainting, cleaning and other normal maintenance or repair of the sign or sign
structure shall not modify the sign structure, sign face or message in such a
way which makes the sign more nonconforming.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Historic Signs: Other than safety requirements, the provisions of this
sign code may be waived by the village board for historic signs upon
application for relief by the sign owner or by a village initiated action in
accordance with the following procedure:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Upon filing of said application, the village board may declare a
sign or group of signs to be "historic" by making findings according to the
guidelines below. Notwithstanding safety and maintenance regulations (section
9-8A-17 of this chapter), a sign so designated by the village board shall be
deemed to conform with this code.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Signs may be so designated upon the finding that they exhibit unique
characteristics that enhance the streetscape or the historic identity of the
village or neighborhood. Such a sign contributes to the historical or cultural
character of the streetscape and the community at large.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Nothing in this section shall prohibit the owner of a designated
historic sign from removing such sign. (Ord. 2000-03, 3-20-2000)
9-8A-14: SIGNS IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY:
No signs shall be allowed in the public right of way, except for the following:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Permanent Signs: Permanent signs, including:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Public signs erected by or on behalf of a governmental body to post
legal notices, identify public property, convey public information, and direct
or regulate pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Informational signs of a public utility regarding its poles, lines,
pipes, or facilities.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Emergency Signs: Emergency warning signs erected by a governmental
agency, a public utility company, or a contractor doing authorized or permitted
work within the public right of way. (Ord. 2000-03, 3-20-2000)
9-8A-15: OFFICIAL, CORPORATE AND ANCILLARY FLAGS:
The display of official, corporate and ancillary flags shall be permitted
subject to the following requirements. These regulations are designed to
control the use of permanent flagpoles or staff upon which the flag is located
and the relationship of the flag to the flagpole or staff. Flags and flagpoles
do not require a specific sign permit. Flags shall be permitted in all zoning
districts subject to the following requirements:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Flags shall be displayed only on permanent flagpoles or staffs designed
and constructed specifically and exclusively for flag display. No official,
corporate or ancillary flag shall be displayed on or attached in any manner to
light poles, sign poles, trees, vehicles, or similar structures or objects. The
temporary display of flags where such requirements are impractical, such as a
parade, holidays, or special events, shall be deemed to be acceptable.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â There shall be a maximum of one flagpole per one hundred feet (100') of
frontage within nonresidential zoning districts.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Flagpoles shall be set back a minimum of ten feet (10') from the
property line.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The display of more than two (2) flags per flagpole shall be
prohibited.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â The height of a flagpole shall be in proportion to the scale of the
building to which the pole relates, and in no case shall it be higher than the
following height limitations:
Â Â Â Building HeightÂ Â Â Pole Height Measured From Grade
Â Â Â Single-family usesÂ Â Â 25 feet
Â Â Â All other uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 0 to 25 feetÂ Â Â 30 feet
Â Â Â Â Â Â 25.1 feet or higherÂ Â Â 35 feet
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â The vertical length of a permitted single flag on a flagpole or staff
shall not exceed one-fourth (1/4) of the length of the pole or staff upon which
the flag is hung. Under no circumstances shall any flag exceed fifty (50)
square feet in surface area. The official flag of the United States of America
is exempt from this size restriction.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Flags shall be displayed in such a manner that no portion of the flag
shall project over any property line or contact any other structure when fully
extended.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Flags shall not be mounted on or over roofs or rooflines in any
fashion. Wall mounted official and corporate flags shall be displayed from
flagpoles or staffs not to exceed ten feet (10') in length. No portion of such
flagpoles or staffs shall extend above the roofline or over a property line.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Official flags shall be maintained in an orderly fashion, and in clean
and good condition. The official flag of the United States of America shall be
displayed in accordance with the flag code, title 36, USC, chapter 10, as
amended by P.L. 344, 94th congress, approved July 7, 1976, or as amended in the
future. All other official flags should be displayed in accordance with the
same standards of respect and protocol.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Corporate and ancillary flags shall be maintained in an orderly
fashion, and in clean and good condition. Tattered or torn flags shall be
removed or replaced promptly. (Ord. 2000-03, 3-20-2000)
9-8A-16: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
All signs not expressly permitted under this chapter or exempt from regulation
under section
9-8A-4 of this chapter, are prohibited in the village. Such signs include, but
are not limited to:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Signs containing statements, words or pictures of an obscene or
pornographic nature.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Any sign or advertising device painted or displayed on any vehicle or
trailer parked on the public right of way, public property, or private property
so as to be prominently visible from a public right of way and parked for the
flagrant purpose of providing advertisement of products or directing people to
a business or activity.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Signs nailed, tacked or otherwise affixed to trees or other vegetation
in such a way as to puncture bark.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Handbills, posters, notices, or similar attention gathering devices
posted or affixed on traffic control boxes, signs, lamp poles, utility poles,
or traffic control support.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Projecting signs.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Animated signs.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Any sign attached to a chimney, on a fence or fence type wall,
retaining wall, bench, fence post, refuse enclosure, utility box, storage shed,
bus shelter, satellite dish, antenna, or other accessory structure.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Any exterior string of lights or exposed light bulbs, except those that
are temporarily displayed in conjunction with traditionally accepted civic,
patriotic, or religious holidays for a duration not to exceed sixty (60) days.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Any additional or subsequent sign painted on, attached, or otherwise
affixed to poles or permitted signs.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Portable signs.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Off site signs.
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â Inflatable signs. (Ord. 2000-03, 3-20-2000)
9-8A-17: MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Maintenance And Repair: Every sign, including, but not limited to,
those signs for which permits are required, shall be maintained in a safe,
presentable, and good structural condition at all times, including replacement
of defective parts, painting, cleaning and other acts required to maintain the
sign, advertising structure, marquee, canopy or awning in its originally
permitted and installed condition in accordance with the following criteria and
with the applicable chapters of this code:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Paint Or Treat: To prevent rust, peeling, flaking, fading or
rotting, the owner of any sign or advertising structure shall, as required,
paint all parts and supports thereof unless the same are galvanized, stainless
or otherwise treated.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Repairs: Broken panels, missing letters, defective illumination,
torn fabric, flaking or peeling paint and other damage to a sign, advertising
structure, marquee, awning, canopy or support structure shall be repaired.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Clean And Sanitary: All signs or advertising structures and the area
surrounding same shall be maintained by the owner thereof in a clean, sanitary
and inoffensive condition, and free and clear of all debris, rubbish and
obnoxious substances, and any related grassed area or landscaping shall be kept
trimmed and in a healthy condition.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Obsolete Or Abandoned Signs: For any sign or advertising structure now
or hereafter existing, which advertises a business, commodity, service,
entertainment, activity, or event which has been discontinued, or is located on
property which has been vacant and unoccupied, the building inspector shall
give written notice requiring removal of the sign to permittee thereof, or if
the permittee cannot be located, to the owner, agent or person having the
beneficial use of the building, structure or premises upon which it is found.
If, after notification, the proper person fails to remove the sign or structure
within sixty (60) days after such notice the building inspector is hereby
authorized to have such sign or advertising structure removed.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Unsafe And Unlawful Signs: For any sign or advertising structure that
is unsafe or insecure, or is a menace to the public, or has been constructed or
erected, or is being maintained in violation of the provisions of this chapter,
the building inspector shall give written notice to the permittee thereof, or
if the permittee cannot be located, to the owner, agent or person having the
beneficial use of the building, structure or premises upon which it is found.
If, after notification, the proper person fails to remove or alter the
structure so as to comply with the standards of this section within thirty (30)
days after such notice, the building inspector is hereby authorized to have
such sign or advertising structure removed. The building inspector may
summarily, and without notice, have removed any sign or advertising structure
which is an immediate safety hazard to persons or property.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Lien To Recover Costs: In the event of failure by any party to
reimburse the village within sixty (60) days for costs incurred for repair or
removal ordered by the building inspector, the village board shall certify the
charges for repair or removal to the village's legal counsel, who will then be
authorized to file a notice of lien in the office of the Cook County recorder
of deeds to foreclose this lien, and to sue the owner of the real estate, or
sign permittee, or their agents, in a civil action to recover the money due for
the foregoing services, plus all expenses and reasonable attorney fees to be
fixed by the court. Included in the expenses recoverable by the village are the
costs of filing the notice of lien, foreclosing said lien, and all litigation
costs, together with all office and legal expense incurred in connection with
the collection of the amount due. (Ord. 2000-03, 3-20-2000)
9-8A-18: VIOLATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any of the following shall be a violation of this chapter and shall be
subject to the enforcement remedies and penalties provided by this section, by
the zoning ordinance, and by state law:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â To install, create, erect, or maintain any sign in a way that is
inconsistent with any plan or permit governing such sign or the zoning lot on
which the sign is located;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â To install, create, erect, or maintain any sign requiring a permit
without first securing such a permit;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â To fail to remove any sign that is installed, created, erected, or
maintained in violation of this chapter, or for which the sign permit has
lapsed.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Each sign installed, created, erected, or maintained in violation of
this chapter shall be considered a separate violation when applying the penalty
portions of this chapter. (Ord. 2000-03, 3-20-2000)
9-8A-19: ENFORCEMENT AND REMEDIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any violation or attempted violation of this chapter, or of any
condition or requirement adopted pursuant hereto may be restrained, corrected,
or abated, as the case may be, by injunction or other appropriate proceedings
pursuant to state law. A violation of this chapter shall be considered a
violation of the zoning ordinance 1  of the village. The remedies of the
village shall include the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Issuing a stop work order for any and all work on any signs in the
same zoning lot;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Seeking an injunction or other order of restraint or abatement that
requires the removal of the sign(s) or the correction of the nonconformity;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Imposing any penalties that can be imposed directly by the village
under the zoning ordinance;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Seeking in court the imposition of any penalties that can be imposed
by such court under the zoning ordinance; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â In the case of a sign that poses an immediate danger to the public
health or safety, taking such measures as are available to the village under
the applicable provisions of the zoning ordinance and building code 1  for such
circumstances.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The village shall have such other remedies as provided for or allowed
by state law for the violation of the zoning ordinance.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â All such remedies provided herein shall be cumulative. To the extent
that state law may limit the availability of a particular remedy set forth
herein for a certain violation or a part thereof, such remedy shall remain
available for other violations or other parts of the same violation. (Ord.
2000-03, 3-20-2000)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this code.
1 1. See chapters 1 and 2 of this title.
9-8A-20: SIGN DIAGRAMS:
(Ord. 2000-03, 3-20-2000)
CHAPTER 9
[RESERVED]
Â 
CHAPTER 10
PLANNING DIVISION
SECTION:
9-10-1: Planning Division - Building Department
9-10-2: Economic Development Director
9-10-3: Duties And Responsibilities
9-10-4: Planning Recommendations
9-10-5: Procedural Requirements
9-10-1: PLANNING DIVISION - BUILDING DEPARTMENT:
There is hereby established a Planning Division, which shall be part of the
Building Department. The Planning Division shall employ such persons as
approved from time to time by the President and Board of Trustees. (Ord. 99-14,
12-6-1999)
9-10-2: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR:
There is hereby established the position of Economic Development Director. The
position shall be held by a part-time consultant or by a staff member, with
such remuneration as determined from time to time by the President and Board of
Trustees.
The Economic Development Director's position shall be part of the Planning
Division of the Building Department. The Director shall be appointed by the
President with the advice and consent of the Board of Trustees. The Director
shall report to the President and Board of Trustees. (Ord. 99-14, 12-6-1999)
9-10-3: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The Economic Development Director's primary duties and responsibilities shall
be to foster commercial and industrial economic growth, and to promote and
preserve economic stability. The Director shall have such further specific
duties as may be assigned from time to time by the President and Board of
Trustees.
The Director shall take the following factors, among others, into consideration
in pursuit of these duties and responsibilities:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The historic equalized assessed valuation of the Village;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Projected revenues and expenditures required by the Village for
operating costs and infrastructure improvements;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Incentives previously given for economic development;
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Recommended incentives, if any, for future economic development;
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Direct and indirect costs associated with development, which would be
incurred by the Village;
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Overall benefits and/or detriments to the Village. (Ord. 99-14, 12-6-
1999)
9-10-4: PLANNING RECOMMENDATIONS:
In addition to the foregoing duties and responsibilities, the Director shall
also be responsible to work with the President, Board of Trustees, Planning
Commission, Zoning Board and Building Department to review, on a regular basis,
all ordinances regarding planning, zoning and development to revise them as
needed. (Ord. 99-14, 12-6-1999)
9-10-5: PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS:
The Economic Development Director shall meet with any developer or business
owner who is seeking to establish any new or revised construction or business
establishment in the Village.
Any inquiries made to the Village by any potential developer or business owner
shall be referred to the Economic Development Director for processing. As soon
as practicable after receiving the inquiry, the Director shall set a meeting to
review, with the potential developer or business owner, the applicable
ordinances of the Village, and the goals and objectives of the Village for
future economic growth and development.
The Director shall then refer the potential developer or owner to the
appropriate Village departments for any necessary applications and inform the
President and Board of Trustees of such contact.
At least once per month, or more often as directed, the Director shall submit a
written report to the President and Board of Trustees regarding all such
inquiries. The Director shall give an oral report to the President and Board of
Trustees each month at the department head meeting. If requested by the
President and Board of Trustees, the Director shall advise the potential
developer or business owner to be present at a special committee meeting to
make a presentation to the President and Board of Trustees regarding the
proposal. (Ord. 99-14, 12-6-1999)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE AND PURPOSE
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title And Effective Date
10-1-2: Intent And Purpose
10-1-1: TITLE AND EFFECTIVE DATE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Be it ordained by the village board of the village of Broadview,
Illinois:
The zoning ordinance and zoning district map passed by the village board and
approved by the mayor of the village of Broadview, Illinois, on April 2, 2001,
and as subsequently amended, is herewith and now adopted.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â This title, including the zoning map made a part hereof, shall be known
and may be cited and referred to as the BROADVIEW ZONING ORDINANCE. (Ord. 2001-
08A, 4-2-2001)
10-1-2: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
The Broadview zoning ordinance is adopted for the following purposes:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â To promote and protect the public health, safety, morals, comfort and
general welfare of the people;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â To divide the village of Broadview into zones or districts restricting
and regulating therein the location, erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration and use of buildings, structures and land for residence, business,
manufacturing and other specified uses;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â To protect the character and the stability of the residential, business
and manufacturing areas within the village of Broadview and to promote the
orderly and beneficial development of such areas;
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â To provide adequate light, air, privacy and convenience of access to
property;
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â To regulate the intensity of use, and to determine the area of open
spaces surrounding buildings necessary to provide adequate light and air, and
to protect the public health;
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â To establish building lines and the location of buildings designed for
residential, business and manufacturing, or other uses within such areas;
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â To fix reasonable standards to which buildings or structures shall
conform;
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â To prohibit uses, buildings or structures incompatible with the
character of development or intended uses within specified zoning districts;
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â To prevent additions to or alteration or remodeling of, existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations imposed hereunder;
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â To limit congestion in the public streets and protect the public
health, safety, convenience and general welfare by providing for the off-street
parking of motor vehicles and the loading and unloading of commercial vehicles;
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â To conserve the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
village of Broadview;
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â To prevent the overcrowding of land and undue concentration of
structures, so far as is possible and appropriate in each district, by
regulating the use and bulk of buildings in relation to the land surrounding
them;
Â Â Â M.Â Â Â To protect against fire, explosion, noxious fumes and other hazards in
the interest of the public health, safety, comfort and general welfare;
Â Â Â N.Â Â Â To provide for the gradual elimination of nonconforming uses of land,
buildings and structures which are adversely affecting the character and value
of desirable development in each district;
Â Â Â O.Â Â Â To define and limit the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies as provided herein; and
Â Â Â P.Â Â Â To prescribe the penalties for the violation of the provisions of this
title or any amendments thereto. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Rules And Interpretation
10-2-2: Definitions
10-2-1: RULES AND INTERPRETATION:
The following rules shall apply for construing or interpreting the terms and
provisions of this title:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The words "shall", "must", and "will", are mandatory in nature,
establishing an obligation or duty to comply with the particular provision. The
word "may" is permissive in nature. Words used in the present tense include the
future tense. Words used in the singular number include the plural number and
the plural number includes the singular number, unless the context of the
particular usage clearly indicates otherwise. Words used in the masculine
gender include the feminine gender. The term person includes individual, firm,
partnership, association, corporation, company, organization, or partnership,
singular or plural, of any kind.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â In their application, the provisions of this title shall be the minimum
requirements for the promotion and protection of the public health, safety,
morals and general welfare, and shall be construed to achieve the purposes for
which this title is adopted.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â This title is not intended to abrogate any easement, covenant, or other
private agreement. However, where the regulations of this title are more
restrictive or impose higher standards or requirements than such easement,
covenant, or other private agreement, the requirements of this title shall
govern.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â In the event of a conflict between the text of this title and any
caption, figure, illustration, table, or map contained herein, the text shall
control.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title
shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public
health, safety, morals and welfare.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â When a use is not specifically listed in the sections devoted to
permitted uses, it shall be assumed that such uses are hereby expressly
prohibited. However, such uses may then be permitted by a written decision of
the zoning administrator stating that said use is similar to and not more
objectionable than uses listed.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â No building, structure, or use which was not lawfully existing at the
time of the adoption of this title shall become or be made lawful solely by
reason of the adoption of this title. To the extent, and in any matter that
said unlawful building, structure, or use is in conflict with the requirements
of this title, said building, structure, or use remains unlawful hereunder.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â The provisions of this title are cumulative and are additional
limitations upon all other laws and ordinances adopted prior to the effective
date hereof, or which may be passed hereafter governing any subject matter in
this title. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: A subordinate building or structure, including
garages, the use of which is in keeping with, and incidental to that of the
main building. Said accessory building shall clearly be located on the lot of
the main building, and shall not be used for habitation.
ADULT ARCADE: An establishment where, for any form of consideration, one or
more motion picture projectors, slide projectors, or similar machines for
viewing by five (5) or fewer people each are used to show films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions that are
characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
ADULT BUSINESS: Any adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult cabaret, adult hotel
or motel, adult modeling studio, adult theater or motion picture theater, adult
retail establishment, adult sexual encounter center, or any other business that
offers its patrons services or entertainment characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas, but not including those uses or activities, the
regulation of which is preempted by state or federal law.
ADULT BUSINESS, RETAIL: Retail adult businesses shall mean the following adult
businesses:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Adult Bookstores: An establishment: 1) having adult viewing materials
as a substantial or significant portion of its stock in trade, or 2) in which
adult viewing materials are displayed or sold for any form of consideration as
a principal use of the premises, or as a section, segment, or adjunct to some
other business, but for use or viewing off the premises.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Adult Retail Establishments: Any retail establishment which, for money
or any other form of consideration has as one of its principal purposes or
provides as its substantial stock in trade, the sale, exchange, rent, loan,
trade, transfer, or provision for use or viewing off the premises, any adult
oriented merchandise.
An adult business shall not be considered a retail adult business if it also
engages in business or activity that constitutes nonretail.
ADULT BUSINESSES, NONRETAIL: Nonretail adult businesses shall mean any adult
businesses other than retail adult businesses.
ADULT CABARET: Any nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar establishment that
regularly features persons in a state of nudity or seminudity, or live
performances, films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions that include or that are characterized by the
exposure of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
ADULT HOTEL OR MOTEL: A hotel or motel or similar establishment that: a) offers
public accommodations for any form of consideration where patrons are provided
closed circuit television or video transmissions, films, motion pictures,
videos, slides of other photographic reproductions that are characterized by
the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas and has a sign visible from the exterior of the premises
advertising the availability of this adult type of entertainment; or b) offers
a sleeping room for rent, allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to
subrent, for a period of time that is less than ten (10) hours.
ADULT MODELING STUDIO: A business which provides for any form of compensation,
monetary or otherwise, figure models who, for the purpose of sexual stimulation
of patrons, display specified anatomical areas to be observed, painted, painted
upon, sketched, drawn, sculptured, photographed, or otherwise depicted by such
customers.
ADULT ORIENTED MERCHANDISE: Merchandise, paraphernalia, devices, equipment or
items distinguished or relating to, or which are characterized by an emphasis
upon the depiction of, specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
ADULT SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER: A business or commercial enterprise that, as one
of its principal business activities, offers for any form of consideration, a
place where two (2) or more persons may congregate, assemble or associate for
the purpose of engaging in specified sexual activities or exposing specified
anatomical areas.
ADULT THEATER: Any theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar establishment
where, for any form of consideration, persons in a state of nudity or
seminudity are featured, or live performances are made, which are characterized
by the exposure of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas;
or where films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other photographic
reproductions are shown, and in which a substantial portion of the total
presentation is devoted to the showing of material characterized by an emphasis
upon the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT: An adult-use cannabis cultivation
center, craft grower, processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing
organization or transporting organization.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, P.A.
101-0027, as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER: A facility operated by an organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities to provide
cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, P.A. 101-0027, as it
may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, P.A. 101-0027, as it may
be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, P.A. 101-0027, as it may be amended from time to time,
and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR: A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, P.A. 101-0027, as it may be amended from time to time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER: An organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, P.A. 101-0027,
as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT VIEWING MATERIALS: Books, magazines or other periodicals, photographs,
drawings, slides, films, videotapes, CD-ROMs, recording tapes or other media,
and novelty items, which are distinguished or relating to, or which are
characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction of, specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas.
AIRPORT, LANDING STRIP, HELIPORT, OR HELISTOP: Any premises which are used, or
intended for use, for the landing and takeoff of aircraft; and any appurtenant
areas which are used or intended for use for airport buildings or other airport
structures or rights of way, together with all airport and structures located
thereon.
ALLEY: A right of way, with a width not exceeding twenty four feet (24'), which
affords a secondary means of access to abutting property.
ANIMAL HOSPITAL: Any building or portion thereof designed or used for the care,
observation or treatment of domestic animals.
AUTOMOBILE LAUNDRY: A structure, the principal use of which is to allow for
washing of vehicles with facilities for the cleaning, polishing, or waxing of
vehicles.
AUTOMOBILE OIL AND LUBE SHOP: Any building or structure used for automobile oil
change and lubrication, and other automotive fluid replacement.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR SHOP: The use of a site for the repair of automobiles,
trucks, motorcycles, motor homes, recreational vehicles, or boats, including
sale, installation, and servicing of equipment and parts. This includes muffler
shops, auto repair garages, tire sales, and installation, wheel and brake
shops, body and fender shops, and similar repair and service activities, but
excludes dismantling or salvage.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION, GAS STATION: A facility limited to retail sales to
the public of gasoline, motor oil, lubricants, motor fuels, travel aides, and
minor automobile accessories. In addition, such a facility may provide minor
vehicle servicing, minor repairs and maintenance, but only if rendered wholly
on- site.
BARBERSHOP: Any establishment or place of business within which the practice of
barbering is engaged in or carried out by one or more barbers.
BASEMENT: A portion of a building located partly underground, but having less
than half its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the average grade of the
adjoining ground.
BEAUTY PARLOR: Any commercial establishment or other place of business wherein
cosmetology is offered or practiced on a regular basis for compensation.
BLOCK: A tract of land bounded by streets or by a combination of one or more
streets and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights of way, bulkhead lines,
shorelines of waterways or corporate boundary lines.
BODY PIERCING: Any procedure whereby a part or parts of the human body are
pierced by a sharp instrument in order to allow insertion of a piece or pieces
of jewelry, a ring(s) or other ornamental device(s) through the orifice(s) thus
created. For the purposes of this regulation, ear piercing is excluded from the
definition of body piercing.
BOOTH: Any enclosure that is specifically offered to patrons of an adult
business for the private viewing of any adults-only item or movie. Said
definition does not include enclosures that are used as private offices by any
operator, employee or agent for attending to the tasks of their employment and
are not offered for use by the public.
BUILDABLE AREA: The area of a lot remaining after the minimum yard requirements
of the zoning ordinance have been met.
BUILDING: Anything constructed for shelter or enclosure of persons, animals,
chattels or movable property of any kind, and which is permanently affixed to
the land, excluding trailers or portable homes of this nature.
BUILDING, ACCESSORY OR ACCESSORY USE: An "accessory building or use" is one
which:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Is subordinate to and serves a principal building or principal use;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Is subordinate in area, extent or purpose to the principal building or
principal use served;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Is located on the same zoning lot as the principal building or
principal use served with the single exception of such accessory off-street
parking facilities as are permitted to locate elsewhere than on the same zoning
lot with the building or use served.
Accessory uses include satellite dishes, fences, off-street parking areas,
signs, garages, sheds, and carports. See figure 2.1 of this section.
Â Â Â Figure 2.1
BUILDING, DETACHED:. A principal building surrounded by open space on the same
lot.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The overall height of a building measured from the established
curb level to: a) the top of the roof for flat roof, b) the deck lines for
mansard roofs, and c) the average height between eaves and ridge for gable,
hip, or gambrel roofs. See figure 2.2 of this section.
Â Â Â Figure 2.2
BUILDING LINE: A line parallel to the street right-of-way line at any story
level of a building and representing the minimum distance which all or any part
of the building is set back from said right-of-way line. See figure 2.1 of this
section.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A nonaccessory building in which is conducted the
principal use of the lot on which it is located. See figure 2.1 of this
section.
BUILDING, RESIDENTIAL: A building arranged, designed, used, or intended to be
used for residential occupancy by one or more families. Residential buildings
include, but are not limited to, the following types:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Single-family detached dwellings.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Two-family dwellings.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Multiple-family dwellings.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â A row of one- or two-family attached dwellings developed initially
under single ownership or control.
BUILDING, TEMPORARY: Any building not designed to be permanently located in the
place where it is or where it is intended to be placed or affixed.
BULK: A characteristic of a given building including:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Size and height of buildings.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Location of exterior walls at levels in relation to lot lines, streets,
or other buildings.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Floor area ratio.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â All open spaces allocated to the building.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Amount of lot area provided per dwelling unit.
BUSINESS: Any lawful commercial endeavor to engage in the manufacturing,
purchase, sale, lease, or exchange of goods and/or the provision of services.
CELLAR: The portion of a building located partly or wholly underground, and
having half or more than half of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the
average grade of the adjoining ground.
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY: A document signed by the building commissioner
certifying that a building, structure, or land area and use thereof has been
inspected and found to comply with the building and zoning ordinances of the
village.
CHILDCARE OR DAYCARE FACILITY: A state-licensed facility where a person, other
than a relative or guardian, provides care and supervision for five (5) or more
children under seven (7) years of age, for less than twenty four (24) hours a
day for compensation.
CHURCH OR PLACE OF WORSHIP: An institution that people regularly attend to
participate in or hold religious services, meetings, and other activities. The
term "church" shall not carry a secular connotation and shall include buildings
in which the religious services of any denomination are held.
CLUB OR LODGE, PRIVATE: A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide
members paying dues, which owns, hires, or leases a building or portion
thereof, the use of such premises being restricted to members and their guests.
CONDOMINIUM PROPERTY: All land, property, and space on which is built one or
more attached, individually owned residences or units.
CONTIGUOUS: In contact, adjoining or touching another object or item as
distinguished from being adjacent.
COOPERATIVE: A multiple-family dwelling owned and maintained by its residents.
The entire property is under common ownership.
CUBICLE: Synonymous with "booth", as defined in this section.
CURB LEVEL: The level of the established curb in front of a building or
structure, measured at the center of such front. Where no curb level has been
established, it shall be deemed to be the established level of the center line
of the street surface in front of a building or structure, measured at the
center line of such front.
DECIBEL: A unit of measurement of the intensity (loudness) of sound. Sound
level meters which are employed to measure the intensity of sound are
calibrated in decibels.
DISTRICT: A section of the village of Broadview within which the regulations
governing the use of land are the same.
DOOR: Full, complete, nontransparent closure device that obscures the view or
activity taking place within the enclosure.
DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT: An enterprise which accommodates the patrons'
automobiles and from which the occupants of the automobiles may make purchases,
transact business, or view motion pictures.
DRIVE-THROUGH SERVICE: A facility which is accessory to a commercial retail
establishment, personal service establishment, office, financial institution or
fast-food restaurant and is designed or intended to enable a customer, without
exiting a motor vehicle moving through the premises, to transact business with
a person outside the motor vehicle.
DUPLEX: A building containing two (2) dwelling units, each of which typically
has access to the outside or to a common hall, no unit is located over the
other, and each is separated from the other by one or more common fire
resistant walls.
DWELLING: A residential building, or portion thereof, but not including hotels,
motels, rooming houses, nursing homes, tourist homes or trailers.
DWELLING, ATTACHED: A residential building which is joined to another dwelling
at one or more sides by a party wall or walls.
DWELLING, DETACHED: A single-family residential building entirely surrounded by
open space on the same lot.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building, or portion thereof, containing more than
three (3) dwelling units, designed or altered for occupancy by three (3) or
more families living independently of each other.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building containing one dwelling unit.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms in a residential building, or residential
portion of a building, which are arranged, designed, used or intended for use
by one family, and which includes cooking space and sanitary facilities
reserved for the occupants thereof.
EASEMENT: Land which has been designated by lawful agreement between the owner
of the land and a person, corporation or government for a specified use.
EFFICIENCY UNIT: A dwelling consisting of one principal room together with
bathroom, kitchen, hallway, closets or dining alcove directly off the principal
room, provided such dining alcove does not exceed one hundred twenty five (125)
square feet.
ELECTRIC DISTRIBUTION CENTER: A terminal at which electric energy is received
from the transmission system and is delivered to the distribution system only.
ELECTRIC SUBSTATION: A terminal at which electric energy is delivered to other
elements of the transmission system and, generally, to the local distribution
system.
ELECTRIC VEHICLE: A vehicle that operates, either partially or exclusively on
electrical energy from a charging station or other electrical energy source
that is stored in the vehicle's battery for propulsion purposes. "Electric
vehicle" includes: a) a battery electric vehicle, b) a hybrid electric vehicle.
c) a car-share electric vehicle, and d) electric scooters or motorcycles.
ELECTRIC VEHICLE - CAPABLE: Parking spaces that have listed raceway (conduit)
and electric capacity (breaker space) allocated in a local subpanel to
accommodate future electric vehicle supply equipment.
ELECTRIC VEHICLE - READY: Parking spaces that include the following components:
listed raceway (conduit), sufficient electrical panel service capacity,
overcurrent protection devices, wire, and suitable termination points such as a
junction box with a service loop or directly landed within an electric vehicle
supply equipment, i.e. full circuit.
ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATION (RETAIL): Equipment that has as its primary
purpose, the transfer of electric energy by conductive or inductive means to a
battery or other energy storage device located onboard an electric vehicle.
Various types of charging stations include:
1.Â Â Â Accessible EV Charging Station: A charging station incorporated into or
immediately adjacent to a handicapped parking space as "handicapped parking
space" as defined in the Illinois Vehicle Code.
2.Â Â Â Private EV Charging Station: A charging station that is: 1) privately
owned and has restricted access. e.g. single-family home, executive parking,
designated employee parking, etc.; or 2) publicly owned and has restricted
access (e.g. fleet parking with no access to the general public).
3.Â Â Â Public EV Charging Station: A charging station that is: 1) publicly owned
and publicly available (e. g., public parking lots, on street parking, etc.);
or 2) privately owned and publicly available, e. g., commercial development
parking, non-reserved parking in multiple family parking lots, etc.
ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING STATION LEVELS: The standardized indicators of
electrical force, or voltage at which an electric vehicle's battery is
recharged. Typical electric vehicle charging levels and specifications are:
Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Level 1: AC Slow Battery Charging: The charging station delivers
electric power to a vehicle's charging module which converts the AV power to DC
power and delivers it to the battery. Voltage is one hundred twenty (120)
volts.
Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Level 2: AC Medium Battery Charging: The charging station delivers
electric power to a vehicles' "S" charging module which converts the AC power
to DC power and delivers it to the battery. Voltage is between two hundred
eight (208) volts for commercial use and two hundred forty (240) volts for
residential use.
Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Level 3: DC Fast Or Quick Battery Charging: Also referred to as "DC
Fast". The charging station bypasses a vehicle's on-board charger to directly
deliver electricity to the vehicle's high voltage battery. Voltage is equal to,
or greater than, four hundred eighty (480) volts.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Level 1 and Level 2 charging stations are permitted in all zoning
districts when accessory to a primary permitted use in said zoning district.
Charging stations located in residential districts shall be designated for
private use only. Installation of Level 1 charging stations shall be subject to
building/electrical permit approval and inspection except when installed in the
R-1 zoning district for use accessory to a single-family residential structure
provided no new receptacle is installed. Installation of Level 2 charging
stations shall be subject to building/electrical permit and inspection approval
in all zoning districts. Charging stations within the R-1 zoning district shall
be located in a garage or other accessory structure in which the electric
vehicle is kept or stored.
FACADE: Any side, surface or wall below the roof of a building which is
parallel or within forty five degrees (45Â°) of parallel with a parcel's
frontage on a public thoroughfare. If a building has a complex shape, then all
walls or surfaces facing in the same direction, or nearly the same direction,
are part of a single facade.
FAMILY: One or more related persons or no more than four (4) persons (excluding
caregivers) who need not be related by blood, marriage or adoption, living
together and maintaining a common household, but not including sororities,
fraternities or other similar organizations.
FENCE, OPEN: A fence, including entrance and exit gates, designed and
constructed so that the surface area of any segment of such fence contains at
least fifty percent (50%) open spaces as compared to solid material.
FENCE, SOLID: A fence, including solid entrance and exit gates, which
effectively conceals from viewers in or on adjoining properties and streets,
materials stored and operations conducted behind it.
FLEA MARKET: A site either indoors or outdoors where individual stalls or
spaces are provided on a short term basis for vendors to display, buy, sell,
exchange or deal in new or used goods.
FLOOR AREA RATIO: The numerical value obtained through dividing the gross floor
area of a building or buildings by the net lot area on which such building or
buildings are located.
FREQUENCY: The number of oscillations per second in a sound wave, measuring the
pitch of the resulting sound.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: Any accessory building or an accessory portion of the
principal building which is intended for and used to store the private
passenger vehicles of the family or families resident on the premises, and in
which no business, service or industry connected directly or indirectly with
the automotive vehicles is carried on, provided that not more than one-half (1/
2) of the space may be rented for the private passenger vehicles of persons not
resident on the premises, except that all the space in a garage of one or two
(2) car capacity may also be rented. Such a garage shall not be used for more
than one commercial vehicle and the load capacity of such vehicle shall not
exceed one and one- half (11/2) tons.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: A garage, other than a private or storage garage, which is used
for the short-term parking of vehicles.
GARAGE, STORAGE: Any building or premises, other than a private or public
garage, used exclusively for the parking or storage of motor vehicles.
GROSS FLOOR AREA: The floor area of a building or buildings shall be the sum of
the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of such building or buildings,
measured from the exterior faces of exterior walls or from the center line of
party walls separating two (2) buildings. In particular, "gross floor area"
shall include:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Basement space if at least one-half (1/2) of the basement story height
is above the established curb or ground level;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Elevator shafts and stairwells at each floor;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Floor space used for mechanical equipment where the structural headroom
exceeds seven and one-half feet (71/2'); except equipment, open or enclosed,
located on the roof, i.e., bulkheads, water tanks, and cooling towers;
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Attic floor space where the structural headroom exceeds seven and one-
half feet (71/2');
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Interior balconies and mezzanines;
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Enclosed porches, but not terraces and breezeways;
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Accessory buildings.
GROSS LEASABLE AREA (GLA): The gross floor area minus the following deductions:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Elevator shafts and stairwells;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Public restrooms;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Public lobbies, common mall areas, atriums and courtyards at points of
pedestrian access to the building from the exterior.
GROUND FLOOR AREA: The lot area covered by a building measured from the
exterior faces of exterior walls, but excluding open porches or terraces,
garages or carports, but including breezeways and closed porches.
GROUP HOME: Any private residence licensed by the state as a rooming and/or
boarding house where ten (10) or fewer mentally or physically challenged
individuals or foster children reside with two (2) additional persons acting as
houseparents or guardians.
HOME OCCUPATION: A gainful occupation or profession conducted by a member of a
family residing on the premises, and where the business or profession is
conducted within the dwelling.
HOSPITAL: An institution providing physical health services, inpatient or
overnight accommodations, and medical or surgical care of the sick or injured.
HOTEL APARTMENT: A hotel in which at least fifty percent (50%) of the hotel
accommodations are for occupancy by permanent guests, thirty (30) days or more.
HOTEL, MOTEL: A building in which lodging is provided and offered to the public
for compensation and which is open to transient guests and is not a rooming or
boarding house as herein defined.
IMPERVIOUS LOT COVERAGE: A measurement of development intensity determined by
dividing that area of a lot which is occupied or covered by all impervious
surfaces, by the gross area of that lot.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: Any material that substantially reduces or prevents the
infiltration of storm water into the ground. Impervious surface shall include,
but not be limited to, the ground area covered by buildings, driveways, parking
areas, sidewalks, swimming pools, and patios (whether covered or uncovered).
See figure 2.3 of this section.
Â Â Â Figure 2.3
JUNKYARD: An open outdoor area where waste, used or secondhand materials are
bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled, or handled,
including, but not limited to, scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags, rubber
tires, and bottles. A junkyard includes an auto wrecking yard, but does not
include uses carried on entirely within enclosed buildings.
KENNEL: Any lot or premises or portion thereof on which more than four (4)
dogs, cats and other household domestic animals over four (4) months of age,
are kept or on which more than two (2) such animals are boarded for
compensation or kept for sale.
LIQUOR STORE: A business establishment where alcoholic liquors are kept and
sold but where such alcoholic liquors are not consumed on the premises.
LODGING ROOM: A room rented as sleeping and living quarters, but without
cooking facilities and with or without an individual bathroom. In a suite of
rooms, each room shall be counted as a lodging room.
LOT: A contiguous parcel of land in identical ownership throughout, bounded by
other lots or streets, and used or set aside and available for use as the site
of one or more buildings or other definite purpose.
LOT AREA: The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the vertical planes through
front, side and rear lot lines.
LOT, CORNER: A lot which adjoins the point of intersection of two (2) or more
streets and in which the interior angle formed by the street lines is one
hundred thirty five degrees (135Â°) or less. See figure 2.4 of this section.
LOT, FLAG: A lot not fronting or abutting a public roadway and where access to
the public roadway is limited to a narrow private right of way. See figure 2.4
of this section.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner or reversed corner lot. See figure 2.4
of this section.
LOT LINE, FRONT: That boundary line of any lot which is along an existing or
dedicated street lot line and which is established as a front lot line on the
plat of record filed by the owner, subdivider, or builder.
LOT LINE, REAR: The boundary of a lot which is most distant from and is, or is
most nearly, parallel to the front lot line. If a rear lot line is less than
ten feet (10') long, or if the lot comes to a point at the rear, the rear lot
line shall be a line at least ten feet (10') long, lying wholly within the lot,
parallel to the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: The boundary of a lot which extends from the front lot line to
the rear lot line.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot that is part of a recorded subdivision or a parcel of land
that has been recorded at the county recorder's office containing property tax
records.
LOT, THROUGH: A lot which has a pair of opposite lot lines along two (2)
substantially parallel streets and which is not a corner lot. On a through lot
both street lines shall be deemed front lot lines, but in the case of two (2)
or more contiguous through lots, there shall be a common front lot line. See
figure 2.4 of this section.
Â Â Â Figure 2.4
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot,
measured at the front setback line.
MARQUEE, CANOPY: A roof-like structure of permanent nature, which projects from
the wall of a building and may overhang the public way.
MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL: A building or premises in which freight is received or
dispatched by motor vehicle.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any self-propelled, wheeled vehicle designed primarily for
transportation of persons or goods along public streets.
NET LOT AREA: The area inside of lot lines exclusive of established or existing
street and alley rights of way.
NIGHTCLUB: An establishment serving food and/or liquor and providing music and
space for dancing by patrons only. A nightclub shall not include an "Adult
Business".
NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: A nonconforming building or structure,
legally established prior to the effective date hereof, or subsequent
amendment, which does not fully comply with the lot coverage and/or building
bulk regulations of the zoning district in which it is located.
NONCONFORMING USE: A nonconforming use is an activity using land, buildings
and/or structures for purposes which were legally established prior to the
effective date hereof, or subsequent amendment, and which would not be
permitted to be established as a new use in the zoning district in which it is
located by the regulations of this title.
NONCONFORMITY, LEGAL: A legal nonconformity is any land use, structure, or lot
of record legally established prior to the effective date hereof, or subsequent
amendment, which would either not be permitted by or is not in full compliance
with the regulations of this title.
NOXIOUS MATTER: Material which is capable of causing injury to living organisms
by chemical reaction or is capable of causing detrimental effects upon the
physical or economic well-being of individuals.
NUDITY: The display of the human male or female genitalia; pubic hair;
buttocks; perineum; anal or pubic regions; female breast, at or below the
areola thereof, with no covering or with a less than fully opaque covering; or,
male genitalia, in a discernible turgid state, with or without covering.
NURSING HOME: An establishment for the care of children or the aged or infirm.
Such a home does not contain equipment for medical and surgical care or for the
treatment of disease or injury, nor does it provide care in maternity or mental
illness. (See title 4, chapter 9 of this code for licensing provisions.)
OBSCENE: Any material or performance is obscene if:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The average person, applying contemporary adult community standards,
would find that, taken as a whole, it appeals to the prurient interest; and
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The average person, applying contemporary adult community standards,
would find that it depicts or describes, in a patently offensive way, ultimate
sexual acts or sadomasochistic sexual acts, whether normal or perverted, actual
or simulated, or masturbation, excretory functions or lewd exhibition of the
genitals; and
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Taken as a whole, it lacks serious literary, artistic, political or
scientific value 1 .
OBSTRUCTION: Any building or structure, or parts thereof, which is located so
as to come in the way of any open area required by this title.
OCTAVE BAND: A term denoting all the frequencies between any given frequencies
and double that frequency.
OCTAVE BAND FILTER: An electrical frequency analyzer designed according to
standards formulated by the American Standards Association and used in
conjunction with a sound level meter to take measurements in specific octave
intervals. (American standard for sound level meters. ASS no. 224.3-1944.)
ODOR THRESHOLD VALUE: The minimum concentration of odorous material in air
which can be detected as determined by manufacturing chemists association or
other qualified laboratory.
OFFICE: A room or group of rooms used for conducting the affairs of a business,
profession, service industry, or government.
OPEN SALES LOT: A primary or accessory use of land where merchandise, other
than automobiles or trucks, is stored, displayed, or exchanged outside of an
enclosed building or within a temporary structure, trailer, or tent.
OPEN SPACE (PUBLIC/PRIVATE): Land used for recreation, resource protection,
amenity, and/or buffer yards.
OPERATOR: For purposes of an "adult business", as defined herein, any person,
(whether said persons be an individual, partner, corporation, joint stock
company, fiduciary, officer, director, stockholder, employee, or manager),
which conducts, maintains or owns any adult business.
ORPHANAGE: An institution for the housing and care of a child who has lost both
parents or guardians.
OUTDOOR STORAGE, DISPLAY AND SALES: The placement of goods or materials outside
of an enclosed structure for the purposes of storage, advertising, or sale,
including, but not limited to: vehicles, garden supplies, plants, building and
landscaping supplies, raw materials, and seasonal items such as produce and
Christmas trees. This definition does not include ATMs, drive-through windows,
vending machines, the dispensing of petroleum products at service stations, or
the sale of food and beverages for immediate consumption, e.g., at a sidewalk
cafe or lemonade stand.
PARTICULATE MATTER: Material, other than steam or water vapor, which is
suspended or discharged into the atmosphere in finely divided form as a liquid
or solid at atmospheric pressure and temperature.
PARTY WALL: A wall starting from the foundation and extending continuously
through all stories to or above the roof which separates one building from
another, and is in joint use by each building.
PATRON: For purposes of an "adult business", as defined herein, any customer,
patron or visitor to an adult business who is not employed by any operator of
said establishment.
PAWNSHOPS: Any business engaged in receiving property in pledge or as security
for money or other thing advanced to the pawner or pledger and as regulated by
the pawnbroker regulation act, 205 Illinois Compiled Statutes 510/1 et seq.
PERFORMANCE STANDARD: A criterion to control noise, odor, smoke, toxic or
noxious matter, vibration, fire and explosive hazards, or glare or heat
generated by or inherent in uses of land or buildings.
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT: A unified development in single ownership or control, and
which includes two (2) or more principal buildings where the specific
requirements of a given district may be modified.
RAP PARLOR: An establishment or place primarily in the business of providing
nonprofessional conversation or similar services for adults, where explicit
sexual conduct is depicted and/or sexual activity is explicitly or implicitly
encouraged or tolerated.
REFUSE: All waste products resulting from human habitation except sewage.
RESEARCH LABORATORY: A building or group of buildings in which are located
facilities for scientific research, investigation, testing or experimentation,
but not primarily facilities for the manufacture or sale of products.
RESTAURANT, CARRYOUT: Any business establishment whose primary purpose is to
offer food and beverages for sale and served in disposable containers for
consumption off the premises, but is not necessarily a "fast food restaurant".
RESTAURANT, SIT-DOWN: Any business establishment, the primary purpose of which
is to offer food and beverages for sale and served for consumption at tables
typically in nondisposable containers on the premises.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a street,
crosswalk, railroad, electric transmission line, oil or gas pipeline, water
main, sanitary or storm sewer main, shade trees or other special use.
RINGELMANN CHART: A chart which is described in the U.S. bureau of mines
information circular 6888, and on which are illustrated graduated shades of
grey for use in estimating the light obscuring capacity of smoke.
RINGELMANN NUMBER: The number of the area on the Ringelmann chart that
coincides most nearly with the light obscuring capacity of smoke.
ROOM: Synonymous with "booth", as defined in this section.
ROOMING HOUSE, BED AND BREAKFAST, BOARDING HOUSE, OR TOURIST HOME: A building,
or portion thereof, containing lodging rooms which accommodates between three
(3) and ten (10) persons who are not members of the keepers' family, and where
lodging rooms or meals, or both, are provided for compensation.
SADOMASOCHISTIC ACTIVITY: Flagellation or torture by or upon a nude person; a
person clad in undergarments, a mask or bizarre costume. In addition, the
condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise physically restrained with the
intent to stimulate or arouse sexually the initiator and/or the recipient.
SCHOOL, PRIVATE: Any school that is not operated by a public school district or
college.
SCREENING: A structure erected or vegetation planted for concealing from
viewers the area behind it.
SELF-SERVICE STORAGE FACILITY: A building consisting of individual, small,
self-contained units that are leased or owned for the storage of business and
household goods or contractors' supplies.
SELL: Includes to solicit or receive an order for, to keep or expose for sale
and to keep with intent to sell.
SENIOR CITIZEN HOUSING: One or more one-family, two-family or multiple-family
dwellings or combinations of the above and related facilities specifically
designed for persons fifty five (55) years of age or older or couples where at
least one person is fifty five (55) years of age or older. This does not
include a development that contains convalescent or nursing facilities.
SEXUAL CONDUCT: Ultimate sex acts (whether autoerotic, heterosexual, homosexual
or otherwise), bestiality or sadomasochistic activity. In addition, physical
contact, intended to stimulate or arouse sexually the initiator and/or the
recipient, with a person's unclothed genitalia, buttocks, perineum, anal or
pubic regions, or female breast.
SMOKE UNITS, NUMBER OF: The number obtained by multiplying the smoke density in
Ringelmann numbers by the time of the emission in minutes. For the purpose of
this calculation, a Ringelmann density reading is made at least once every
minute during the period of observation; each reading is then multiplied by the
time in minutes during which it is observed; the various products are then
added together to give the total number of smoke units observed during the
total period under observation. Steam or water vapor is not considered smoke.
SOUND LEVEL METER: An instrument standardized by the American Standards
Association for measurement of the intensity of sound.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: Means and includes any of the following: a) less
than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region, buttocks,
anus, or female breasts below a point immediately above the top of the areolae;
or b) human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely or
opaquely covered.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Specified (or specific) sexual activities means
and includes any of the following: a) the fondling or other erotic touching of
human genitals, pubic region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts; b) sex acts,
normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including intercourse, oral
copulation, or sodomy; c) masturbation, actual or simulated; d) excretory
functions; or human genitalia in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor next above; or if there is no floor above, the space
between the floor and the ceiling next above. A basement shall be counted as a
story and a cellar shall not be counted as a story.
STORY, HALF: A space under a sloping roof which has the line of intersection of
roof decking and wall not more than three feet (3') above the top floor level,
and in which space not more than sixty percent (60%) of the floor area is
completed for principal or accessory use.
STREET, AVENUE, PLACE, TERRACE, OR PARKWAY: A right of way of required width
which affords a primary means of access to abutting property.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change, other than incidental repairs, in the
supporting members of a building or structure such as bearing walls or
partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any substantial change in the roof or
exterior walls.
STRUCTURE: Anything erected, the use of which requires more or less permanent
location on the ground or attached to something having a permanent location on
the ground. An advertising or business sign or other advertising device (see
chapter 9, "Signs", of this title), if detached or projecting, shall be
construed to be a separate structure. A satellite antenna shall be construed to
be a separate structure. (See section
9-2-7 of this code for satellite antennas.)
TATTOOING ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment which engages in the practice of
placing designs, letters, figures, symbols or other marks upon or under the
skin of any person, using ink or other substances that result in the permanent
coloration of the skin by means of the use of needles or other instruments
designed to contact or puncture the skin.
TAVERN OR COCKTAIL LOUNGE: A business establishment where alcoholic liquors are
sold to be consumed on the premises. (See title 3, chapter 3 of this code for
liquor control.)
TEMPORARY CARPORT: A nonpermanent structure designed as a shelter for motor
vehicles, boats, etc. Such structures shall be easily relocatable, shall not be
permanently affixed to a foundation, and shall not otherwise require the
issuance of a building permit.
TOWNHOUSE: An attached single-family residential housing design which typically
contains three (3) or more residential dwelling units, each of which has its
own front and rear access to the outside, no unit is located over another unit,
and each is separated from any other unit by one or more common fire resistant
walls.
TOXIC MATERIALS: A substance, liquid, solid or gaseous, which by reason of an
inherent deleterious property, tends to destroy life or impair health.
TRAILER: Any vehicle, camper, or any portable or mobile vehicle on wheels,
skids, rollers or blocks, either self-propelled or propelled by any other means
which is used for living or sleeping purposes.
TRAILER PARK: Any premises on which are parked two (2) or more trailers or any
premises used or held out for the purpose of supplying to the public a parking
space for two (2) or more such trailers. It does not include sales lots on
which automobiles or unoccupied trailers, new or used, are parked for purposes
of inspection or sale.
UNDERAGE: Any person under eighteen (18) years of age, the legally minimum age
at which one can purchase or view adults only items 1 .
USE: The purpose or activity for which the land or building thereon is
designed, arranged or intended or for which it is occupied or maintained.
USE, CONDITIONAL: A use of property specifically authorized by zoning
ordinance, but not permitted unless certain conditions have been met. A
conditional use permit must be applied for and approved by the zoning
administrator.
USE, PERMITTED: Any building, structure and use which, on the effective date of
this title, complies with the applicable regulations governing permitted uses
of the zoning district in which such building, structure and use is located.
USE, PRINCIPAL: The main use of land or building as distinguished from a
subordinate or accessory use.
USE, SPECIAL: A use of property that because of its unique characteristics
cannot be properly classified as a permitted use or any particular zoning
district or districts. A special use permit must be applied for with the zoning
administrator, reviewed by public hearing by the planning and zoning board, and
approved by the village board of trustees.
YARD: An open space on a lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its
lowest level to the sky, except as otherwise permitted in this title. A yard
extends along a lot line and at right angles to such line to a depth or width
specified in the yard regulations for the district in which such lot is
located.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending along the full width of the established front lot
line between side lot lines and from the abutting established front street
right of way line to the front building line in depth. See figure 2.5 of this
section.
YARD, REAR: The portion of the yard on the same lot with the principal building
located between the rear line of the principal building and the rear lot line,
and extending for the full width of the lot. See figure 2.5 of this section.
Â Â Â Figure 2.5
YARD, SIDE: A yard extending along a side lot line between the front and rear
yards. See figure 2.5 of this section.
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: A duly authorized village employee who administers the
various codes and ordinances of the village, including, but not limited to,
this title.
ZONING LOT OR LOTS: A single tract of land which is designated by its owner or
developer as a tract to be used, developed or built upon as a single unit,
under single control or ownership. It may be a single parcel separately
described in a deed or plat which is recorded in the office of the county
recorder of deeds, or it may include parts of or a combination of such parcels
when adjacent to one another and used as one lot. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001;
amd. Ord. 2004-28, 12-6-2004; Ord. 2005-19, 8-1-2005; Ord. 2005-27, 11-7-2005;
Ord. 2008-24, 7-21-2008; Ord. 2008-42, 11-17-2008; Ord. 2019-31, 12-2-2019;
Ord. 2025-6, 4-21-2025)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/11-20.
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/11-20.
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: General Regulations
10-3-2: New Structures
10-3-3: Number Of Structures On A Zoning Lot
10-3-4: Division Of Zoning Lots
10-3-5: Use And Building Bulk Regulations
10-3-6: Permitted Obstructions In Required Building Setback Areas; Yard
Requirements
10-3-7: Access To Public Streets
10-3-8: Accessory Buildings
10-3-9: Cargo Container Regulations
10-3-10: Severability
10-3-11: Contradictory Regulations
10-3-12: Relationship To Comprehensive Plan
10-3-1: GENERAL REGULATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â All buildings erected hereafter, all uses of land or buildings
established hereafter and all structural alterations or relocations of existing
buildings occurring hereafter shall be subject to all regulations of this title
where applicable to the zoning districts in which such buildings, uses or land
shall be located.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â However, where a building permit for a building or structure has been
issued in accordance with law, prior to the effective date hereof, and provided
that the construction is begun within six (6) months of such effective date and
diligently prosecuted to completion (completion to be accomplished within 18
months of the adoption of this title), said building or structure may be
completed in accordance with approved plans, on the basis of which the building
permit has been issued, and further, may, upon completion and inspection, be
occupied under a certificate of occupancy by the use for which it was
originally designated, subject thereafter to the provisions of chapter 5,
"Nonconforming Uses And Structures", of this title.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Where the zoning administrator has issued a permitted use permit, a
special use permit or a permit for variation, pursuant to the provisions of
this title, such permit shall become null and void unless work thereon is
substantially underway within six (6) months of the date of the issuance of
such permit by the zoning administrator and completed within eighteen (18)
months of the issuance of such permit.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â A special use permit shall be deemed to authorize only the particular
use for which it was issued. Such permits shall automatically expire or cease
to be of any force or effect if such use shall be discontinued for six (6)
consecutive months or more, and a new special use permit must be obtained from
the village according to the guidelines contained within this title. (Ord.
2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-3-2: NEW STRUCTURES:
All structures built hereafter shall comply with all of the regulations of this
zoning ordinance. Any structure hereafter moved from one site to another shall
be considered to be a structure built hereafter. Any structure rebuilt or
restored after damage or destruction by fire or other casualty shall be
considered to be a structure built hereafter. All enlargements of, or additions
to, existing uses occurring hereafter shall comply with the regulations of this
title. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-3-3: NUMBER OF STRUCTURES ON A ZONING LOT:
Not more than one principal building shall be located on a single zoning lot,
nor shall a principal building be located on the same zoning lot with any other
principal building, unless such principal building is located in a planned
development that has been approved pursuant to the provisions of this title.
(Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-3-4: DIVISION OF ZONING LOTS:
No improved zoning lot shall hereafter be divided into two (2) or more zoning
lots unless all improved zoning lots resulting from each such division shall
conform with all the applicable bulk regulations of the zoning district in
which the property is located. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-3-5: USE AND BUILDING BULK REGULATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Use: No building, structure or land shall hereafter be used or
occupied, and no building or part thereof, or other structure, shall be
erected, raised, moved, reconstructed, extended, enlarged or altered except in
conformity with the regulations herein specified for the district in which it
is located.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Building Bulk: All new buildings and structures shall conform to the
building regulations established herein for the district in which each building
shall be located, except that parapet walls, chimneys, cooling towers, elevator
bulkheads, fire towers, stacks and necessary mechanical appurtenances shall be
permitted to exceed the maximum height provisions when erected in accordance
with all other ordinances of the village of Broadview.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Yards: Whenever any ordinance or a covenant to which the village is a
part stipulates a front yard or setback requirement along any street in any
district which is greater than the front yard requirement of the zoning
district in which it is located, then the greater requirement shall apply.
Â Â Â TABLE 3-1
Â Â Â BULK REGULATIONS
                               Â Â Â R-1 Single-  Â Â Â R-2 Multiple-  Â Â Â R-3 Multiple-
                               Â Â Â Family       Â Â Â Family         Â Â Â Family
                               Â Â Â Residence    Â Â Â Residence      Â Â Â Residence
                               Â Â Â District     Â Â Â District       Â Â Â District
Â Â Â Dwelling Type To Which ThÂ                  Â                    Â 
Â Â Â Following Regulations AppÂ Â Â Single-FamilyÂ Â Â Multiple-FamilyÂ Â Â Multiple-Family
              Minimum total    Â Â Â 5,000        Â Â Â 9,000          Â Â Â 12,000
Â Â Â Lot     lot area         Â Â Â square feet  Â Â Â square feet    Â Â Â square feet
Â Â Â DimensioMinimum width at Â Â Â 50 feet      Â Â Â 60 feet        Â Â Â 100 feet
              building line
                               20 feet, or a
              Minimum front    uniform setback
              yard interior    maintained by 1/   Â Â Â 10 feet        Â Â Â 10 feet
Â             lot              2 of residences on
Â                              a block
Â             Minimum interior Â Â Â 5 feet       Â Â Â 5 feet         Â Â Â 5 feet
Â             side yard
Â             Minimum side
Â             yard on corner   Â Â Â 10 feet      Â Â Â 10 feet        Â Â Â 10 feet
Â             lot
Â Â Â Required                                    10 percent of depth  10 percent of depth
Â Â Â Yard                                        of corner lot and 15 of corner lot and 15
Â Â Â Area    Minimum rear                        percent of depth of  percent of depth of
Â Â Â Setbacksyard             Â Â Â 30 feet      interior lot, but    interior lot, but
                                                  not less than 10     not less than 10
                                                  feet and not more    feet and not more
                                                  than 25 feet         than 25 feet
              Maximum
Â             impervious       Â Â Â 50 percent   Â Â Â 75 percent     Â Â Â 80 percent
Â Â Â Bulk    coverage
              Maximum height   Â Â Â 35 feet      Â Â Â 35 feet        Â Â Â 45 feet
Â 
Â 
                         Â Â Â C-1        Â Â Â C-2     Â                  Â Â Â O/I     Â 
                         Â Â Â Roosevelt  Â Â Â General Â Â Â I            Â Â Â Office/ Â Â Â M
                         Road             Â Â Â CommerciÂ Â Â InstitutionalÂ Â Â IndustriÂ Â Â Manufacturing
                         Â Â Â Commercial Â Â Â DistrictÂ Â Â District     Â Â Â DistrictÂ Â Â District
                         Â Â Â District
                                          10 foot
                                          landscaped
                         None, or where   front yard,   10 feet, or where
                         adjacent to      or where      adjacent to
                         residential,     adjacent to   residential, front
              Minimum    front yards      residential,  yard shall be the  Â Â Â 35 feet Â Â Â 40 feet
              front yard shall be the     front yards   same as adjacent
                         same as adjacent shall be the  residential
                         residential      same as       district
                         district         adjacent
                                          residential
                                          district
                                          Where
Â                                         adjacent to
Â Â                                       residential,
Â                        None, or where   side yards
Â                        adjacent to      shall be the
Â                        residential,     same as in                       20 feet, or   20 feet, or 40
Â Â Â RequiredMinimum    side yards shall adjacent      Â Â Â 10 feet      35 feet if    feet if abutting a
Â Â Â Yard    side yard  be the same as   residential                      abutting a    street
Â Â Â Area               in adjacent      district; a                      street
Â Â Â Setbacks           residential      10 foot side
                         district         yard shall be
                                          maintained on
                                          all corner
                                          lots
                                          Where         10 percent of
                         Where adjacent   adjacent to   depth of corner
                         to a residential the rear lot  lot and 15 percent
              Minimum    district, a 15   line of a     of depth of
              rear yard  foot rear yard   residential   interior lot, but  Â Â Â 10 feet Â Â Â 10 feet
                         shall be         district, a   not less than 10
                         provided         20 foot rear  feet and not more
                                          yard shall be than 25 feet
                                          provided
              Maximum
Â             impervious Â Â Â 90 percent Â Â Â 80 perceÂ Â Â 80 percent   Â Â Â 90 perceÂ Â Â 90 percent
Â Â Â Bulk    coverage
              Maximum    Â Â Â 45 feet    Â Â Â 45 feet Â Â Â 45 feet      Â Â Â 60 feet Â Â Â 60 feet
              height
Â 
(Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001; amd. Ord. 2007-10, 4-16-2007)
10-3-6: PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS IN REQUIRED BUILDING SETBACK AREAS; YARD
REQUIREMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â In All Yards:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Open terraces not over four feet (4') above the average level of the
adjoining ground, and not closer than two feet (2') to the adjacent property
line;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Awnings and canopies, but not projecting more than five feet (5'),
and at least seven feet (7') above the average level of the adjoining ground;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Steps, four feet (4') or less above grade, which are necessary for
access to a permitted building or for access to a zoning lot from a street or
alley;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Chimneys projecting eighteen inches (18") or less into the yard;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Arbors or trellises (not exceeding 8 feet in height), flagpoles,
fountains, sculptures, plant boxes, and other similar ornamental objects;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Open or lattice enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways,
fire towers, and balconies projecting into a required front and rear yard by
not more than ten feet (10'), and into a required side yard by not more than
five feet (5');
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Driveways and parking spaces as restricted in chapter 6 of this
title;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Basketball backboards and/or hoops;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Fences and walls not exceeding six feet (6') in height in side and
rear yards.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â In Front Yards:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â One-story bay windows projecting three feet (3') or less into the
yards;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Overhanging eaves and gutters projecting three feet (3') or less
into the yard;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Freestanding yard lights in front yards, providing that in
residential districts such lights do not exceed seven feet six inches (7'6") in
height, nor shall such light be permitted to increase the level of illumination
at the side lot line more than one-half (1/2) foot-candle.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â In Rear Yards:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Private garage, accessory shed, toolrooms and similar buildings for
domestic storage;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Balconies, breezeways, and open porches;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â One-story bay windows projecting three feet (3') or less into the
yard;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Overhanging eaves and gutters projecting two feet (2') or less into
the yard.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Side Yards:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Overhanging eaves and gutters projecting into the yard for a
distance not exceeding forty percent (40%) of the required yard width, but in
no case exceeding two feet (2'). (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-3-7: ACCESS TO PUBLIC STREETS:
Except as otherwise provided for herein, every building shall be constructed or
erected upon a lot or parcel of land which abuts upon a public street unless a
permanent easement of access to a public street was of record prior to the
adoption of this title. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-3-8: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No accessory building, unless it is structurally a part of the
principal building and unless it conforms with the requirements of accessory
buildings for special uses, shall be erected or altered at, nor moved to, a
location within ten feet (10') of the nearest wall of the principal building,
nor within the required area for front or side yard on the lot as set forth for
the district. In residence districts, an accessory building in a rear yard
shall be not less than three feet (3') from any property line except where
alleys exist.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No accessory building shall encroach upon that side yard of a corner
lot which is adjacent to the street, nor upon that side yard of a reversed
corner lot which is adjacent to the street, nor upon the rear yard of a through
lot.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â No accessory building shall have more than one story nor exceed
fourteen feet (14') in height from the grade to the top peak, unless otherwise
permitted as accessory to business and manufacturing uses or to authorized
special uses. (Ord. 2004-14, 6-21-2004)
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Temporary carports. (Ord. 2005-27, 11-7-2005)
10-3-9: CARGO CONTAINER REGULATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â General Provisions: Cargo containers shall be restricted as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The placement of cargo containers on residentially zoned property
(R-1 through R-3) shall be prohibited.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The placement of cargo containers on commercial and institutional
districts (C-1, C-2, and I) shall be restricted to designated loading berth
areas meeting the provisions of section
10-6-7 of this title. In no instance shall cargo containers be placed in front
of the front wall of a principal building.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The placement of cargo containers within the office/industrial and
manufacturing districts (O/I and M) shall be restricted to:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â A concrete or asphalt surfaced area within the buildable area of
the lot; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Designated loading berth areas meeting the provisions enumerated
in section
10-6-7 of this title.
In no instance shall cargo containers be placed in front of the front wall of a
principal building.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Sites Under Construction: For properties in which there is an active
building permit issued by the village for a multiple-family or nonresidential
development, up to two (2) cargo containers may be placed on a property
provided that they are placed within the buildable area of the lot. Cargo
containers used for construction purposes must be immediately removed upon
completion of the construction project.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Cargo Container Amortization Schedule: Any cargo container lawfully
existing on July 1, 2004, which does not conform to the provisions of this
title, shall be removed or made to conform within one year of the date of
notification by the village that the cargo container no longer conforms with
this code. Any cargo container lawfully existing on July 1, 2004, which does
not conform to the provisions of this section may request a variance as
outlined in section
10-7-3 of this title. (Ord. 2004-14, 6-21-2004)
10-3-10: SEVERABILITY:
In the event any word, phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, provision, or
section of this title or any portion thereof shall be held to be
unconstitutional, unenforceable, or void, the same shall not affect the
validity or enforceability of any remaining words, phrases, clauses, sentences,
paragraphs, provisions, or sections thereof. (Ord. 2004-14, 6-21-2004)
10-3-11: CONTRADICTORY REGULATIONS:
Where any contradictory regulations, restrictions or requirements imposed by
any provision of this title upon the use of land, building, structures or
improvements are either more restrictive or less restrictive than restrictions
or requirements imposed by any other provision of this title or any other law
of any governmental body having jurisdiction over the subject matter thereof,
those restrictions or requirements which are more restrictive shall govern.
(Ord. 2004-14, 6-21-2004)
10-3-12: RELATIONSHIP TO COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
The comprehensive plan shall be advisory only and in and of itself shall not be
construed or interpreted as regulating or controlling the use of any private
property and it is not the intent of the village that owners of private
property should rely on recommendations in the comprehensive plan being
translated into presently effective regulations. The decision as to whether and
when particular elements of the comprehensive plan will be implemented in
regulatory ordinances is reserved for the village board. (Ord. 2004-14, 6-21-
2004)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS; MAP
SECTION:
10-4-1: Establishment Of Districts
10-4-2: Official Zoning Map
10-4-3: Interpretation Of District Boundaries
10-4-4: Use District Table
10-4-5: Interpretation Of Uses
10-4-6: Special And Conditional Zoning District Use Standards
10-4-7: Scope Of Requirements
10-4-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS:
The village of Broadview, Illinois, is hereby divided into the following
districts:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â R-1 Single-Family District: The R-1 district is established to preserve
and protect existing low density, detached single-family residential
development and to encourage and promote compatible development where the
permitted uses, lot areas, setbacks and other requirements are designed to
encourage quality residential development.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â R-2 Multi-Family District: The R-2 district provides a moderate density
environment of single-family homes, two-family development, and multi-family
dwellings including townhomes, two- flats and small (3 to 4 unit) apartments.
This district may provide a transition between single-family and higher
intensity uses.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â R-3 Multi-Family District: The R-3 district provides opportunities for
condominiums, apartments, and other multi- family housing.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â I Institutional District: The I district accommodates existing and
future public buildings and recreational uses, and other uses having purposes
and impacts similar to public buildings. By creation of this special district,
it is the intent of this title to avoid the problems inherent in treating such
buildings as permitted or special uses in zoning districts characterized by
uses and structures bearing no similarity to public and institutional uses and
buildings.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â C-1 Roosevelt Road Commercial District: The C-1 district provides a
variety of commercial and service uses including retail shopping and
convenience stores, offices and personal business services, designed to provide
for the needs of Broadview residents and to enhance the economic vitality of
the community. Mixed use development recommended in the village's comprehensive
plan is appropriate in this district, with special use approval to accommodate
residential development on upper stories. Uses in this district produce a high
volume of vehicular and pedestrian traffic and should have access to major
streets and transportation.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â C-2 General Commercial District: The C-2 district provides a variety of
more intense commercial uses including retail shopping and convenience stores,
offices and personal business services, designed to provide for the needs of
Broadview residents and to enhance the economic vitality of the community. Uses
in this district produce a very high volume of vehicular and pedestrian traffic
and should have access to major streets and transportation.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â O/I Office/Industrial District: The O/I district provides opportunities
for office and light industrial uses in an environment where setbacks and other
requirements are designed to encourage quality development with minimal impact
on the adjacent nonindustrial uses.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â M Manufacturing District: The M district provides opportunities for
manufacturing, industrial, and restricted commercial uses in an environment
where setbacks and other requirements are designed to encourage quality
development with minimal impact on the adjacent nonindustrial uses.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â C-E Cannabis Establishment Overlay District: The C-E district provides
areas where adult-use cannabis craft growers, adult-use cannabis cultivation
centers, adult-use cannabis infusers, adult-use cannabis processors, and adult-
use cannabis transporters may be allowed within the village. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-
2-2001; amd. Ord. 2008-24, 7-21-2008; Ord. 2019-31, 12-2-2019)
10-4-2: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
The boundaries of the zoning districts are established as shown on the map
entitled "zoning map of Broadview, Illinois", which map, as amended, is on file
in the office of the village clerk, and shall have the same force and effect as
if the zoning map, together with all notations, references and other
information shown thereon are a part of this title as fully set forth and
described herein. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-4-3: INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
When uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various districts
as shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â District boundary lines are either the centerlines of railroads,
highways, streets, alleys or easements, or the boundary lines of lots, or such
lines extended, unless otherwise indicated.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â All streets, alleys, public ways, waterways and railroad rights of way,
if not otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to be in the same
zone as the property immediately abutting on such alleys, streets, public ways
and railroad rights of way or waterways. Where the centerline of a street,
alley, public way, waterway or railroad right of way serves as a district
boundary, the zoning of such areas, unless otherwise specifically designated,
shall be deemed to be the same as that of the abutting property up to such
centerline. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-4-4: USE DISTRICT TABLE:
No building or premises improved or unimproved shall be used, and no building
shall be hereafter erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, or structurally
altered, except for a purpose permitted in the district in which the building
or land is located as shown in table 4-1 of this section.
Â Â Â TABLE 4-1
Â Â Â BROADVIEW ZONING ORDINANCE USE LIST
Key:
P â€“ Permitted
S â€“ Special
C â€“ Conditional
     (A         (B-1       (B-2
     Single-    Multiple-  Multiple-  (C-1        (C-2                      (CC                       C-E
     Family     Family     Family     Commercial) Commercial)               Industrial)               Cannabis
Use  Residence) Residence) Residence) C-1         C-2         I             O/I         M             Establishment
List R-1        R-2        R-3        Roosevelt   General     Institutional Office And  Manufacturing Overlay
     Single-    Multi-     Multi-     Road        Commercial                Industrial                District
     Family     Family     Family     Commercial
     Residence  Residence  Residence
                   (A         (B-1       (B-2
                   Single-    Multiple-  Multiple-  (C-1        (C-2                      (CC                       C-E
                   Family     Family     Family     Commercial) Commercial)               Industrial)               Cannabis
Use List           Residence) Residence) Residence) C-1         C-2         I             O/I         M             Establishment
                   R-1        R-2        R-3        Roosevelt   General     Institutional Office And  Manufacturing Overlay
                   Single-    Multi-     Multi-     Road        Commercial                Industrial                District
                   Family     Family     Family     Commercial
                   Residence  Residence  Residence
Â Â Â Residential
Condominiums                  P          P
Dwelling unit on
second floor above                                  S
commercial
Group homes        S          C          C
Multiple-family
dwellings housing             P          P
a maximum of 6
dwelling units
Multiple-family
dwellings housing                        P
more than 6
dwelling units
Nursing homes      S          C          C
Rooming house/bed  S          P          P
and breakfast
Senior citizen                P          P          S
housing
Single-family      P          P          P
dwellings
Townhouses                    P          P
Two-family         S          P          P
dwellings
Â Â Â Institutional
Ambulance service                                               P           P             P           P
Cemeteries                                                                  P
Churches
(religious         S          S          S                                  P
institutions)
Clubs and lodges
(private,                                           P           P           P
fraternal,
religious)
Colleges and                                                                P
universities
Community center                                    P           P           P
Convents,
monasteries,       S          S          S                                  P
seminaries
Hospitals                                           S           S           P
Libraries          S          S          S          S           S           P
Medical/dental                                      P           P           P
clinics
Meeting hall                                        P           P           P
Parks and
playgrounds,       S          S          S                                  P
privately owned
and operated
Parks and
playgrounds,       P          P          P                                  P
publicly owned and
operated
Post office                                         P           P           P
Public garage                                       P           P           P
Schools
(commercial or                                      P           P           P             P
trade)
Schools (public or S          S          S                                  P
private)
Utilities and
public services:
Electrical         S          S          S                                  P             P           P
substations
Fire stations                            S                      P           P             P           P
Police stations                          S                      P           P             P           P
Public
transportation                           S          P           P           P             P           P
facilities
Public works                             S                                  P             P           P
Water filtration   S          S          S                                  P             P           P
plants
Â Â Â Commercial
Adult use                                                                                             P
Adult-use cannabis                                                                                                  P
craft growers
Adult-use cannabis
cultivation                                                                                                         P
centers
Adult-use cannabis
dispensing                                          S           S
organization8
Adult-use cannabis                                                                                                  P
infusers
Adult-use cannabis                                                                                                  P
processors
Adult-use cannabis                                                                                                  P
transporters
Amusement                                           P           P
establishment1
Animal hospital                                                 S                         S           S
Antique shop                                        P           P
Art galleries and                                   P           P           P
museums
Auction room                                                    P                         S
Automobile laundry                                              S
Automobile rental                                               P
Automobile repair                                               P                         P
Automobile service                                  S           P
station
Automobile supply                                   P           P
store
Automotive vehicle                                              P
sales
Bakery                                              P           P
Banks and
financial                                           P           P                         S           S
institutions
Barbershop                                          C           C
Beauty shop                                         C           C
Blueprinting and
photocopying                                        P           P                         P           P
establishment
Building material                                               P                         P           P
sales2
Camera,
photographic                                        P           P
supply and studio
Candy store                                         P           P
Catalog sales                                       P           P
office
Clothing rental                                     P           P
store
Clothing sales                                      P           P
Contractors and
construction                                                    S                         P           P
office
Convenience store                                   P           P
Currency exchange                                   P           P
Day spa                                             P           P
Daycare            C          C          C          C           C           C             S
Delicatessen                                        P           P
Dog kennel                                          S           S                         S           S
Dollar or discount                                  P           P
stores
Drive-in                                                        P
restaurant
Drugstore and                                       P           P
pharmacies
Dry cleaning                                        P           P                         S
establishment
Electric vehicle   P -        P -        P -
charging station   accessory  accessory  accessory  P           P           P             P           P
(primary and       use        use        use
accessory use)
Electrical and
household                                           P           P
appliance store
Exterminating shop                                              S                         P           P
Feed store                                                      P                         P
Florist shop                                        P           P
Food carryout                                       P           P
service
Food store                                          P           P
Fortune tellers/                                                                                      P
psychics
General                                             P           P
merchandise store
General office                                      P           P                         P           P
Gift shop                                           P           P
Golf courses3      S          S          S
Greenhouse                                          S           P                         S           S
Gun dealers                                         C           C
Hardware store                                      P           P
Health club                                         P           P
Hobby shop                                          P           P
Home furnishings                                    P           P
store
Home occupations   C          C          C
Hotel/motel                                         S           P                         P
Indoor or outdoor                                   S           S
flea market
Indoor theater                                                  P
Insurance office                                    P           P
Jewelry store                                       P           P
Job printing shop4                                  P           P                         P
Law offices                                         P           P
Liquor store                                        P           P
Machinery                                                       P                         P           P
equipment sales5
Meat market6                                        P           P
Mortuary                                            P           P
Music/record                                        P           P
stores
Newsstand                                           P           P
Nurseries7                                          P           P
Office equipment                                    P           P
and supply store
Open sales lot                                      S           S
Orthopedic and
medical appliance                                   P           P
store
Painting and
decorating                                          P           P
supplies
Pawnshop                                                                                  P           P
Personal loan                                       P           P
service
Pet shop                                            P           P
Radio and
television                                                      P                         P           P
broadcasting
station
Radio, television
and audio                                           P           P
equipment store
Real estate office                                  P           P
Recording studio                                    P           P                         P           P
Restaurant                                          P           P                         S           S
Restaurant
including live                                      S           P
dancing and
entertainment
Self-service                                        P           P
laundromat
Shooting ranges                                     C           C                         C
Sporting goods                                      P           P
store
Stationery and                                      P           P
book store
Tailor/clothing                                     P           P
repair
Tattoo parlor                                                                                         S
Tavern                                              P           P
Tobacco store                                       P           P
Trailer or car                                                  P
rental
Truck sales                                                     P
Undertaking
establishment and                                   P           P
funeral parlor
Upholstery and
drapery materials                                   P           P
shop
Variety store                                       P           P
Wall and floor                                      P           P
covering store
Â Â Â Industrial
Ammonia production                                                                        S           P
Asphalt plant                                                                             S           S
Caskets and casket                                                                        P           P
supplies
Chlorine                                                                                  S           P
production
Concrete mixing                                                                           P           P
plants
Confectionery                                                                             P           P
Crematory                                                                                 S           P
Creosote
manufacture or                                                                            P           P
treatment
Fireworks or
explosive                                                                                 S           P
manufacture or
storage
General
manufacturing and                                                                         P           P
assembly
Ironworks                                                                                 P           P
Petroleum
processing or                                                                             S           P
refining
Pharmaceutical                                                                            P           P
manufacture
Plastics                                                                                  P           P
manufacture
Printing,
publishing and                                                                            P           P
bookbinding
Recycling center                                                                          S           S
Saltworks                                                                                 P           P
Smelters                                                                                  S           P
Soap manufacture                                                                          P           P
Stockyards or
slaughter of                                                                              S           P
animals
Synthetic polymers                                                                        P           P
Tar distillation                                                                          S           P
or manufacture
Warehouse or                                                                              P           P
wholesale
Wood products                                                                             P           P
manufacture
Â Â Â Other
Accessory          P          P          P          P           P           P             P           P
buildings/uses
Parking lots                                        P           P           P             P           P
Telecommunications                                                                        P           P
towers
Â 
Notes:
1.Â Â Â Includes bowling alleys, pool halls, dance halls, gymnasiums, swimming
pools, and skating rinks.
2.Â Â Â With accessory outside storage, provided outside storage does not exceed
16 feet in height.
3.Â Â Â Not including commercially operated driving ranges or miniature golf
courses.
4.Â Â Â Using presses having beds of not more than 14 inches and 20 inches.
5.Â Â Â Not including service, repair or reconditioning; and storage of all
machinery shall be within enclosed buildings.
6.Â Â Â Including sale of meat and meat products to restaurants, hotels, clubs and
other wholesale establishments when conducted as part of the retail business on
the premises.
7.Â Â Â Provided that no offensive odors or dusts are created, and further, that
no retail sales are conducted from a store erected or maintained on the
premises.
8.Â Â Â Subject to additional limitations listed in section
10-4-6.
(Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001; amd. Ord. 2004-28, 12-6-2004; Ord. 2008-24, 7-21-
2008; Ord. 2008-42, 11-17-2008; Ord. 12-34, 5-21-2012; Ord. 2019-31, 12-2-2019;
Ord. 2025-6, 4-21-2025)
10-4-5: INTERPRETATION OF USES:
The planning and zoning board shall have the right to permit any other use not
specifically listed in section
10-4-4, table 4-1 of this chapter, without formal amendment, provided that the
proposed use is similar to and compatible with those uses permitted in the
district in question, and which is consistent with the purposes of this title.
The planning and zoning board shall receive input from the zoning administrator
prior to making a determination on unlisted uses. A denial may be appealed to
the Broadview village board. (Ord. 2008-24, 7-21-2008)
10-4-6: SPECIAL AND CONDITIONAL ZONING DISTRICT USE STANDARDS:
The use standards of this section apply to respective use types whether they
are allowed as permitted uses, conditional uses, special uses, or accessory
uses:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Off Street Parking:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Automobile and truck parking facilities shall be provided for each
use shown in section
10-6-5, table 6-1 of this title, as required or permitted in chapter 6, "Off
Street Parking And Loading", of this title.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Recreational Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Shooting range shall be located not closer than one thousand feet
(1,000') to any similar use, residence, daycare facility, school, park, liquor
store or bar.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Residential Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Nursing homes are subject to the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Each home shall be duly licensed and, prior to admitting
residents, the operator shall demonstrate that the dwelling will comply with
applicable licensing and code standards.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Applicant shall submit a statement of the exact nature of the
home, the qualifications of the agency or agencies that will operate the home,
staffing pattern of the home, and the number and nature of the residents who
will reside in the home.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The home shall, to the extent feasible, conform to the type and
outward appearance of the area in which it is located.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Prior to occupancy, a certificate of zoning compliance shall be
applied for and received.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Group homes are subject to the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Each home shall be duly licensed and, prior to admitting
residents, the operator shall demonstrate that the dwelling will comply with
applicable licensing and code standards.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Such homes shall be located not less than six hundred feet (600')
from any other residential care home.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Applicant shall submit a statement of the exact nature of the
home, the qualifications of the agency or agencies that will operate the home,
staffing pattern of the home, and the number and nature of the residents who
will reside in the home.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â The home shall, to the extent feasible, conform to the type and
outward appearance of the area in which it is located.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Prior to occupancy, a certificate of zoning compliance shall be
applied for and received.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Home occupations are subject to the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â All receipt and delivery of merchandise, goods, or equipment
shall be made by either carrier service or passenger automobile owned by the
resident and no such receipt, delivery or any other transacting of business
within the residence, except emergency service, shall be made outside of normal
business hours.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â No alteration of the principal building shall be made which
changes the residential character of the dwelling.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Except for bed and breakfasts and home daycare facilities, no
home occupation shall occupy more than twenty five percent (25%) of the total
heated floor area in the dwelling unit in which it is located.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â All home occupations shall be conducted entirely within the
principal residential building.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â No outdoor storage shall be permitted.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Mechanical or electrical equipment which is not normally used for
computer, office, domestic or hobby purposes is prohibited.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â No home occupation shall be operated in such a manner as to cause
offensive noise, vibration, smoke, heat, humidity or glare; or in any way cause
a nuisance or safety hazard to the occupants of nearby properties.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â No home occupation may generate a significant increase in
pedestrian or vehicular traffic for the residential district in which it is
located.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â i.Â Â Â Home occupations shall not include animal hospitals, barbershops,
beauty parlors, clinics or hospitals, mortuaries, private clubs, repair shops,
restaurants, or kennels.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â j.Â Â Â Garage sales, retail sale parties and other similar functions
held at a residence shall not constitute a home occupation and shall be
permitted under this title as incidental to a residential use, provided that
said activity is not conducted for more than three (3) calendar days during any
calendar year.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â k.Â Â Â No exterior signage with respect to business use is allowed.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Business Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Dry cleaning and pressing establishments within commercial districts
shall employ facilities for the cleaning and pressing of not more than thirty
(30) pounds' capacity.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Daycare facilities shall not be located closer than one thousand
feet (1,000') to another daycare facility, liquor store, bar, firearms dealer,
or shooting range.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Job printing shops within commercial districts shall not have
presses of more than fourteen inches (14") and twenty inches (20").
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Drive-up or drive-through facilities designed for transactions of
business from customers' vehicles shall obtain a special use permit. In
considering the issuance of a special use permit, in addition to the general
requirements for a special use, the Broadview planning commission and the
village board shall consider the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Traffic flow and congestion which may result from the drive-up
facility, particularly facilities utilizing a public street or alley.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Interference with the operations of other businesses or uses in
proximity of the drive-up facility.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Whether the drive-up facility is constructed entirely upon
private property owned or controlled by the business and is designed to provide
for adequate stacking of vehicles.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Any other matter or information determined to be relevant to the
reasonableness of the proposed use.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Firearms dealers shall be located not closer than one thousand feet
(1,000') from any firearms dealer, daycare facility, school, park, liquor
store, or bar.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Liquor stores shall be located not closer than one thousand feet
(1,000') from any firearms dealer, daycare facility, school, or park.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Shooting ranges shall not be located closer than one thousand feet
(1,000') from any daycare facility, liquor store, bar, firearms dealer, or
other shooting range.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Barbershops shall not be located closer than one thousand feet
(1,000') from any beauty parlor or other barbershop.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Beauty parlors shall not be located closer than one thousand feet
(1,000') from any barbershop or other beauty parlor.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â Tattoo parlors and body piercing establishments are subject to the
following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â All tattoo parlors and body piercing establishments shall be duly
licensed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Written parental consent shall be obtained before any person
under the age of twenty one (21) is tattooed or body pierced.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â No person, while on the premises of any tattoo or body piercing
establishment shall possess, consume, sell, dispense, provide, give, keep or
maintain any alcoholic beverage.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â Adult businesses are subject to the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any adult business to sell, distribute,
or permit beer or alcoholic beverages on the premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â In addition to the regulations set forth in chapter 9 of this
title, all signs for adult businesses, other than directional signage, shall be
flat wall signs. Also, a one square foot sign shall be placed on the door of
each entrance to the adult business stating the hours of operation and adults
only admittance. No merchandise or pictures of the products or entertainment on
the premises shall be displayed in window areas or any other exterior area of
the building or site that can be seen by the public from the outside of the
building.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Only one adult business shall be permitted per block face.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â No operator, employee or agent of an adult business shall
operate, be open for business, or permit any person not an employee of the
adult business other than an adult hotel or motel, to remain on the premises
during the following hours:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â In the case of retail adult businesses, between eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. Central Standard Time or
daylight saving time, whichever is in effect.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â In the case of nonretail adult businesses, between eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) noon Central Standard Time or
daylight saving time, whichever is in effect.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Adult businesses which are classified as special uses, in
addition to satisfying the standards for special uses set forth in section
10-7-4 of this title:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Must be located a minimum of one thousand feet (1,000') from
the property boundaries of any school, daycare center, cemetery, public park,
forest preserve, and public housing, and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Must be located a minimum of seven hundred fifty feet (750')
from the property boundaries of any place of religious worship, and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Must be located a minimum of five hundred fifty feet (550')
from the property boundaries of any residentially zoned property, and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Must not be located on any lot that has a property line
within one thousand feet (1,000') of the property line of where any other adult
business is located, and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Must be located a minimum distance from protected areas and
shall conform to the requirements set forth in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
11-5-1.5.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Outdoor Storage: Outdoor storage, display and sales in commercial,
office/industrial, and manufacturing districts shall be allowed only in the
following situations:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Vehicles and trucks for sale at commercial establishments with a
primary land use of automotive vehicle sales or truck sales.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Raw materials at industrial or manufacturing land uses, provided
that the lot is not adjacent to a commercial or residential district. When the
lot is adjacent to a residential or commercial district, the materials shall be
enclosed within an area that is effectively screened from view by:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â A solid wall or solid fence that is a minimum of five feet (5')
in height and a maximum of six feet (6') in height, or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Dense vegetative material that is at least five feet (5') in
height.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â When, as an accessory use of land, the outdoor storage is a part of
temporary retail operations that are, by their nature, confined to a specific
season, such as the sale of bedding plants or snowblowers, provided that:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The area for outdoor storage, display and sales does not exceed
five hundred (500) square feet; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The height of materials stored does not exceed ten feet (10').
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â At retail establishments where the items, because of their size,
bulk, weight, or volume, cannot be easily moved indoors at the close of
business, provided that:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The height of the materials stored outdoors does not exceed
twelve feet (12'); and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The height of the materials stored outside is enclosed, except
for reasonable openings for vehicles and walkways, within an area that is
effectively screened from view by: 1) a permanent wall or fence, or 2) dense
vegetative material of a height that will provide effective screening; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The size of the enclosed storage area is limited to a maximum of
twenty percent (20%) of the retail establishment's gross floor area.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â When the village board designates certain days and locations for
special promotions or activities, e.g., grand openings.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â As part of a special use permit for an open sales lot. Such a
special use permit should specify restrictions on:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The items for outdoor storage; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The manner in which the items are stored or displayed, e.g.,
screening, enclosed in a temporary tent; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The period, duration, and frequency of the outdoor storage, e.g.,
annually between certain dates.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â New Or Used Automobile Sales:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Intended Purpose: The purpose of these regulations is to assure that
a facility for the purpose of new or used automobile sales is designed to be as
compatible with adjacent uses as possible. The regulations are intended to
address the blighting influence of the concentration of these facilities and
the transient nature of used car sales facilities.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Lot Size: Automobile sales facilities must have a minimum lot size
of twenty thousand (20,000) square feet.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Permanent Structure: Automobile sales facilities must have a
permanent structure on a foundation that meets all building code requirements
to house the office and support services. The structure must be a minimum size
of one thousand (1,000) square feet. It also shall be heated and contain toilet
facilities for the employees. Office trailers, portable buildings, or mobile
homes shall not be used for this purpose.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Repair Facilities: Any accessory automobile repair service facility
for the automobiles for sale and/or those purchased at the facility may be
provided. The accessory facility must comply with all applicable regulations
found elsewhere in this title.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Parking And Permanent Surfaces: All surfaces used for the display of
automobiles or other products must be paved in conformance with chapter 6, "Off
Street Parking And Loading", of this title. In addition to employee parking,
one space per every ten (10) vehicles for sale shall be provided for customer
parking. All automobiles shall be contained within the subject lot. Parking or
displaying vehicles within the public right of way is prohibited.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Signage: All signs shall comply with chapter 9, "Signs", of this
title.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Adult-Use Cannabis:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Purpose And Applicability: It is the intent and purpose of this
section to provide regulations regarding the cultivation, processing and
dispensing of adult-use cannabis occurring within the corporate limits of the
village. Such facilities shall comply with all regulations provided in the
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, P.A. 101-0027, (the "Act"), as it may be
amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated thereunder, and the
regulations provided below. In the event that the Act is amended, the more
restrictive of the state or local regulations shall apply.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower: In those zoning districts in which
an adult-use cannabis craft grower may be located, the proposed facility must
comply with the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Facility may not be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of
the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school,
preschool, primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home or
residential care home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not
be classified as a public or private school for purposes of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Facility may not be located within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used for
residential purposes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Facility may not be located within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') of the property line of a pre-existing adult-use cannabis business
establishment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by the Act.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â For purposes of determining required parking, adult-use cannabis
craft grower shall be classified as "Manufacturing" per section
10-6-5 ("Schedule of Parking and Loading Requirements").
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the village affirming
compliance with this subsection and all other requirements of the village code
and Act.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center: In those zoning districts in
which an adult-use cannabis cultivation center may be located, the proposed
facility must comply with the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Facility may not be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of
the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school,
preschool, primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home or
residential care home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not
be classified as a public or private school for purposes of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Facility may not be located within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned or used for
residential purposes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Facility may not be located within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') of the property line of a pre-existing adult-use cannabis business
establishment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by the Act.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â For purposes of determining required parking, adult-use cannabis
cultivation centers shall be classified as "Manufacturing" per section
10-6-5 ("Schedule of Parking and Loading Requirements").
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the village affirming
compliance with this subsection and all other requirements of the village code
and Act.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization: In those zoning
districts in which an adult-use cannabis dispensing organization may be
located, the proposed facility must comply with the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Only two (2) dispensing organizations shall be allowed within the
village at any given time.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â One dispensing organization may be located on Roosevelt Road
in the C-1 Roosevelt Road Commercial District.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â One dispensing organization may be located in the Broadview
Village Square Shopping Center between 17th Avenue to the west, Canadian
National Railroad to the north, 13 th Avenue to the east, and Cermak Road to
the south.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Facility may not be located within four hundred feet (400') of
the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school,
preschool, primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home or
residential care home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not
be classified as a public or private school for purposes of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Facility may not be located within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') of the property line of a pre-existing adult-use cannabis business
establishment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â At least seventy five percent (75%) of the floor area of any
tenant space occupied by a dispensing organization shall be devoted to the
activities of the dispensing organization as authorized by the Act, and no
dispensing organization shall also sell food for consumption on the premises in
the same tenant space.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by the Act.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Facility may be issued a permit to host on-site consumption of
cannabis if located in a freestanding structure occupied solely by the
dispensing organization and smoke from the facility does not migrate into an
enclosed area where smoking is prohibited. The security plan for the facility
required by subsection G.8., "Additional Requirements" herein shall also
reflect adequate provisions to respond to disruptive conduct and over-
consumption. The on-site consumption permit shall be reviewed annually and may
be suspended or revoked following notice and hearing as provided in title 3,
section
3-1-11 of the village code.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities
shall be classified as "General retail" per section
10-6-5 ("Schedule of Parking and Loading Requirements") of the village,
provided, however, that the village may require that additional parking be
provided as a result of the analysis completed through subsection G.2. herein.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â i.Â Â Â No operator, employee or agent of an adult-use cannabis
dispensing organization shall operate, be open for business, or permit any
person not an employee of the adult-use cannabis dispensing organization to
remain on the premises between ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and nine o'clock (9:00)
A.M. Central Standard Time or daylight saving time, whichever is in effect.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â j.Â Â Â Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the village affirming
compliance with this subsection and all other requirements of the village code
and Act.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â k.Â Â Â Adult-use cannabis dispensing organizations shall be a special
use, requiring approval of a special use in the respective districts in which
they are requested, and shall be processed in accordance with section
10-7-4 (Special Uses) of this title and this subsection G.4. In determining
compliance with Section
10-7-4, the following components of the adult-use cannabis dispensing
organizations shall be evaluated based on the entirety of the circumstances
affecting the particular property in the context of the existing and intended
future use of the properties:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Impact of the proposed facility on existing or planned uses
located within the vicinity of the subject property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Proposed structure in which the facility will be located,
including co-tenancy (if in a multi-tenant building), total square footage,
security installations/security plan and building code compliance.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Hours of operation and anticipated number of customers/
employees.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Anticipated parking demand based on chapter 6 of this title
and available private parking supply.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Anticipated traffic generation in the context of adjacent
roadway capacity and access to such roadways.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â Site design, including access points and internal site
circulation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (7)Â Â Â Proposed signage plan.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (8)Â Â Â Compliance with all requirements provided in this subsection
G as applicable.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (9)Â Â Â Other criteria determined to be necessary to assess
compliance with section
10-7-4 (Special Uses) of this title.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization: In those zoning districts
in which an adult-use cannabis infuser organization may be located, the
proposed facility must comply with the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Facility may not be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of
the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school,
preschool, primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home or
residential care home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not
be classified as a public or private school for purposes of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within two
hundred fifty feet (250') feet of the property line of a pre-existing property
zoned or used for residential purposes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Facility may not be located within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') of the property line of a pre-existing adult-use cannabis business
establishment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â At least seventy five percent (75%) of the floor area of any
tenant space occupied by an infusing organization shall be devoted to the
activities of the infusing organization as authorized by the Act. Facility may
not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by
the Act.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities
shall be classified as "Manufacturing" per section
10-6-5 ("Schedule of Parking and Loading Requirements").
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the village affirming
compliance with this subsection and all other requirements of the village code
and Act.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Adult-Use Cannabis Processing Organization: In those zoning
districts in which an adult-use cannabis processing organization may be
located, the proposed facility must comply with the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Facility may not be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of
the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school,
preschool, primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home or
residential care home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not
be classified as a public or private school for purposes of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within two
hundred fifty feet (250') of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned
or used for residential purposes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Facility may not be located within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') of the property line of a pre-existing adult-use cannabis business
establishment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â At least seventy five percent (75%) of the floor area of any
tenant space occupied by a processing organization shall be devoted to the
activities of the processing organization as authorized by the Act. Facility
may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis other than as authorized
by the Act.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities
shall be classified as "Manufacturing" per section
10-6-5 ("Schedule of Parking and Loading Requirements").
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the village affirming
compliance with this subsection and all other requirements of the village code
and Act.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Adult-Use Cannabis Transporting Organization: In those zoning
districts in which an adult-use transporting organization may be located, the
proposed facility must comply with the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Facility may not be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of
the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery school,
preschool, primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home or
residential care home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall not
be classified as a public or private school for purposes of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within two
hundred fifty feet (250') of the property line of a pre-existing property zoned
or used for residential purposes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Facility may not be located within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') of the property line of a pre-existing adult-use cannabis business
establishment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â The transporting organization shall be the sole use of the tenant
space in which it is located. Facility may not conduct any sales or
distribution of cannabis other than as authorized by the Act.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â For purposes of determining required parking, said facilities
shall be classified as "Wholesale and storage" per section
10-6-5 ("Schedule of Parking and Loading Requirements").
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Petitioner shall file an affidavit with the village affirming
compliance with this subsection and all other requirements of the village code
and Act.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Additional Requirements: The village may require additional building
enhancements for applicants seeking to operate an adult-use cannabis business
establishment within the village. Petitioner shall install the building
enhancements, such as security cameras, lighting or other improvements, as
precondition to receiving a certificate of occupancy, permit, business license,
or special use, as applicable, to ensure the safety of employees and customers
of the adult-use cannabis business establishments, as well as its surrounding
environs. Said improvements shall be determined based on the specific
characteristics of the floor plan for an adult-use cannabis business
establishment and the site on which it is located, consistent with the
requirements of the Act.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Electric Vehicle Charging Station, Primary:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â All electric vehicle charging station driveways must be located and
designed to ensure that thev will not adversely affect the safety and
efficiency of traffic circulation on adjoining streets. Electric vehicle
charging stations are limited to two (2) curb cuts, unless a variance is sought
and approved in accordance with the requirements of the Zoning Code.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any electric vehicle charging station site may offer convenience
items for sale.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â All sides of a building that are part of an electric vehicle
charging station building must express consistent architectural detail and
character. All site walls, screen walls, and charging station canopies and
other outdoor covered areas must be architecturally integrated with the
building by using similar material, color, and detailing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The volume of anv audio component must be maintained at a level so
as not to be audible at adjoining properties. The volume of any audio component
must comply with all Village noise regulations. Audio components are permitted
only at a charging station. Audio components are prohibited as part of anv
other structure, including canopies and buildings.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â All electric vehicle charging stations must complv with the
Americans with Disabilities Act.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â All applicable design standards, parking regulations and landscaping
regulations regulated within this Zoning Code, shall follow those established
for gas stations.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Unless the charging station is a private residential charging
station, the following information shall be posted at all electric vehicle
charging stations:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Voltage and amperage levels;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Hours of operation if time limits or tow away provisions are to
be enforced by the property owner;;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Usage fees;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Safety information; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Contact information for reporting when equipment is not
operational;
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Electric Vehicle Charging Station (Accessory Use):
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Electric vehicle charging stations are permitted as an accessory use
within any parking lot or parking structure in all zoning districts.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Electric vehicle charging station equipment may not block the public
right-of-way.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Each public electric vehicle charging station space must be posted
with a sign indicating the space is only for electric vehicle charging
purposes. Days and hours of operation must be included if time limits or tow
away provisions are to be enforced by the owner. Information identifying
voltage and amperage levels or safety information must be posted.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Electric vehicle charging station equipment must be maintained in
good condition and all equipment must be functional. Electric vehicle charging
stations no longer in use must be immediately removed. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-
2001; amd. Ord. 2004-28, 12-6-2004; Ord. 2005-19, 8-1-2005; Ord. 2006-10, 5-1-
2006; Ord. 2008-42, 11-17-2008; Ord. 12-34, 5-21-2012; Ord. 2019-31, 12-2-2019;
Ord. 2025-6, 4-21-2025)
10-4-7: SCOPE OF REQUIREMENTS:
Except as may be provided elsewhere in this title, the provisions of this
chapter shall establish the minimum and maximum requirements of area, bulk,
density, and setbacks for every zoning district established by this title. No
building or structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, or
structurally altered in violation of the requirements of this chapter. (Ord.
2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
CHAPTER 5
NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES
SECTION:
10-5-1: Purpose And Scope
10-5-2: Continuance Of Nonconforming Use
10-5-3: Expansion Of Nonconforming Use
10-5-4: Change Of Nonconforming Use
10-5-5: Discontinuance Or Abandonment Of Nonconforming Use
10-5-6: Repairs And Alterations Of Nonconforming Structures
10-5-7: Additions And Expansions Of Nonconforming Structures
10-5-8: Restoration Of A Damaged Nonconforming Structure
10-5-9: Relocation Of A Nonconforming Structure
10-5-10: Acquisition Of Nonconforming Structures
10-5-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â This title establishes separate districts, each of which is an
appropriate area for the location of the uses, which are permitted in that
district. The purpose of this section is to provide for the regulation of
nonconforming buildings, structures and uses, and to specify those
circumstances and conditions under which those nonconforming buildings,
structures and uses shall be permitted to continue.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The provisions of this section are designed to curtail substantial
investment in nonconformities and to bring about their eventual improvement or
elimination in order to preserve the integrity of this title and enhance the
character of the village. Any nonconforming use, structure, or lot which
lawfully existed as of the effective date hereof and any use, structure, or lot
which has become nonconforming as a result of the adoption of this title or any
subsequent reclassification of zoning districts or other amendment to this
title, may be continued or maintained only in accordance with the terms of this
chapter.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â This chapter is intended to regulate and limit the development and
continued existence of uses, structures, and lots established prior to the
effective date hereof, which do not conform to the requirements herein.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â For the purpose of this section, a building or structure lawfully
constructed or established on the effective date hereof, shall be deemed to
include any building or structure for which a building permit has been lawfully
issued prior to such date, and on which construction is begun within the
required period of time as set forth in this title. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-5-2: CONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING USE:
Any nonconforming building, structure or use which existed lawfully at the time
of adoption of this title and which remains nonconforming upon the adoption of
this title, or of any subsequent amendments thereto, is subject to the
regulations which follow. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-5-3: EXPANSION OF NONCONFORMING USE:
The nonconforming use of a part of a building or structure may be expanded
within the building or structure in which the use is presently located, but no
changes or structural alterations shall be made unless such changes or
structural alterations, and the use thereof, conforms to all the regulations of
the district in which the building or structure is located. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-
2-2001)
10-5-4: CHANGE OF NONCONFORMING USE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â A nonconforming use shall not be changed to another nonconforming use,
except where an application for such a change has been submitted to and
approved by the zoning administrator.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Any part of a structure or land occupied by a nonconforming use, which
is changed to or replaced by a use conforming to the provisions of this title
shall not thereafter be used or occupied by a nonconforming use. (Ord. 2001-
08A, 4-2-2001)
10-5-5: DISCONTINUANCE OR ABANDONMENT OF NONCONFORMING USE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Whenever any part of a structure or land occupied by a nonconforming
use is changed to or replaced by a use conforming to the provisions of this
title, such premises shall not thereafter be used or occupied by any
nonconforming use, even though the structure may have been originally designed
and constructed for the prior nonconforming use.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Whenever a nonconforming use of a structure, or part thereof, has been
discontinued for a period of one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days, or
whenever there is evident a clear intent on the part of the owner to abandon a
nonconforming use, such use shall not after being discontinued be
reestablished, and the use of the premises thereafter shall conform with the
use regulations of the zoning district in which it is located. (Ord. 2001-08A,
4-2-2001)
10-5-6: REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS OF NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Repairs may be made to a nonconforming structure, provided that no
structural alterations shall be made in or to a structure, all or substantially
all of which is designed or intended for a use not permitted in the district in
which it is located. However, structural alterations may be made if they are
required by law or are necessary to make the structure and use thereof conform
to the regulations of the district in which it is located. For the purpose of
this section, ordinary repairs, as determined by the building commissioner,
shall include the replacement of storage tanks where the safety of operation of
the installation requires such replacement.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No structural alterations shall be made in a building or other
structure containing a nonconforming use, except in the following situations:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â When the alteration will result in eliminating the nonconforming
use.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A structure containing a residential nonconforming use may be
altered or enlarged, provided that the enlargement or alteration itself
conforms to the requirements of the zoning district, and provided no structural
alteration shall be made which would increase the number of dwelling units.
(Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-5-7: ADDITIONS AND EXPANSIONS OF NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â A building and/or structure which is nonconforming as to lot size
requirements or building bulk regulations shall not be added to, expanded, or
enlarged unless such addition, expansion, or enlargement conforms to all the
regulations of the district in which it is located.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No structure partially occupied by a nonconforming use shall be altered
in such a way as to permit the enlargement or expansion of the space occupied
by such nonconforming use.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â A structure which is nonconforming with respect to yards, lot coverage,
or any other element of bulk regulated herein shall not be altered or expanded
in any manner which would increase the degree or extent of its nonconformity
with respect to the bulk regulations of the district in which it is located.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â A nonconforming building or structure which is nonconforming only as to
bulk shall be added to or enlarged in any manner unless such additions and
enlargements thereto are made to conform to all regulations of the district in
which it is located. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-5-8: RESTORATION OF A DAMAGED NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â A structure which is nonconforming as to lot size requirements or
building bulk regulations, and which is destroyed or damaged by fire or other
casualty or act of God to the extent that the cost of restoration shall exceed
fifty percent (50%) of the value based on the Cook County assessor's records
for the entire structure shall not be restored unless such structure and use
conforms to the provisions of the zoning district in which it is located.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â If the cost of restoration of such damaged structure does not exceed
fifty percent (50%) of the value based on the Cook County assessor's records
for the entire structure no repairs or reconstruction shall be made unless such
restoration is commenced within six (6) months from the date of the fire or
other casualty or act of God, and is diligently pursued until completion. The
structure may be restored to its original condition and the occupancy or use of
such structure may be continued which existed at the time of such partial
destruction. Failure to initiate or conclude restoration within these limits
shall constitute abandonment as defined in section
10-5-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-5-9: RELOCATION OF A NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE:
No building or structure shall be moved in whole, or in part, to any other
location on the same or any other lot unless every portion of such building or
structure which is moved, and the use thereof, is made to conform to all of the
regulations of the district in which it is to be located. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-
2001)
10-5-10: ACQUISITION OF NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The village may at any time, and from time to time, by ordinance duly
enacted and in accordance with the authority vested in it by state law 1 :
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Acquire by purchase, condemnation or otherwise, any buildings or
structures which do not conform to the standards fixed by the village pursuant
to state law, and all land which is necessary or appropriate for the
rehabilitation or redevelopment of any area blighted by substandard buildings
or structures;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Remove or demolish all such nonconforming buildings or structures so
acquired;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Hold and use any remaining property for public purposes;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Sell, lease or exchange such property as is not required for public
purposes, subject to the provisions of this title or of any amendment hereto.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No such acquisition by condemnation shall be made until such time as
the planning commission, at the request of the board of trustees or upon its
own initiative, shall have made a study of the area within which such
nonconforming building or structure is located, and shall have filed a written
report on such study with the board of trustees. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-13-17.
CHAPTER 6
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
10-6-1: Purpose
10-6-2: General Provisions For Parking And Loading
10-6-3: Parking Regulations
10-6-4: Location Of Accessory Off Street Parking Facilities
10-6-5: Schedule Of Parking And Loading Requirements
10-6-6: Americans With Disabilities Act Requirements
10-6-7: Off Street Loading Requirements
10-6-8: Electric Vehicle Charging Parking Spaces
10-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to alleviate or prevent the congestion of the
public streets, and so promote the safety and welfare of the public by
establishing minimum requirements for the off street parking and loading and
unloading of motor vehicles in accordance with the use to which property is
put. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-6-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR PARKING AND LOADING:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Scope Of Regulations: The off street parking and loading provisions of
this chapter shall apply as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â For all buildings and structures erected and all uses of land
established after the effective date hereof, accessory parking and loading
facilities shall be provided as required by the regulations of this section.
However, where a building permit has been issued prior to the effective date
hereof, and provided that construction is begun within one year of such
effective date, and diligently prosecuted to completion, only the less
restrictive parking and loading standards as required prior to the effective
date shall be provided.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â When the intensity of use of any building, structure or premises
shall be increased through addition of dwelling units, gross floor area,
seating capacity or other unit of measurement specified herein for required
parking or loading facilities, parking and loading facilities as required
herein shall be provided for such increase in intensity of use.
However, no building or structure lawfully erected, or use lawfully established
prior to the effective date hereof, shall be required to provide such
additional parking or loading facilities unless and until the increase in
density or intensity of use exceeds fifteen percent (15%) in units of
measurement. In the event that this situation occurs, parking or loading
facilities as required herein shall be provided for the total increase.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Whenever the existing use of a building or structure is changed to a
new use, parking or loading facilities shall be provided as required for such
new use.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Existing Parking And Loading Facilities: Accessory off street parking
or loading facilities which are located on the same lot as the building or use
served, and which were in existence on the effective date hereof or were
provided voluntarily after such effective date, shall not hereafter be reduced
below, or if already less than, shall not further be reduced below the
requirements of this title for a similar new building or use. (Ord. 2001-08A,
4-2-2001)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Roosevelt Road Corridor Parking Requirements: For the purpose of
allowing the existing mix and density of uses within the Roosevelt Road
business district, additional off street parking is not required at locations
where limited parking or no parking is currently provided. New uses which are
similar to those in operation at the time that this title is adopted are not
required to add additional parking. However, where new construction or a change
in existing use warrants additional parking, one-half (1/2) of the standard
parking requirements for commercial uses detailed in this section, excluding
restaurants, shall be provided. Due to the nature of restaurants and the
additional parking that they require, no reduction in required parking shall be
granted without a variation, as described in this title. (Ord. 2006-10, 5-1-
2006)
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Permissive Parking And Loading Facilities: Nothing in this chapter
shall be deemed to prevent the voluntary establishment of off street parking or
loading facilities to serve any existing use of land or buildings provided that
all regulations herein governing the location, design, improvement and
operation of such facilities are adhered to.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Damage Or Destruction: For any conforming or legally nonconforming
building or use which is in existence on the effective date hereof, which
subsequent thereto is damaged or destroyed by fire, collapse, explosion or
other cause, and which is reconstructed, reestablished or repaired, off street
parking or loading facilities equivalent to any maintained at the time of such
damage or destruction shall be restored or continued in operation. However, in
no case shall it be necessary to provide parking or loading facilities in
excess of those previously provided.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Control Of Off Site Parking Facilities: When required parking
facilities are provided on land other than the zoning lot on which the building
or use served by such facilities is located, they shall be and remain in the
same possession or ownership as the zoning lot occupied by the building or use
to which the parking facilities are accessory. No such off site parking
facilities shall be authorized and no occupancy permit shall be issued where
the plans call for parking facilities to be located on a lot other than on the
same zoning lot as the principal use until and unless the planning and zoning
board has reviewed the plans, heard the applicant and made findings that the
zoning lot and the remote site are in common ownership and that the off site
parking facilities will be maintained at all times during the life of the
proposed use or building.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Submission Of Plot Plan: Any application for a building permit, or for
a certificate of occupancy where no building permit is required, shall include
therewith a site plan, drawn to scale and fully dimensioned, showing any
parking or loading facilities to be provided in compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Landscape Requirements: Landscaping for off street parking areas shall
be provided in accordance with subsection 10-8-4I, "Landscaping", of this
title. (Ord. 2006-15, 6-5-2006)
10-6-3: PARKING REGULATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Use Of Parking Facilities: Off street parking facilities accessory to
residential uses located in any residential district shall be used solely for
the parking of passenger automobiles or company vehicles of comparable size,
owned or used by occupants of the dwelling structures to which such parking
facilities are accessory or by guests of said occupants. Under no circumstances
shall required parking facilities accessory to residential structures be used
for the parking of automobiles belonging to the employees, owners, tenants,
visitors or customers of business or manufacturing establishments.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Joint Parking Facilities: Off street parking facilities for properties
with separate buildings or uses, or for buildings with mixed uses, may be
provided collectively on the zoning lot, provided that the total number of
spaces so located together shall not be less than the sum of the separate
requirements for each use.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Shared Parking Facilities: Cumulative parking requirements for mixed
use occupancies may be reduced where it can be determined that the peak
requirement of the several occupancies occurs at different times (either daily
or seasonally). The shared parking report published by the urban land institute
may be used as a guideline in the estimation of parking demand for mixed use
buildings and sites.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Computation: When determination of the number of off street parking
spaces required by this chapter results in a requirement of a fractional space,
any fraction of one-half (1/2) or less may be disregarded while a fraction in
excess of one-half (1/2) shall be counted as one parking space.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Size: A required off street parking space shall be at least nine feet
(9') in width and at least nineteen feet (19') in length, exclusive of access
drives or aisles, ramps, columns, or office or work areas. The nineteen foot
(19') length may include up to two feet (2') of abutting space in a vegetative
buffer of landscaped area over which a parked vehicle may extend, provided that
no parked vehicle may project over a sidewalk or other pedestrian walkway such
that the sidewalk is reduced to less than five feet (5') in width. Each
required off street parking space shall have a vertical clearance of at least
seven feet (7').
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Access:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Each required off street parking space shall open directly upon an
aisle or driveway of at least the width below, based upon the angle of the
parking stalls provided and whether the aisle serves one or two (2) rows of
parking spaces:
Â 
Parking Angle Serving One Row Serving Two Rows
Parallel      12 feet         12 feet
30 degrees    12 feet         12 feet
45 degrees    13 feet         14 feet
60 degrees    18 feet         19 feet
90 degrees    20 feet         22 feet
Â 
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â All off-street parking facilities shall be designed with appropriate
means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner which will least
interfere with traffic movements. No driveway across public property nor curb
cut shall exceed a width of thirty feet (30'). Driveways shall be located at
least one foot (1') from the property line.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Shared driveways shall not be permitted in residential districts.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Off-street parking spaces may be located in any yard except required
front yards, but shall not be closer than one foot (1') to the lot line. All
such parking spaces are subject to the regulations of this chapter.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Design And Maintenance:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Open And Enclosed Parking Spaces: Accessory parking spaces located
on the same lot as occupied by the use served may be open to the sky or
enclosed in a building. Accessory parking spaces located in a residential
district elsewhere than on the same lot occupied by the use served shall be
open to the sky except when otherwise allowed as a special use.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Surfacing: All open off-street parking areas and driveways shall be
improved with a compacted gravel base, not less than four inches (9") thick,
surfaced with asphalt, not less than three inches (3") thick, concrete or some
comparable all-weather dustless material. Construction of such surfacing shall
be completed within one year of the issuance of a building permit.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Drainage: The surface drainage from every off-street parking area
shall be in such a manner as not to overflow onto adjoining property. Off-
street parking areas covering less than one thousand five hundred (1,500)
square feet may have their surface drainage discharge directly into public
rights of way. Off-street parking areas covering less than two thousand (2,000)
square feet may have their surface drainage discharge directly into public
alleys.
Off-street parking areas that exceed the above limitations shall have their
surface drainage contained within their paved areas and removed by means of
drainage structures and storm sewers. Where storm sewers must connect to the
existing village sewer system, the connection shall be preceded by a catch
basin structure having a half-trap device on its outlet pipe and a flow
restrictor on its inlet pipe. The size of the flow restrictor shall be based
upon the metropolitan water reclamation district of greater Chicago (MWRDGC)
storm sewer detention requirements.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Lighting: Any lighting used to illuminate off-street parking areas
shall be directed away from residential properties in such a way as not to
create a nuisance. Lighting should have a total cutoff of light at an angle
less than ninety degrees (90Â°) and is located so that a light source is
completely shielded from the direct view of an observer five feet (5') above
the ground at the point where the cutoff angle intersects the ground.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Signs: Incidental signs are permitted in parking areas in accordance
with the regulations of chapter 9 of this title.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Repair And Service: No motor vehicle repair work of any kind shall
be permitted in conjunction with accessory off-street parking facilities in a
residence district, except for minor repairs of the occupant's personal
vehicle, provided that the vehicle is not rendered immobile for more than two
(2) days.
The sale of gasoline and motor oil in conjunction with accessory off-street
parking facilities is not permitted in any residence district. (Ord. 2001-08A,
4-2-2001)
10-6-4: LOCATION OF ACCESSORY OFF-STREET PARKING FACILITIES:
The location of off-street parking spaces in relation to the use served shall
be as prescribed hereinafter. All distances specified shall be walking
distances between such parking spaces and a main entrance to the use served.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â For Uses In A Residence District: Parking spaces accessory to dwellings
shall be located on the same zoning lot as the principal use. Spaces accessory
to uses other than dwellings may be located on a lot adjacent to, or directly
across a street or alley from, the lot occupied by the principal use, but in no
case at a distance in excess of three hundred feet (300') from such use.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â For Uses In Business And Manufacturing Districts: All required parking
spaces shall be within one thousand feet (1,000') of the principal use.
However, no parking spaces accessory to a use in a business or manufacturing
district shall be located in a residence district, except that municipal
parking lots may be allowed within two hundred feet (200') of and adjacent to
any business or industrial district by special use permit in accordance with
chapter 5 of this title. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-6-5: SCHEDULE OF PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Applicability: Accessory off-street parking spaces shall be provided
for the following uses as required hereinafter. For uses not listed herein, the
parking requirements shall be determined by the zoning administrator. Parking
spaces required on an employee basis shall be based on the maximum number of
employees on duty or residing, or both, on the premises at any one time. For
the uses listed in table 6-1 of this section, off-street loading berths shall
be provided on the basis of gross floor area of buildings or portions thereof
devoted to such uses in the amounts shown:
Â Â Â TABLE 6-1
Â Â Â UÂ Â Â Minimum Number Of    Â Â Â Minimum Required
       Â Â Â Parking Spaces RequirÂ Â Â Loading Spaces
Â Â Â Use                 Â Â Â Minimum Number Of    Â Â Â Minimum Required
                          Â Â Â Parking Spaces RequirÂ Â Â Loading Spaces
Residential And Lodging Uses
                          1 parking space per
Child daycare center      employee, plus 1/10 of 1   No loading space required
                          space per person of
                          licensed capacity
Dwelling units (single-   2 parking spaces per       No loading spaces required
family)                   dwelling unit
Dwelling units (multi-    Â                          Â 
family)
Studio                    11/4 parking spaces per    No loading spaces required
                          dwelling unit
1 bedroom                 11/2 parking spaces per    No loading spaces required
                          dwelling unit
2 bedroom                 2 parking spaces per       No loading spaces required
                          dwelling unit
                          1 parking space per guest
                          room plus 1 space per
Hotel/motel/bed and       every 2 employees plus any As required for restaurant
breakfast                 spaces required for        or lounge
                          restaurant, lounge,
                          banquet areas, and meeting
                          rooms
                          1 parking space for every
                          5 beds, plus 1 space for
Nursing homes             every self-care unit, and  1 loading space required
                          1 space for every 2
                          employees on peak shift
Commercial Uses
Automobile service        1 parking space per 2      No loading space is
stations                  employees                  required
                          4 parking spaces per each
                          lane, plus additional
Bowling alleys            parking as required for    Same as general retail
                          any affiliated restaurant
                          or bar, or banquet
                          facility
                          Parking spaces equal to 10 As required for any
Clubs, lodges             percent of the capacity in affiliated restaurant,
                          persons                    lounge
Coin-operated laundries   1 parking space per 4      No loading space is
                          machines                   required
Funeral parlors,          12 parking spaces, plus 1  1 loading space is
undertaking               space for each funeral     required
establishments            vehicle
                                                     No loading spaces required
                                                     for the first 10,000 sf,
General retail            31/3 parking spaces per    then 1 space per 30,000 sf
                          1,000 sf of GFA            up to 70,000 sf, plus 1
                                                     space per 80,000 sf
                                                     thereafter
                          21/2 parking spaces per    None for first 30,000 sf,
Personal service uses     1,000 sf of GFA            then 1 per 100,000 sf
                                                     thereafter
Restaurants with drive-   1 parking space per 3
through or carryout       seats, plus 3 per cashier  1 loading space per 40,000
facilities                station. 8 stacking spaces sf of GFA
                          per drive-through window
Restaurants without
drive- through            11 parking spaces per      1 loading space per 40,000
facilities, bars and      1,000 sf of GFA            sf of GFA
taverns
Theaters                  1 parking space per 4      1 loading space per
                          seats                      100,000 sf of GFA
Office Uses
                          4 parking spaces per 1,000 None for the first 10,000
Financial institutions    sf, plus 5 stacking spaces sf, then 1 per 50,000 sf
                          for each drive-through     up to 110,000 sf plus 1
                          teller position            per 100,000 sf thereafter
                          4 parking spaces per 1,000 None for the first 30,000
General offices           sf of GFA                  sf, then 1 per 100,000
                                                     thereafter
Medical/dental offices    3 parking spaces for each
and clinics               doctor or dentist, plus 1  Same as general office
                          parking space per employee
Manufacturing And Wholesale Uses
                          2/3 of 1 parking space per 1 loading space per 25,000
                          employee on peak shift,    sf up to 50,000 sf, plus 1
Manufacturing             plus 1 space per 500 sf of for the next 50,000 sf
                          floor area open to public  then 1 per 100,000 sf
                                                     thereafter
                          2/3 of 1 parking space per 1 for the first 50,000 sf
Wholesale and storage     employee on peak shift,    of GFA plus 1 per 100,000
                          plus 1 space per 500 sf of sf thereafter
                          floor area open to public
Civic And Institutional Uses
                          1/4 of 1 parking space per
                          person in permitted        1 loading space per
Churches                  capacity, plus adequate    100,000 sf of GFA
                          space for all vehicles
                          associated with the church
Community centers         4 parking spaces per 1,000 No loading space is
                          sf of GFA                  required
Public services or public 1 parking space per 2      No loading space is
utilities                 employees                  required
                          1 parking space per
Schools (nursery,         classroom, plus 1/5 of 1   1 loading space per
elementary, high)         space per student over     100,000 sf of GFA
                          driving age
Â 
(Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-6-6: AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT REQUIREMENTS:
A. Number Of Spaces: In any self-park facility, a certain number of spaces must
be set aside for wheelchair access as summarized in the following table:
Total Spaces   Minimum Accessible Spaces
1 to 25        1
26 to 50       2
51 to 75       3
76 to 100      4
101 to 150     5
151 to 200     6
201 to 300     7
301 to 400     8
401 to 500     9
501 to 1,000   2 percent of total
1,001 and over 20 plus 1 per 100 over 1,000 spaces
Â 
B. Exceptions:
1. Outpatient units at medical care facilities: ten percent (10%) of total
spaces for that facility.
2. Medical care facilities specifically for treatment of the mobility impaired:
twenty percent (20%) of the total spaces for that facility.
C. Accessible Parking Space Dimensions:
1. Standard Accessible Spaces: Accessible spaces shall consist of an eight foot
(8') wide parking stall adjacent to an eight foot (8') wide access aisle.
2. Vertical Clearance: Along at least one aisle to and from each accessible
space, a minimum clearance of eight feet two inches (8'2") (98 inches) is
required.
D. Location Of Accessible Spaces:
1. Accessible parking spaces serving a particular building shall be located on
the shortest accessible route of travel to an accessible entrance.
2. Accessible parking spaces may be provided on one level of a multi-level
parking structure.
E. Accessible Route:
1. At least one accessible route with a continuous minimum clearance of thirty
six inches (36") must be provided from accessible parking spaces to the nearest
accessible pedestrian entrance.
2. If an accessible route has less than sixty inches (60") clear width then
passing spaces at least sixty inches by sixty inches (60" x 60") must be
located at reasonable intervals not to exceed every two hundred feet (200').
3. The floor slope along an accessible route shall not exceed a ratio of one to
twelve (1:12) with a maximum rise of thirty inches (30") for any run.
4. A level landing shall be provided at the bottom of each ramp and top of each
ramp run. The width of the landing shall be at least as wide as the ramp run
and at least sixty inches (60") long. At changes in direction a sixty inch by
sixty inch (60" x 60") landing shall be provided.
5. The cross slope of ramps shall not exceed a ratio of one to fifty (1:50).
6. The floor slope at loading zones shall not exceed a ratio of one to fifty
(1:50).
7. It is preferable to provide the accessible route at the front of the stalls.
Also, the accessible route shall avoid crossing lanes of vehicular travel. When
crossing vehicular travel lanes is necessary, the route of travel shall be
designated and marked by a crosswalk.
F. Relation To State Or Federal Standards: Where any conflicts with state or
federal legislation may exist, the state and federal standards shall control.
(Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-6-7: OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS:
A. Location: All required loading berths shall be located on the same zoning
lot as the principal use. No loading berth for vehicles over two (2) tons'
capacity shall be closer than fifty feet (50') to any property in a residence
district unless completely enclosed by building walls, or a uniformly painted
solid fence or wall, or any combination thereof, not less than six feet (6') in
height. No permitted or required loading berth shall be located in any required
front or side yard. No permitted or required loading berth shall be located
within twenty five feet (25') of the nearest point of intersection of any two
(2) streets.
B. Size: A required loading berth shall be at least ten feet (10') in width by
at least sixty feet (60') in length, exclusive of aisles and maneuvering space,
and shall have a vertical clearance of at least fourteen feet (14').
C. Access: Each required off-street loading berth shall be designed with
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner which
will least interfere with traffic movements.
D. Surfacing: All open off-street loading berths shall be improved with a
compacted macadam base, not less than seven inches (7") thick, surfaced with
not less than two inches (2") of asphalt, concrete or some comparable all-
weather dustless material.
E. Repair And Service: No motor vehicle repair work or service of any kind
shall be permitted in conjunction with loading facilities provided in any
residence or business districts.
1. Space allocated to any off-street loading berth shall not, while so
allocated, be used to satisfy the space requirements for any off-street parking
facilities or portions thereof.
2. For uses other than prescribed for in this section, loading berths adequate
in number and size to serve such uses, as determined by the zoning
administrator, shall be provided.
3. Uses for which off-street loading facilities are required herein but which
are located in buildings of less floor area than the minimum prescribed for
such required facilities shall provide adequate receiving facilities off any
adjacent alley, service drive, or open space on the same lot which is
accessible by motor vehicle. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-6-8: ELECTRIC VEHICLE CHARGING PARKING SPACES:
Requirements for electric vehicle charging parking spaces shall be set forth
and governed by the building code and electrical codes approved by the Village
of Broadview, which may be amended from time to time. In addition, said
requirements shall be subject to the Electric Vehicle Charging Act, 765 ILCS
1085/1 et seq., as amended.
Any required electric vehicle parking space(s) shall be included in the total
number of required parking spaces as provided in Table 10-6-5: Schedule of
Parking and Loading Requirements. (Ord. 2025-6, 4-21-2025)
CHAPTER 7
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-7-1: Enforcement
10-7-2: Certificates Of Occupancy
10-7-3: Variances
10-7-3-1: Conditional Uses
10-7-4: Special Uses
10-7-5: Appeals
10-7-6: Amendments
10-7-7: Fees
10-7-8: Penalty (Rep. by Ord. 2004-29, 12-6-2004)
10-7-9: Development Review Committee
10-7-10: Review Of Zoning Ordinance
10-7-11: Procedure Diagrams
10-7-1: ENFORCEMENT:
The zoning administrator, or other officials that have been or shall be duly
appointed by the village board of trustees, shall enforce this title, and in
addition thereto, and in furtherance of their authority shall:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Issue all certificates of occupancy and make and maintain records
thereof.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Conduct inspections of buildings, structures and uses of land to
determine compliance with the terms of this title.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Maintain permanent and current records of this title, including, but
not limited to, all maps, amendments, special uses, variations, appeals and
applications therefor.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Receive, file and forward to the zoning administrator a copy of all
applications for special uses or petitions for amendments to this title.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Receive, file and forward to the planning and zoning board 1  copies of
all applications for appeals, variations and other matters on which the
planning and zoning board is required to review under this title.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Provide such clerical and technical assistance as may be required by
the plan commission/planning and zoning board in the exercise of its duties.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Prepare, and coordinate with a local newspaper to publish, notice of
public hearings scheduled for the plan commission/planning and zoning board.
(Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See title 2, chapter 6 of this code.
10-7-2: CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Certificates Required:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No land shall be occupied or used and no building or structure
hereafter erected or altered shall be occupied or used in whole or in part for
any purpose whatsoever until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued
by the building commissioner and, except for dwellings, posted on the premises
stating that the intended use of land and building complies with all the
building and zoning ordinances of the village and with the provisions of these
regulations.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A new certificate of occupancy is required if the occupancy,
ownership or use of any building, structure or land is changed, or if
alterations are made to any building, structure or land or part thereof. A new
certificate voids any certificate of prior date. The requirement of a new
certificate of occupancy for all transfers of ownership of real estate in the
village shall be reflected on all real estate title insurance reports conducted
precedent to the transfer of ownership to give public notice of said mandatory
certification.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Application And Issuance Of Certificate:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Change Of Occupancy, Ownership Or Use: Written application shall be
made for a certificate of occupancy by the owner or duly authorized agent for
the owner of any building, structure or land, prior to any change of occupancy,
ownership or use. Written application shall also be made for a certificate of
occupancy by the new occupant of a commercial or industrial building or
structure prior to occupancy. Said certificate shall be issued within ten (10)
days after written application therefor; provided, the building or structure
shall be entitled thereto, or the building commissioner shall state in writing
the reasons for his refusal to issue said certificate.
If a business license is required, the certificate of occupancy shall be issued
in conjunction with the business license.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â New Buildings And Alterations: Written application shall be made for
a certificate of occupancy coincidental to the application for a building
permit. A certificate of occupancy shall be issued within ten (10) days after
the erection or alteration of such building has been completed provided, the
building or alteration shall be entitled thereto, or the building commissioner
shall state in writing the reasons for his refusal to issue said certificate.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Inspections: Before any certificate of occupancy shall be issued,
the building commissioner shall order a thorough inspection by all applicable
inspectors and inspection branches of the building department, and no
certificate of occupancy shall be issued unless the building or structure shall
comply with all provisions of this title and amendments thereto and the
building commissioner shall have signed approval from all applicable inspectors
and inspection branches.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Temporary Certificate Of Occupancy: A temporary certificate of
occupancy may be issued by the building commissioner provided that:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â External Conditions: The applicant for such a temporary
certificate demonstrates that the construction which remains to be completed
relates solely to the external conditions of the development, such as
landscaping, and is not directly related to the safety of the premises; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Completion Impractical At Time Of Request: The applicant
demonstrates that such completion is impractical at the time the temporary
certificate is sought due to weather or other conditions acceptable to the
building commissioner; and/or is not directly related to the safety of the
premises; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Letter Of Credit: The applicant secures the completion of the
construction with a letter of credit, in a form acceptable to the village
president and village attorney, and in an amount sufficient to complete the
construction as determined by the building commissioner.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Records: A record of all certificates shall be kept on file in
the office of the building commissioner and copies shall be furnished on
request to any person having proprietary or tenancy interest in the building
affected.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Payment Of Village Debts Required: No certificate of occupancy shall
be issued until all outstanding debts or obligations due the village from the
property in question have been paid in full.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Change Of Occupancy:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Notice Posted: Upon determination that any building or structure or
part thereof has been vacated, the building commissioner shall post or cause to
be posted in a conspicuous place near each entrance to the building or
structure, a notice substantially in words and figures as follows:
Â Â Â VILLAGE OF BROADVIEW, ILLINOIS
Â Â Â BUILDING DEPARTMENT
Â Â Â NOTICE
This building is not to be occupied or used for any purpose until a certificate
of occupancy, or other authorization, shall have been issued by the Building
Commissioner.
Occupancy, use or change of this building for any purpose without authorization
by the Building Commissioner will be a violation of Section 7-3 of the Zoning
Ordinance of the Village of Broadview and subject to the penalties provided by
Title 1, Chapter 13 of the Broadview Village Code.
Date:Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 
Location:Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 
It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, cover, or obliterate this notice
without approval from:
Broadview Building Commissioner
2350 South 25th Avenue
Â Â Â Broadview, Illinois 60153
Phone: (708) 345-8174 or 681-3600
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 
Â Â Â Building Commissioner
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Unlawful To Remove: It shall be unlawful for any person to remove,
cover or obliterate any notice or notices lawfully posted by the building
commissioner or any other authorized official, as herein specified.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Change Of Occupancy: Whenever any building or structure, or part
thereof shall have been posted with a notice as herein specified, it shall be
unlawful for any person or persons to occupy, use or change such building for
any purpose without authorization from the building commissioner.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Penalty: Any person violating or refusing to obey any order issued
under this section or destroying, mutilating or concealing any notice posted by
or under the authority of the building commissioner shall be punished as
provided in title 1, chapter 13 of this code.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Continuation Of Existing Occupancy Or Use: Nothing in this section
shall prevent the continuance of the present occupancy or use of any existing
building or land for which a certificate of occupancy has been issued except
upon change of ownership or as may be necessary for the safety of life or
property. (Ord. 2008-22, 7-21-2008)
10-7-3: VARIANCES:
The "variation" process is intended to provide limited relief from the
requirements of this title in those cases where strict application of those
requirements will create a practical difficulty or particular hardship
prohibiting the use of land in a manner otherwise allowed under this title. It
is not intended that variations be granted merely to remove inconveniences or
financial burdens that the requirements of this title may impose on property
owners in general. Rather, it is intended to provide relief where the
requirements of this title render the land difficult to use because of some
unique physical attribute of the property itself or some other factor unique to
the property for which the variation is requested. In no event, however, shall
the village grant a variation which would allow the establishment of a use
which is not otherwise allowed in a zoning district or which would change the
zoning district classification of any or all of the affected property. (Ord.
2004-14, 6-21-2004)
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Application For Variation, Notice Of Hearing: An application for a
variation may be made by the owner of the subject property relating to the
variation or legal representative thereof. Said application shall be filed with
the zoning administrator who shall process and forward such application to the
planning and zoning board for consideration in accordance with applicable
statutes of the state.
No variations shall be recommended by the planning and zoning board except
after a public hearing before said board, of which there shall be a notice of
time and place of the hearing published at least once, not more than thirty
(30) nor less than fifteen (15) days before the hearing, in one or more
newspapers with a general circulation within the village. This notice shall
contain the particular location for which the variation is requested as well as
a brief statement of what the proposed variation consists.
In addition, not less than fifteen (15) days, nor more than thirty (30) days
before the public hearing, the applicant shall serve written notice, either in
person or by registered mail, return receipt requested, on the owners of all
property, as recorded in the office of the Cook County recorder of deeds and as
appears from the authentic tax records within two hundred fifty feet (250') in
each direction of the location for which the variation is requested; provided,
the number of feet occupied by all public roads, streets, alleys and other
public ways shall be excluded in computing the two hundred fifty foot (250')
requirement. The applicant shall furnish, at the public hearing, a written
statement certifying that he has complied with the requirements of this
subsection. Attached to the written statement shall be a list of property
owners notified in accordance with the above.
The planning and zoning board shall review the facts of the case and testimony
presented at the hearing and upon completion of the review, shall thereafter
submit a report of its findings and recommendations to the village board of
trustees within thirty (30) days of the completed public hearing. (Ord. 2007-
10, 4-16-2007)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Decisions By Planning And Zoning Board: All decisions of the planning
and zoning board on variations arrived at after the hearing shall require a
majority vote of all members and such decisions shall be final. However, an
appeal may be taken to the village board by any person or by any office,
department, board, bureau or commission aggrieved by the planning and zoning
board's decision on a variation request. Such an appeal shall be filed with the
village clerk who shall forward such appeal to the village board for final
action.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Standards For Granting Variances:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The planning and zoning board shall not vary the provisions of this
title as authorized in this chapter unless it shall have made findings based
upon the evidence presented to it in the following specific cases:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations
governing the district in which it is located.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The variation, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of the locality.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â For the purpose of supplementing the above standards, the planning
and zoning board, in making this determination whenever there are practical
difficulties or particular hardships, shall also take into consideration the
extent to which the following facts, favorable to the applicant, have been
established by the evidence:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The particular physical surroundings, shape or topographical
conditions of the specific property involved would bring a particular hardship
upon the owner as distinguished from a mere inconvenience if the strict letter
of the regulation were to be carried out.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The conditions upon which the petition for variation is based
would not be applicable generally to other property within the same zoning
classification.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The purpose of the variation is not based exclusively upon a
desire to make more money out of the property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â The alleged difficulty or hardship has not been created by any
person presently having an interest in the property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â The granting of the variation will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property or improvements in the
neighborhood in which the property is located.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â The proposed variation will not impair an adequate supply of
light and air to adjacent property, or substantially increase the danger of
fire, or otherwise endanger the public safety, or substantially diminish or
impair property values within the neighborhood.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The planning and zoning board may require such conditions and
restrictions upon the premises benefited by a variation as may be necessary to
comply with the standards set forth in this subsection C to reduce or minimize
the injurious effect of such variation upon other property in the neighborhood,
and to implement the general purpose and intent of this title.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Authorized Variances: Variations from the regulations of this title may
be decided by the planning and zoning board only in accordance with the
standards set forth in this subsection and only in the following instances:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â To permit a yard less than the yard required by the applicable
regulations.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â To permit the use of a lot not of record on the effective date
hereof for a use otherwise prohibited solely because of the insufficient area
of the lot, but in no event shall the area of the lot be less than ninety
percent (90%) of the required lot area.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â To permit the same off street parking spaces to qualify as required
spaces for two (2) or more uses; provided, that the maximum use of such
facility by each user does not take place during the same hours or on the same
days of the week.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â To increase by not more than twenty five percent (25%) the maximum
distance that required parking spaces are permitted to be located from the use
served.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â To allow any permitted, nonresidential use in a residence district
to exceed the floor area ratio imposed by the applicable regulation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â To allow other variances from these regulations when the planning
and zoning board determines it is in the best interests of the village and the
factors of this section are met.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Revocation: In any case where a variation has been granted, and where
no work pertinent thereto has been initiated within one year from the date of
approval of the requested variation, then without further action by the
village, said variation shall become null and void. (Ord. 2004-14, 6-21-2004)
10-7-3-1: CONDITIONAL USES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Authority: Conditional uses shall be authorized or denied by the zoning
administrator in accordance with the regulations and conditions set forth in
this section for conditional uses.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Standards For Granting Conditional Uses: No conditional use shall be
authorized by the zoning administrator unless it meets the standards set forth
in section
10-4-6 of this title.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Remedies For Denial Of Conditional Uses: Upon denial of a conditional
use permit by the zoning administrator, an application for a special use may be
made in accordance with section
10-7-4 of this chapter.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Time Limit Of Conditional Use Permits: A conditional use will expire if
the applicant fails to obtain a building permit or certificate of occupancy
within six (6) months from the date of the granting of the conditional use,
unless otherwise specified by the zoning administrator.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Transferability And Revocation: All conditional use permits shall be
approved for a specific location, and may be transferred to a successor
property owner. However, a conditional use permit may not be transferred to any
other location.
The zoning administrator shall have the authority to revoke said permit if the
zoning administrator determines that:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â All activities permitted pursuant to an approved conditional use
permit have ceased for a period of one year or more; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â There is any change in the use for which the conditional use permit
was granted; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A second conditional use permit is granted for the same property.
(Ord. 2005-19, 8-1-2005)
10-7-4: SPECIAL USES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Purpose: The development and execution of this title are based upon the
division of the village into districts, within any one of which the use of land
and buildings and the bulk and location of buildings or structures as related
to the land, are essentially uniform. It is recognized, however, that there are
special uses which, because of their unique character, cannot be properly
classified in any particular district or districts without consideration, in
each case, of the impact of those uses upon the neighboring lands and upon
public need for the particular use or the particular location. Such special
uses fall into two (2) categories: 1) uses operated by a public agency or
publicly regulated utilities, or uses traditionally affected with a public
interest; 2) uses entirely private in character, but of such a nature that the
operation may give rise to unique problems with respect to their impact upon
neighboring property or public facilities.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Authority: Special uses shall be authorized or denied by the village
board of trustees in accordance with the statutes of the state applicable to
amendments of this title, and the regulations and conditions set forth in this
title for special uses. (Ord. 2004-14, 6-21-2004)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Application For Special Use: An application for a special use may be
made by the owner of the subject property relating to the special use or legal
representative thereof. Said application, in such form and accompanied by ten
(10) sets of proposed preliminary development plans and such other information
as shall be established from time to time by the planning and zoning board,
shall be filed with the zoning administrator and thereafter processed in the
manner prescribed herein for processing applications for amendments.
No special use shall be recommended by the planning and zoning board except
after a public hearing before said board, of which there shall be a notice of
time and place of the hearing published at least once, not more than thirty
(30) nor less than fifteen (15) days before the hearing, in one or more
newspapers with a general circulation within the village. This notice shall
contain the particular location for which the special use is requested as well
as a brief statement of what the proposed special use consists.
Not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the public hearing, the
applicant shall post a readable sign(s) on the property(ies) which is/are the
subject of the application in a location visible from the public roadway. Sign
(s) must be removed no later than ten (10) days after a recommendation is made
by the planning and zoning board. The sign(s) may be placed in a window if the
principal building is located within fifteen feet (15') of the front property
line.
The sign(s) shall be constructed of weatherproof material and contain the
action requested, date, time and place where the meeting shall be held, a
statement that further information can be obtained from the petitioner and the
building department, and the phone number of the village of Broadview and the
petitioner. The words "NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING" must appear at the top of the
sign(s) in letters no smaller than 1.5 inches. The date and time of the meeting
shall also be 1.5 inches. All cost associated with hearing sign(s) is borne by
the applicant.
In addition, not less than fifteen (15) days, nor more than thirty (30) days
before the public hearing, the applicant shall serve written notice, either in
person or by registered mail, return receipt requested, on the owners of all
property, as recorded in the office of the Cook County recorder of deeds and as
appears from the authentic tax records, within two hundred fifty feet (250') in
each direction of the location for which the special use is requested;
provided, the number of feet occupied by all public roads, streets, alleys and
other public ways shall be excluded in computing the two hundred fifty foot
(250') requirement. The applicant shall furnish, at the public hearing, a
written statement certifying that he has complied with the requirements of this
subsection. Attached to the written statement shall be a list of property
owners notified in accordance with the above.
The planning and zoning board shall review the facts of the case and testimony
presented at the hearing and upon completion of the review, shall thereafter
submit a report of its findings and recommendations to the village board of
trustees within thirty (30) days of the completed public hearing. (Ord. 2007-
10, 4-16-2007)
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Standards For Granting Special Uses: No special use shall be authorized
by the village board of trustees unless the special use:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Is deemed necessary for the public convenience at that location.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Is so designed, located and proposed to be operated that the public
health, safety and welfare will be protected.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Would not cause substantial injury to the value of other property in
the neighborhood in which it is located.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Special Conditions: The planning and zoning board may recommend, and
the village board of trustees may require, such conditions and restrictions
upon the construction, location and operation of a special use as may be deemed
necessary to promote the general objectives of this title and to minimize the
injury to the value of property in the neighborhood. (Ord. 2004-14, 6-21-2004)
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Planned Developments: Planned developments are of such substantially
different character from other special uses that specific and additional
standards and exceptions are hereby set out to govern the recommendations of
the planning commission/planning and zoning board and the action of the village
board of trustees.
In the case of business, manufacturing or residential planned developments, the
planning commission/planning and zoning board may recommend, and the village
board of trustees may authorize, that there be in part of the area of such
development and for the duration of such development, specified uses not
determined or permitted by the use regulations of the district in which the
development is located, provided that the planning and zoning board shall find:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The uses permitted by such exception are necessary and desirable and
are appropriate with respect to the primary purpose of the development.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The uses permitted by such exception are not of such nature or so
located as to exercise a detrimental influence on the surrounding neighborhood.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Not more than twenty percent (20%) of the ground area or of the
floor area of such development would be devoted to the uses permitted by the
exceptions.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Decisions: The village board of trustees, upon report of the planning
and zoning board/planning commission and without further hearing, may authorize
or deny an application for a special use in accordance with the statutes of the
state applicable to approval of amendments, or may refer it back to the
planning and zoning board/planning commission for further consideration. (Ord.
2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-7-5: APPEALS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Authority: The planning and zoning board shall hear and decide appeals
from an administrative order, requirement, decision or determination made by
the building commissioner or other authorized officials of the village,
relating to regulations of this title.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Applicability Of Appeals: An appeal may be taken to the planning and
zoning board by any person or by any office, department, board, bureau or
commission aggrieved by an administrative order, requirement, decision or
determination under this title by the building commissioner or other authorized
official.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Initiation Of Appeal: An appeal shall be filed with the village clerk
who shall forward such appeal to the planning and zoning board for processing
in accordance with applicable statutes of the state.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Decisions: All decisions, after hearing before the planning and zoning
board on appeals from an administrative order, requirement, decision or
determination of the building commissioner or other authorized official of the
village, relating to this title, shall, in all instances, be final
administrative determination and shall be subject to judicial review only in
accordance with applicable statutes of the state. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-7-6: AMENDMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Authority: The regulations imposed and the districts created under the
authority of this title may be amended from time to time in accordance with
applicable statutes of the state. An amendment shall be granted or denied by
the village board of trustees only after a public hearing before the planning
and zoning board and a report of its findings and recommendations has been
submitted to the village board of trustees.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Initiation Of Amendment: Amendments may be proposed by the village
board of trustees, by the planning and zoning board, or by the owner of the
subject property relating to the amendment or legal representative thereof.
(Ord. 2006-07, 4-3-2006)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Procedure: An application for an amendment shall be filed with the
zoning administrator and thereafter introduced to the village board of
trustees. The zoning administrator shall schedule a public hearing and forward
copies of the application to the planning and zoning board. No amendment shall
be recommended by the planning and zoning board except after a public hearing
before said board, of which there shall be a notice of time and place of the
hearing published at least once, not more than thirty (30) nor less than
fifteen (15) days before the hearing, in one or more newspapers with a general
circulation within the village. This notice shall contain the particular
location for which the amendment is requested as well as a brief statement of
what the proposed amendment consists.
Not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the public hearing, the
applicant shall post a readable sign(s) on the property(ies) which is/are the
subject of the application in a location visible from the public roadway. Sign
(s) must be removed no later than ten (10) days after a recommendation is made
by the planning and zoning board. The sign(s) may be placed in a window if the
principal building is located within fifteen feet (15') of the front property
line.
The sign(s) shall be constructed of weatherproof material and contain the
action requested, date, time and place where the meeting shall be held, a
statement that further information can be obtained from the petitioner and the
building department, and the phone number of the village of Broadview and the
petitioner. The words "NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING" must appear at the top of the
sign(s) in letters no smaller than 1.5 inches. The date and time of the meeting
shall also be 1.5 inches. All cost associated with hearing sign(s) is borne by
the applicant.
If the applicant is not the owner of the property which is the subject of the
application, the applicant must provide personal notice of the public hearing
to the property owner via certified mail sent to the property address which is
the subject of the application, and also to the taxpayer of record if the tax
roll records reflect a different address.
In addition, not less than fifteen (15) days, nor more than thirty (30) days
before the public hearing, the applicant shall serve written notice, either in
person or by registered mail, return receipt requested, on the owners of all
property, as recorded in the office of the Cook County recorder of deeds and as
appears from the authentic tax records, within two hundred fifty feet (250') in
each direction of the location for which the amendment is requested; provided,
the number of feet occupied by all public roads, streets, alleys and other
public ways shall be excluded in computing the two hundred fifty foot (250')
requirement. The applicant shall furnish, at the public hearing, a written
statement certifying that he has complied with the requirements of this
subsection. Attached to the written statement shall be a list of property
owners notified in accordance with the above.
If the village board of trustees or the planning and zoning board is the
applicant, or if the application only requests an amendment to the textual
provisions of the zoning ordinance and does not request rezoning of property,
the requirements directing the applicant to post a sign(s) for notice of the
public hearing and to mail notice to property owners within two hundred fifty
feet (250') shall not apply.
The planning and zoning board shall review the facts of the case and testimony
presented at the hearing and upon completion of the review, shall thereafter
submit a report of its findings and recommendations to the village board of
trustees.
The village board of trustees, upon a report of the planning and zoning board
and without further public hearing, may grant or deny any proposed amendment in
accordance with applicable statutes of the state, or may refer it back to the
planning and zoning board for further consideration. (Ord. 2007-10, 4-16-2007)
10-7-7: FEES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The village board shall establish a schedule of fees, charges and
expenses for occupancy certificates, appeals, applications for variations,
zoning amendments, planned developments, special uses, site plan review, signs
and other administrative matters pertaining to this zoning ordinance.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The approved schedule of fees shall be filed and posted in the office
of the building department, and may be altered or amended by the village board
from time to time.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â All consulting fees incurred by the village for variations, amendments,
special use permits and site plan review pursuant to the terms of this title,
shall be paid by the petitioner or applicant in accordance with section
3-1A-4 of this code.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â No action shall be taken on any appeal, or application for variation,
amendment, special use, planned development, or site plan review until all
applicable fees, charges and expenses have been paid in full. (Ord. 2004-29,
12-6-2004)
10-7-8: PENALTY:
(Rep. by Ord. 2004-29, 12-6-2004)
10-7-9: DEVELOPMENT REVIEW COMMITTEE:
To provide for the fair and expeditious review of subdivision, variance, and
site plan applications, a development review committee is established. The
development review committee shall consist of the following members or their
representatives:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The village president;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The village engineer or consultant;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The village planner or consultant;
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The building commissioner;
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â The director of public works;
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â The chief of police or his/her representative;
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â The fire department chief or his/her representative;
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â The chairman of the plan commission; and
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â The zoning administrator.
The development review committee shall meet as needed. At least one week prior
to the meeting, the building commissioner shall submit copies of all pending
applications to members of the development review committee. The purpose of
this committee is to review applications for completeness and compliance with
village codes and regulations. The village planner or consultant will be
responsible for documenting suggestions made at committee meetings and
forwarding comments to the plan commission and the applicant. Applicants of
projects requiring review should attend and participate in discussion of their
project with the development review committee. (Ord. 2006-10, 5-1-2006)
10-7-10: REVIEW OF ZONING ORDINANCE:
The zoning ordinance shall be reviewed on a yearly basis and shall be initiated
and conducted by the zoning administrator. The purpose of this review will be
to update the zoning ordinance to meet any new needs of the village, to update
any outdated definitions and terminology, and to maintain consistency with
other village ordinances and federal and state laws. (Ord. 2004-14, 6-21-2004)
10-7-11: PROCEDURE DIAGRAMS:
(Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
(Ord. 2006-07, 4-3-2006)
CHAPTER 8
SITE PLAN REVIEW
SECTION:
10-8-1: Site Plan Review; Where Required
10-8-2: Objectives
10-8-3: Factors Considered
10-8-4: Filing
10-8-5: Additional Requirements
10-8-6: Development Review Procedure
10-8-7: Site Approval
10-8-8: Failure To Revise Site Plan
10-8-9: Compliance, Time Limit
10-8-10: Extent Of Authority
10-8-1: SITE PLAN REVIEW; WHERE REQUIRED:
Site plan approval shall be required for property within the R-2 and R-3 multi-
family, C-1 and C-2 commercial, or O/I office/industrial and M manufacturing
zoning districts. If a building permit is sought for any new construction,
enlargement, relocation, reconstruction, or for any open parking area,
accessory or otherwise, whether by right, variance, or commercial use, or if
exterior changes to a building or structure are to be made which involve
changes of decor, hanging of signs not permitted as of right, masonry work or
other modifications to the general exterior appearance and design of the
building, an application shall be made to the village for review of the site
plan. No building permit shall be issued where compliance with this title is
required, unless the applicant has received prior site plan approval under this
title, and no certificate of occupancy shall be issued unless there has been
compliance with all the terms and provisions of site plan approval.
In the case of any building whose use is indefinite at the time the initial
application is filed, the applicant may apply for preliminary site plan
approval for the purpose of starting construction. The initial application
shall contain all those items required under chapter 4 of this title which are
available at that time; and, as soon as the use of the building becomes
definite, the applicant shall complete the application and apply for final site
plan approval. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-8-2: OBJECTIVES:
The objectives of site plan review are to determine whether use, building,
structure addition or change to any building, structure or use will conform to
the state statutes, the zoning ordinance, the village's comprehensive plan and
Roosevelt Road redevelopment plan, and other applicable ordinances and
requirements of the village and state. Site plan review shall work towards the
development of an aesthetically acceptable and well ordered community serving
the interest of public health, safety, and general welfare. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-
2-2001)
10-8-3: FACTORS CONSIDERED:
In the course of such review, the village shall consider, but not be limited
to, such factors as the following:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The preservation of any scenic natural features.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The adequacy of access, for fire and police protection.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The adequacy of provisions for drainage of surface waters and for waste
disposal.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The location and the layout of accessory off street parking and off
street loading spaces, the width and grading of all entrances and exits to such
places, the location of such exits and entrances, the traffic flow, together
with: 1) the distance from street intersection, 2) the likelihood of left hand
turns and other turning movements, and 3) the likelihood of drawing vehicular
traffic to and through local residential streets.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â The arrangements for safe and convenient pedestrian circulation, on the
site and on its approaches.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â The impact of the proposed layout upon the surrounding area, and
particularly upon any nearby residences including, but not limited to: 1) the
location and height of buildings and the extent of their shadows, 2) the
location, intensity, and directions of any outdoor lighting and the proposed
times for its use, 3) the location of any overhead power lines, 4) the
likelihood of any other nuisances, and 5) whether appropriate and adequate
screening is provided; particularly the screening of mechanical equipment.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â The size, location and type of any signs.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Proposed plans for any outdoor display or storage.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â The proposed landscaping, and its appropriateness in the area involved.
Preservation of substantial trees is to be encouraged to the maximum extent
possible.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â The arrangement of buildings, structures and open spaces on the site;
and the kind and use of building materials.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â In its review, the village shall encourage creative design of the site,
to provide a convenient and attractive layout. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-8-4: FILING:
The applicant shall file with the village building department one original
application for plan approval on a form to be provided by the building
department together with the required fee and ten (10) copies of a site plan
which shall include the following items and information:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â A survey of the property prepared by an Illinois licensed surveyor
showing the boundaries of the property, building or setback lines and the lines
of all existing streets, roads, easements, rights of way and areas dedicated to
public use within two hundred feet (200') of the property. The survey shall
also contain a title, north point, scale, name and address of record owner, and
the name, address and professional license number and seal of the surveyor who
prepared the survey, and the date of the survey. Said date shall be no more
than sixty (60) days prior to the date of application for site plan review. The
survey shall be drawn to scale and the scale shall not be larger than one inch
equals fifty feet (1" = 50').
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â At the site and within two hundred feet (200') thereof, the location
and use of all existing or proposed usage for lands, or all existing or
proposed buildings, and of all other existing or proposed structures such as
walls, fences, culverts, bridges, roadways, etc., with spot elevations of such
structures. Buildings to be removed shall be indicated by broken lines. Such
features shall be indicated on a separate drawing when requested by the village
planner or village engineer.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â All zoning and special district boundaries and off street parking
within two hundred feet (200') of the property. Such features shall be shown on
a separate map or as a key map on the detail map itself.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Location of all existing and proposed storm drainage structures and
utility lines, including telephone, power, water, sewer, gas, etc., whether
publicly or privately owned, with pipe sizes, grades and direction of flow.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â The distances, as measured along the centerlines of existing streets
abutting the property, to the nearest intersection with any other public
street.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â All means of vehicular and pedestrian ingress and egress to and from
the site onto public streets, showing the size and locations of driveway and
curb cuts.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â The location and design of any off street parking areas, showing size
and location of spaces, aisles and barriers.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Location, direction of illumination and intensity of all proposed
outdoor lighting. (Ord. 2006-10, 5-1-2006)
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Landscaping:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The purpose of these landscaping requirements is to provide adequate
screening and buffering of structures, parking areas and land uses, which will:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Promote the compatibility of land uses;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Conserve or enhance property values;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Break up large expanses of pavement and decrease surface water
runoff and erosion;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Reduce heat buildup and the effects of wind;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Provide safe pedestrianways and traffic separation;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Restrict blowing trash and litter; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Improve the visual quality of the site, as well as overall
community appearance.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The following landscape requirements shall apply:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â A landscape plan, prepared by a registered landscape architect,
shall be submitted for review and shall include the identification of species,
size, and spacing and location of plant materials and all other landscape
treatments. Such landscape plan shall be of a suitable scale, or as a part of
the final site plan, to illustrate proposed landscaping, as well as existing
vegetation to remain.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Trees and shrubs shall be keyed into a plant list.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The preservation of existing trees, shrubs or other plantings is
encouraged and should be done whenever such preservation is practical. Existing
vegetation may be used to meet the landscaping requirements described herein.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Plantings shall consist of varieties that are appropriate to the
climate and that will not be allowed to grow to obstruct or interfere with
aerial power lines, streetlights or signage. The village shall maintain a list
of appropriate plantings.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Any commercial, institutional or industrial use greater than one
acre in size, in any zoning district, shall provide a minimum of ten percent
(10%) of the total lot area as landscaping.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Upon installation, plantings shall meet the following minimum
size requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Shade trees: Two and one-half inch (2.5") caliper as measured
twelve inches (12") above grade;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Evergreen trees: Six feet (6') tall, minimum; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Ornamental trees: Six feet (6') tall, minimum, if multi-stem.
Two and one-half inch (2.5") caliper as measured twelve inches (12") above
grade if single stem.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â All off street parking areas greater than four (4) parking spaces
(excluding parking garages, parking decks and parking structures) shall provide
a perimeter landscaping strip of a minimum of three feet (3'). Such landscaping
shall be located on all sides of the parking area, and any required drives or
pedestrian accessways shall be exempted. If adjacent to residential lots, a
wall or fence of not less than five feet (5') in height, or a densely planted,
compact hedge not less than five feet (5') in height, shall be provided.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â All off street parking areas of twenty (20) or more spaces
(excluding parking garages, parking decks and parking structures) shall provide
one interior landscaping island of a minimum of one hundred (100) square feet
for every twenty (20) parking spaces. All such landscaping islands shall
contain at least one shade tree.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â i.Â Â Â Where the requirements imposed by any provision of the zoning
ordinance involving landscaping, screening, buffer strips, yards, or other open
space requirements are either more or less restrictive than the requirements of
this subsection, the regulations which impose a higher standard shall apply.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â j.Â Â Â Due to the dense urban character and limited developable land
available within the village, the board of trustees may modify or waive any
provision of these landscaping standards based on specific site limitations and
the recommendations of the development review committee. (Ord. 2006-15, 6-5-
2006)
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â A detailed written description, sketch, rendering or picture of any
buildings or structures to be constructed.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â A copy of any covenants and deed restrictions that are intended to
cover all or any part of the tract.
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â Name and address, of the architect, land planner or surveyor preparing
the site plan, and the date of the site plan. (Ord. 2006-10, 5-1-2006)
10-8-5: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
The following additional items and information may be required by the village
planner or consultant or the village engineer, whenever he determines that they
would be necessary or helpful to the village in reviewing the site plan:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Existing contours at intervals of one foot (1') of elevation where
slopes are three percent (3%) or less, and intervals of two feet (2') where
slopes are more than three percent (3%), based upon United States coast and
geodetic survey data. Where any changes in contours are proposed, existing
grades shall be indicated by dashed lines and final grades shall be indicated
by solid lines.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Location of existing rock outcrops, high points, watercourses,
depressions, ponds, marshes, wooded areas with trees having a diameter of eight
inches (8") or more, as measured one foot (1') above ground level, and other
significant features, including previous flood elevations of watercourses,
ponds and marsh areas as determined by survey.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â All proposed easements and public and community areas. All proposed
streets with profiles indicating grading, and cross sections showing width of
sidewalk, and locations and size of utility lines, according to the standards
and specifications of the village.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Such other items and information pertaining to the site as the village
planner or consultant or the village engineer may reasonably determine to be
necessary or helpful to the village in reviewing the application. (Ord. 2001-
08A, 4-2-2001)
10-8-6: DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCEDURE:
After the filing of the complete application and site plan referred to above,
copies shall be delivered to each of the members of the development review
committee. The development review committee shall review the application, site
plan, and any other evidence submitted by the applicant or interested party.
The development review committee may request additional information, testimony,
or submissions of the applicant relevant to the application and site plan. The
development review committee shall act to ensure compliance with all ordinances
of the village. The development review committee may recommend approval or
disapproval of the proposed plan, or may recommend approval subject to
appropriate conditions and safeguards. The development review committee shall
forward its recommendation to the president and the board of trustees for full
review. (Ord. 2002-03, 3-18-2002)
10-8-7: SITE APPROVAL:
The president and board of trustees shall acknowledge receipt of the
recommendation from the development review committee at a regular business
meeting or committee meeting, and schedule a time to review the recommendation.
Such review may take place as part of the board's regular business meeting or
committee meeting. Notice of the meeting to review the recommendation will be
published pursuant to the provisions of the open meetings act, if it is not
part of a regularly scheduled board meeting. No new information or evidence may
be presented. If the applicant wishes to present such new evidence or
information he must request that the application be returned to the development
review committee, which shall examine any new evidence presented and shall
forward a new recommendation to the president and board of trustees.
The president and board of trustees shall issue a decision affirming, denying,
or modifying the recommendation of the development review committee based upon
the factors and objectives set forth herein. The decision and findings
contained therein shall be final. (Ord. 2002-03, 3-18-2002)
10-8-8: FAILURE TO REVISE SITE PLAN:
In the event the village board requires any correction or revision of the site
plan, no building permit shall be issued until the applicant has submitted a
site plan corrected or revised in accordance with the requirements of the
village board. (Ord. 2002-03, 3-18-2002)
10-8-9: COMPLIANCE, TIME LIMIT:
Any action of the applicant to construct, operate or maintain any building,
structure, or use in a manner other than provided for in the approved site
plan, shall constitute a violation of this title and shall be the basis for the
issuance of a stop order.
The failure of the applicant to complete construction within one year of site
plan approval, or any longer period specified by the village board at the time
of its approval, shall nullify the permit. However, extensions of time for
completion by the applicant may be granted by the village board upon the
request of applicant, together with evidence of continuing progress toward
completion. (Ord. 2006-10, 5-1-2006)
10-8-10: EXTENT OF AUTHORITY:
Nothing in this title shall be interpreted to give the village board or
development review committee power to authorize in any district any use of a
building or structure not permitted by law in that district, to issue any
exception, variance, or special permit, to approve any conditional use, to
exclude from any district any use permitted by the regulation of the district
merely on the grounds that such use is inappropriate in a specific location.
Any development approved under the provisions of this title shall conform to
all ordinances or regulations of the district in which the proposed development
is located, specifically the permitted height and coverage, and the required
lot area per dwelling unit, usable open space, lot width and lot depth, yards
and off street parking and loading spaces. (Ord. 2002-03, 3-18-2002)
CHAPTER 9
SIGNS
SECTION:
10-9-1: Purpose
10-9-2: Scope
10-9-3: Definitions
10-9-4: Exemptions
10-9-5: Administration; Permit
10-9-6: General Standards
10-9-7: Computations
10-9-8: Signs Allowed In Residential Zoning Districts
10-9-9: Signs Allowed In Nonresidential Zoning Districts
10-9-10: Permitted Extra Signs
10-9-11: Unified Business Center Sign Plan
10-9-12: Temporary Signs
10-9-13: Legal Nonconforming Signs
10-9-14: Signs In The Public Right Of Way
10-9-15: Official, Corporate And Ancillary Flags
10-9-16: Prohibited Signs
10-9-16-1: Off Site Signage (Billboards)
10-9-16-2: Electronic Changeable Copy Signs
10-9-17: Maintenance And Operation
10-9-18: Violations
10-9-19: Enforcement And Remedies
10-9-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is established to create the standards for a comprehensive and
balanced system of sign regulations for the following purposes:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â To encourage, as a means of communication in the village of Broadview,
the employment of signs which are:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Compatible with their surroundings.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Appropriate to the type of activity to which they pertain.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Expressive of the identity of individual proprietors.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Legible in the circumstances in which they are seen.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Respectful of the reasonable rights of other sign owners.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â To preserve, protect and promote the public health, safety and welfare.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â To improve pedestrian and traffic safety.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â To maintain and enhance community appearance and the village's ability
to attract sources of economic development by promoting the reasonable, orderly
and effective display of signs.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â To minimize the possible adverse effect of signs on nearby public and
private property.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â To preserve the value of private property by assuring the compatibility
of signs with surrounding land uses.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â To ensure that signs are designed as integral architectural elements of
the building and site to which they principally relate. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-
2001)
10-9-2: SCOPE:
No sign in the village of Broadview shall be constructed, erected, converted,
altered, rebuilt, enlarged, remodeled, relocated or expanded until a permit for
such sign has been obtained in accordance with the standards and procedures set
out in this chapter. However, no permit shall be required for routine
maintenance as defined herein. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-9-3: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions noted below apply uniquely to this chapter and supersede any
conflicting definitions found in the zoning ordinance. Many of these
definitions are graphically depicted in the diagrams included in this section.
ANIMATED SIGN: Any sign that uses movement or change of lighting to depict
action or create a special effect or scene.
AWNING: A structure made of cloth, metal or other material affixed to a
building in such a manner that the structure may be permanently affixed or
affixed in such a manner that it may be raised or retracted to a position
against the building.
AWNING SIGN: Any sign that is painted, printed or otherwise placed on the outer
surface of an awning in such a manner that the awning forms the background
surface of the sign.
BANNER SIGN: Any temporary sign of lightweight fabric or similar material that
is attached to a pole or building and secured on at least two (2) sides.
National flags, state or municipal flags, shall not be considered banners.
CANOPY AND MARQUEE SIGNS: A sign that is mounted or painted on, or attached to,
a canopy or marquee.
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN: A sign or portion thereof with characters, letters, or
illustrations that can be changed or rearranged. A sign on which the message
changes more than eight (8) times per day shall be considered an animated sign
and not a changeable copy sign for purposes of this chapter. A sign on which
the only copy that changes is an electronic or mechanical indication of time or
temperature shall be considered a "time and temperature" portion of a sign and
not a changeable copy sign for purposes of this chapter.
CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN, ELECTRONIC: A type of sign or portion thereof that is
capable of displaying words, symbols or alphanumeric characters which are
defined by a small number of matrix elements using different combinations of
light emitting diodes (LEDs), fiber optics, light bulbs or other illumination
devices that can be electronically or automatically programmed and may be
changed by remote or automatic means. The following terms for such electronic
changeable copy signs shall be defined as follows:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Dissolve: A mode of message transition on an electronic changeable copy
sign accomplished by varying the light intensity or pattern, where one message
gradually appears to dissipate and lose legibility simultaneous to the gradual
appearance and legibility of a subsequent message.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Fade: A mode of message transition on an electronic changeable copy
sign accomplished by varying the light intensity, where one message gradually
reduces intensity to the point of not being legible and a subsequent message
gradually increases intensity to the point of legibility.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Nits: A luminance unit equal to one candle per square meter measured
perpendicular to the rays from the source.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Scroll: A mode of message transition on an electronic changeable copy
sign where the message is changed by the apparent vertical movement of the
letters or graphic elements of the message.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Static: Graphics on an electronic changeable copy sign having no motion
or movement of any type.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Travel: A mode of message transition on an electronic changeable copy
sign where the message is changed by the apparent horizontal movement of the
letters or graphic elements of the message.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Transition: A visual effect used on an electronic changeable copy sign
to change from one message to a subsequent message.
COMMERCIAL MESSAGE: Any sign wording, logo, or other representation that,
directly or indirectly, names, advertises, or calls attention to a business,
product, service, or other commercial activity.
COMPREHENSIVE SIGN PLAN: A sign plan approved by the plan commission indicating
the size and location of all signs to be located in a unified business center.
CONSTRUCTION SIGN: A sign announcing the impending construction of a project,
limited to displaying the name of the project, the developer, the financial
institution providing the finance, the designer(s), the general contractor, a
phone number where more information may be obtained, and a date announcing the
planned completion of the project.
ERECT: To build, construct, attach, hang, rehang, place, affix, or relocate and
includes the painting or lettering of a sign.
EXTERNAL ILLUMINATION: Illumination of a sign which is produced by an
artificial source of light which is not contained within the sign itself.
FACADE: Any side, surface or wall below the roof of a building which is
parallel or within forty five degrees (45Â°) of parallel with a parcel's
frontage on a public thoroughfare, which faces toward and relates to that
public thoroughfare. If a building has a complex shape, then all walls or
surfaces facing in the same direction, or nearly the same direction, are part
of a single facade.
FLAG: Any fabric or bunting containing distinctive colors, patterns, or
symbols, used as a symbol of a government, political subdivision, or other
entity.
FLASHING SIGN: A directly or indirectly illuminated sign where the source of
illumination is not maintained constant or stationary in the intensity or color
at all times when such sign is in use.
FOR SALE/FOR LEASE/FOR RENT SIGNS: A sign which directs attention to a housing,
office, or retail development with space for sale, lease or rent.
FREESTANDING SIGN: Any sign not attached to a building; primarily ground signs,
pole signs, pylon signs, and portable signs.
GARAGE/YARD SALE SIGN: Any sign used in residential zoning districts to
advertise the sale of used, unwanted household goods.
GASOLINE STATION: A premises where motor fuels are sold for direct use by motor
vehicles.
GRADE: Established or finished elevation measured at the center line of the
adjacent street.
GROUND SIGN: Any detached sign which has its bottom portion erected upon or
mounted on a base that is permanently set on the ground that is at least as
wide as the bottom side of the sign. Ground signs are also commonly known as
monument signs.
HISTORIC SIGN: A sign at least thirty (30) years old and which, by reason of
unique design, size configuration, or its product's/company's long association
with the village, is of extraordinary local significance, makes a contribution
to the cultural, historic, or aesthetic quality of the village's streetscape.
IDENTIFICATION SIGN: A sign where the text gives the name and address of a
building, business, development, or establishment. Such a sign may also be
wholly or partly devoted to a readily recognized symbol.
ILLUMINATED SIGN: Any sign which is lit by an artificial (usually electric)
light source.
INFLATABLE SIGN: Any sign or inflatable device of more than two (2) cubic feet
in capacity designed to be filled with air or a gas lighter than air, displayed
to attract the attention of the public. This definition shall include balloons
and balloon signs.
INSTRUCTIONAL SIGN: A sign, generally informational, that has a purpose
secondary to the use of the lot on which it is located, such as "no parking",
"entrance", "loading only", and other similar directives.
INTERNAL ILLUMINATION: The illumination of a sign which is produced by an
artificial source of light concealed or contained within the sign itself, and
which becomes visible in darkness through the translucent portion of the sign
face.
MARQUEE: Any hood or roof-like structure of permanent construction supported
entirely by the building, and projecting from the building's wall.
MOVIE OR LIVE ENTERTAINMENT THEATER: A fully enclosed building with fixed or
movable seats arranged in an auditorium fashion, where motion pictures or live
entertainment acts are presented.
NONCONFORMING SIGN: Any sign that does not conform to the requirements of this
title.
OFF-SITE SIGN: Any general outdoor advertising sign, which is designed to
advertise or direct attention to a business or activity conducted or a product,
commodity, service, real property, entertainment, or facilities offered or sold
elsewhere than on the same lot or within the same building upon which the sign
is located or to which it is affixed, or which directs persons to a location
different from where the sign is installed. The term "billboard" shall be
included in this definition.
OFFICER: The building inspector of the village of Broadview.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company,
organization, or partnership, singular or plural, of any kind.
POLE SIGN: A sign mounted on one or more freestanding pole(s) or pylons.
POLITICAL SIGN: Any sign displayed in conjunction with an official election or
referendum, used on behalf of candidates for elected public office or to
advocate a position on referenda.
PORTABLE SIGNS: Any sign attached to or mounted upon a frame intended to be
moved from place to place.
PROJECTING SIGN: A sign wholly or partly dependent upon a building for support,
and which projects more than twelve inches (12") in a perpendicular fashion
from such building.
RESIDENTIAL REAL ESTATE SIGN: A sign used to advertise the sale, lease or rent
of an individual home, apartment or property located in a residential zoning
district.
RESIDENTIAL SIGN: Any sign located in a district zoned for residential uses
that contains no commercial message except advertising for goods or services
legally offered on the premises where the sign is located.
ROOF SIGN: A sign mounted on the roof of a building.
SIGN: A name, identification, description, display, message, or illustration
which is affixed to, or represented directly or indirectly upon a building,
structure, or piece of land, and which directs attention to an object, product,
place, activity, person, institution, organization, or business.
SIGN CONTRACTOR: A person or entity who performs work for compensation in
connection with the erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair,
moving, improvement, maintenance, conversion or manufacture of any sign.
SIGN STRUCTURE: The sign and all parts associated with its mounting.
SIGN SUPPORTS: All structural features by which a sign is held up, including,
for example, poles, braces, guys, and anchors.
SIGN SURFACE AREA: The total exposed surface within a continuous perimeter
composed of a single rectangle enclosing the extreme limits of characters,
lettering, illustrations, ornamentations, or other figures, together with any
material, or color used as an integral part of the display or to differentiate
the sign from the background on which it is placed.
SUSPENDED SIGN: A sign that is suspended from the underside of a horizontal
plane surface and is supported by such surface.
TEMPORARY SIGN: Any sign designed, constructed, or erected to display a message
for a limited duration of time. Such signs include, but are not limited to:
banner, beacon or searchlight, garage/yard sale, grand opening, political,
portable, real estate, and special event signs, as well as any other sign which
by its definition and application in this chapter is designated as a temporary
sign.
UNIFIED BUSINESS CENTER: Premises containing three (3) or more individual
offices or businesses sharing a common building.
VILLAGE: The village of Broadview, Cook County, Illinois.
VILLAGE BOARD: The mayor and trustees of the village of Broadview.
WALL SIGN: Any sign attached parallel to and supported by a wall or building,
and within six inches (6") of such wall, or painted on the wall surface of any
building.
WINDOW AREA: Any transparent area on a facade through which the interior of a
premises may be viewed from outside.
WINDOW SIGN: Any sign which is affixed or placed so that its message or image
is read as a part of the total composition of a window area.
ZONING LOT OR LOTS: A single tract of land which is designated by its owner or
developer as a tract to be used, developed or built upon as a single unit,
under single control or ownership. It may be a single parcel separately
described in a deed or plat which is recorded in the office of the county
recorder of deeds, or it may include parts of or a combination of such parcels
when adjacent to one another and used as one lot.
(Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001; amd. Ord. 13-02, 1-22-2013)
10-9-4: EXEMPTIONS:
The following signs shall be exempt from all but the maintenance and public
safety requirements of this chapter:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Government Signs: Any public notice, warning, directional, and other
instructional or regulatory signs required by a valid and applicable federal,
state, or local law, regulation, or ordinance.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Interior Signs: Any sign inside a building, not attached to a window or
door, which cannot be read from vehicles passing on adjoining streets.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Nonsign Decorations: Temporary displays, including holiday lights,
decorations, painted window areas, works of art, flags (not exceeding 50 square
feet), memorial signs, religious or historic symbols, and other displays with
no commercial message.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Traffic Control Signs: On private property, such as stop, yield, and
similar signs which meet Illinois department of transportation standards, and
which contain no commercial message.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Memorial Signs: Memorial signs or tablets listing names or buildings
and date of erection, when cut into any masonry surface or inlaid so as to be
part of the building or when constructed of bronze or other incombustible
material.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Directional And Warning Signs: Signs, not exceeding five (5) square
feet in area, which provide instruction, direction or warning and are located
entirely on the property to which they pertain to identify restrooms, public
telephones, walkways, parking lot entrances and exits, and features of a
similar nature or with respect to warnings, "no trespassing", "no dumping", and
similar warning signs. Parking lot entrance and exit signs shall not exceed
five feet (5') in height.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Business Nameplates: Nonelectrical nameplates denoting the business
name of an occupation legally conducted on the premises, provided that the sign
area does not exceed two (2) square feet in area, provided that no more than
one sign per principal use may be erected.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Vending Machine Signs: Permanent, nonflashing signs on vending
machines, gasoline pumps, ice containers, automated teller machines, or other
similar machines. Such signs shall relate only to that which is dispensed by
the machine. Such signs may be illuminated only on the front. Logos, names or
other promotional information shall be considered the permitted sign. (Ord.
2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-9-5: ADMINISTRATION; PERMIT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Administrative Officer: The building inspector of the village of
Broadview is designated to administer this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Permit Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Permit Required: Unless otherwise exempted in this chapter, no sign
shall be erected, structurally or graphically altered, or relocated without
having first obtained a valid permit for such sign, issued by the village. No
permit shall be required for routine maintenance of a sign.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Permit Application: Application for permits to erect, construct, or
alter a sign shall be submitted on a form and in the manner prescribed by the
building inspector. Each application shall be signed by the owner of the sign
and the owner of the property upon which it is to be located. Applications for
permits shall be accompanied by such information as may be required to assure
compliance with all applicable regulations. Information shall be submitted in
eight and one-half inch by eleven inch (81/2" x 11") format for easy
duplication. Submission requirements shall include:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â A drawing or drawings indicating the location of the building,
structure or lot to which or upon which the sign or advertising structure is to
be attached or erected;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â A drawing or photograph showing the position of the sign or
advertising structure in relation to structures;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Two (2) prints of the drawings and specifications, and color
renderings for the proposed sign or advertising structure, including the
methods of construction, illumination, materials and attachment to the
buildings or in the ground. Such drawings must include all text and graphics
proposed on the sign, drawn to scale with dimensions; legal nonconforming signs
can satisfy this requirement by submitting a photograph of the sign;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â If required by the building inspector, a copy of a statement by a
registered professional engineer indicating that said sign meets structural and
wind pressure requirements, and will not pose a public health or safety threat;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Name of person, firm, corporation or association responsible for
erecting the sign or advertising structure;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Written consent of the owner or agent of the zoning lot on which
the sign or advertising structure is to be erected;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â A completed application for any electrical permit required to be
issued for said sign or advertising structure;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â i.Â Â Â A master sign plan documenting all existing signs on the zoning
lot, including their type and area, location, and the occupant of the site to
which each sign pertains;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â j.Â Â Â Any additional information as the building inspector shall
require to show full compliance with this and all other applicable chapters of
this code; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â k.Â Â Â A landscape plan, including proposed location, quantity, size,
and species of required landscape improvements. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Application Review Procedures:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The following procedure must be followed for approval of a sign
permit:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Building Commissioner Approval: Applications for all new
permanent signs not previously located on the zoning lot, changes to existing
signs, and temporary signs requiring a permit shall be reviewed and approved or
denied by the building commissioner.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Planning Commission: Appeals from decisions of the building
commissioner, and all variances to this chapter shall be considered by the
planning commission. All recommendations of the planning commission shall be
referred to the village board for consideration. (Ord. 2005-20, 8-1-2005)
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Inspection Procedures:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Preinstallation Inspection: The person responsible for the
installation of a sign shall schedule with the building inspector a
preinstallation inspection prior to installing any sign requiring a permit.
Such inspection shall include a footing inspection, if applicable, and
confirmation of the other details of mounting and placement.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Final Inspection: The person responsible for the installation of a
sign shall notify the building inspector upon completion of the work to
schedule a final inspection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Six Month Deadline: If the work authorized under a permit has not
been completed within six (6) months after the date of issuance, the permit
shall be null and void.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Variations: It is the intent of this section to permit variations from
the requirements of this chapter only so as to recognize unusual hardships and
make reasonable accommodations for them.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Petition For Variation: A petition for a variation from any
provision(s) of this chapter may be made by any person having a proprietary
interest in the sign for which such variation is requested.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Petition Contents: A petition for a variation shall be filed in
writing with the building inspector and shall be accompanied by such documents
and information as are necessary to clearly exhibit the practical difficulty
for which the variation is necessary, including:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â The names, addresses, and telephone number of the petitioner,
the owner of the property on which the sign is to be erected or affixed, the
owner of the sign, and the person responsible for erecting or affixing the
sign.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â A description of the requested variation, including reference
to the section of this chapter from which relief is requested.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Justification of the requested variation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â The location of the premises on which the sign is to be
erected or affixed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â A site plan of the premises involved, showing accurate
placement thereon of the proposed sign.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â A print of the drawings and specifications describing the
sign to be erected or affixed and method of construction and attachment to the
building or in the ground. Such drawings and specifications shall include
details of dimensions, materials, color, and weight.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (7)Â Â Â The written consent of the owner of the premises on which the
sign is to be erected or affixed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (8)Â Â Â A fee, as determined by ordinance adopted by the village
board from time to time, to be paid at the time of filing of the petition for
variation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Hearing: The planning commission shall hold a public hearing on the
petition for variation within thirty (30) days of receipt of a completed
written application.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Hearing Notice: Notice shall be given of the time, place and
purpose of the public hearing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Required Attendance: The petitioner or its authorized
representatives shall attend the meetings of the board at which the variation
is to be heard.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Decision: Within fifteen (15) working days of the close of the
required public hearing on the variation, unless otherwise agreed to by the
petitioner, the planning commission shall prepare and submit written findings,
and by a majority vote, issue a recommendation to grant, deny, wholly or in
part, or modify said variation. Such recommendation will then be referred to
the village board for final consideration.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Standards: Variations shall only be approved to overcome an
exceptional condition which poses practical difficulty or particular hardship
in such a way as to prevent the display of a sign as intended by this chapter
or to preserve an historic sign with unique visual character. No variation
shall be granted unless the board finds that the petition meets each of the
following standards:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Unique Hardship: The proposed variation will not merely serve as
a convenience to the applicant, but will alleviate some demonstrable and
unusual hardship which would result if the strict letter of the regulations
were carried out and which is not generally applicable to other property within
the village.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Reasonable Return: The property in question cannot yield a
reasonable return if permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by
the regulations in this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Hardship Not Self-Created: The alleged hardship has not been
created by the petitioner nor any person presently having a proprietary
interest in the premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Consistent With Public Welfare: The proposed variation will not
be materially detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to other property
or improvements in the neighborhood. The proposed variation will not by itself
or with other signs contribute to the creation of visual distraction which may
lead to personal injury or a substantial reduction in the value of property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Graphic Effectiveness Demonstrated: The petitioner has
demonstrated that all reasonable efforts (utilizing color, contrast, lettering
legibility, illumination, and graphic composition) have been made to increase
the reading effectiveness of the proposed sign within the normal requirements
of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Consistent With Sign Ordinance Intent: The proposed variation is
in harmony with the intent, purpose, and objectives of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Conditions: Such conditions and restrictions may be imposed on the
premises to be benefited by a variation as may be necessary to comply with the
standards set forth herein, to reduce or minimize any injurious effect of such
variation on other property in the neighborhood, and to implement the general
intent, purpose, and objectives of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Revocation: In any case where a variation has been granted, and
where no work pertinent thereto has been initiated within six (6) months from
the date of approval of the requested variation, then without further action
said variation shall become null and void. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-9-6: GENERAL STANDARDS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Applicable Regulations: In addition to the provisions of this chapter,
all signs must conform to the regulations and standards of all other applicable
chapters of this code.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Commercial Message Location: A sign which displays a commercial message
is permitted only on the premises where the business, profession,
accommodation, commodity, service, entertainment, or other commercial activity
represented on the sign is located.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Obstruction To Doors, Windows, Or Fire Escapes: No sign or advertising
structure shall be erected, relocated or maintained so as to prevent or inhibit
free ingress to, or egress from, any door, window or fire escape, or inhibit
the use of fire protection systems. No sign or advertising structure shall be
attached to a standpipe or fire escape. No sign shall interfere with any
opening required for ventilation.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Glass Limitation: Any glass forming a part of any sign shall be safety
glass or its equivalent as approved by the building inspector, and of such
thickness as required to withstand wind loads.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Movable Sign Parts: No sign or its parts shall be permitted to be
movable or rotating, nor shall any sign have illuminated effects which convey
the illusion of movement.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Items Secured: All manually movable items on a sign, such as covers to
service openings, shall be secured by latches.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Location:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No freestanding sign shall be located within a triangular area
established at the intersection of two (2) streets or a street and a driveway
in which nothing is erected, planted, placed, or allowed to grow so as to limit
or obstruct the sight distance of motorists. Such a triangle shall have legs of
twenty five feet (25') along the rights of way when two (2) streets intersect,
and ten feet (10') along the right of way and driveway when a street and
driveway intersect.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â No sign shall be allowed to encroach upon the public right of way or
public property, except as permitted under section
10-9-14 of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â No sign facing the side or rear lot line of an abutting
residentially zoned lot shall be located within fifty feet (50') of that
residential lot line.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Illuminated Signs: All illuminated signs shall be subject to the
following requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Signs shall be shaded wherever necessary to avoid casting bright
light upon property located in any residential district or upon any public
street or park. Any illuminated sign located on a lot adjacent to or across the
street from any residential district, which sign is visible from such
residential district, shall not be illuminated between the hours of twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Internally illuminated signs shall permit light to shine fully
through only the lettering and graphic elements of the sign. The background for
such lettering and graphics shall be opaque or translucent and shall transmit
light at a level substantially less than that transmitted through the lettering
and graphics.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Traffic Safety: In order to ensure reasonable traffic safety, it shall
be unlawful to erect or maintain any fluttering, undulating, swinging,
rotating, blinking, or flashing sign or attention gathering device. No sign or
advertising structure shall be erected, installed or maintained in such a
manner as to obstruct free and clear vision, or as to distract the attention of
the driver of any vehicle by reason of position, shape, color or lighting
thereof.
No sign or advertising structure shall be erected or maintained in such a
manner as to be likely to interfere with, obstruct the view of, or imitate,
resemble, or be confused with any authorized traffic sign, signal or device.
Accordingly, no sign or advertising structure shall make use of the words
"stop", "go", "slow", "look", "caution", "warning", "danger", or any similar
word, phrase, symbol, or character, or employ any red, yellow, orange, green or
other colored lamp or light, in such a manner as to interfere with, mislead or
confuse traffic.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Sign Area Bonus: The replacement of nonconforming signs shall be
encouraged through a bonus of ten percent (10%) applied to the allowable area
for individual signs if permits for the replacement of all legal nonconforming
signs on a premises are requested and approved prior to January 1, 2001.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Landscape Requirements: The following requirements must be included on
plans that are submitted as a part of a sign permit application:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â For every one square foot of gross sign area, there shall be
provided one square foot of landscape area adjacent to the sign.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The required landscape area shall complement the sign and consist of
plantings such as deciduous or evergreen shrubs, flowering plants, and ground
cover. Sodded or seeded areas shall not qualify as part of the landscaped area.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â All landscape areas shall be mulched to conserve moisture and
minimize weed growth.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â It shall be the duty of the property owner to maintain all such
landscaped areas in a neat and proper manner. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-9-7: COMPUTATIONS:
The following principles shall control the computation of sign area and sign
height:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Computation Of Area Of Individual Signs: The area of a sign face shall
be the total exposed surface within a continuous perimeter composed of a single
rectangle enclosing the extreme limits of characters, lettering, illustrations,
ornamentations, or other figures, together with any material, or color used as
an integral part of the background of the display, or to differentiate the sign
from the background on which it is placed, but not including any supporting
framework, bracing, or decorative fence or wall when such fence or wall
otherwise meets zoning ordinance regulations and is clearly incidental to the
display itself.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Computation Of Area Of Multifaced Signs: The sign area for a sign with
more than one face shall be computed by adding together the area of all sign
faces visible from any one point. When two (2) identical sign faces are placed
back-to-back, so that both faces cannot be viewed from any point at the same
time, and when such sign faces are part of the same sign structure and are not
more than forty two inches (42") apart, the sign area shall be computed by the
measurement of one of the faces.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Computation Of Height: The height of a sign shall be the measurement
from the top of the highest element of the sign to: 1) the average level of the
finished ground surface, exclusive of any filling or mounding, around any sign
located more than twenty five feet (25') from a street right of way; 2) the
established street elevation when the sign is located within twenty five feet
(25') from one street right of way; or 3) the average of all street elevations
when the sign is located within twenty five feet (25') from more than one
street right of way. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-9-8: SIGNS ALLOWED IN RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS:
The following signs shall be permitted in residential zoning districts, and
shall be subject to all applicable standards:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Exempt signs as specified in section
10-9-4 of this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The following temporary signs as specified and regulated in section
10-9-12 of this chapter:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Window signs.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Residential real estate signs.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Political signs.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Garage/yard sale signs.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Construction signs.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â One identification sign, not to exceed fifty (50) square feet in total
surface area for the following uses: religious institution, private or public
school, and facilities constructed and maintained by any taxing district. Such
a sign may be illuminated, shall not exceed ten feet (10') in height, and shall
be set back a minimum of ten feet (10') from any lot line. Two (2) such
identification signs may be erected at entrances to the facility if the
permitted square footage is divided equally into two (2) symmetrical signs,
provided that all other provisions of this chapter are met. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-
2-2001)
10-9-9: SIGNS ALLOWED IN NONRESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS:
The following signs shall be permitted in nonresidential zoning districts, and
shall be subject to all applicable standards:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Freestanding signs shall be permitted, subject to the following
provisions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Number: There shall be a limit of one freestanding sign per lot,
shopping center, shopping center outlot, or unified business center; i.e.,
either one pole sign or one ground sign, which shall be erected for the purpose
of identifying the establishment. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Height: No pole sign shall exceed twenty five feet (25') in height
from grade, and no ground sign shall exceed ten feet (10') in height from
grade. (Ord. 2005-10, 4-4-2005)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Surface Area: No pole or ground sign shall exceed a maximum surface
area of one hundred (100) square feet.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Setback: No freestanding sign shall be located closer than one foot
(1') to any property line.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Ground Clearance: All pole signs shall maintain a ground clearance
of seven feet (7') from the grade to the bottom side of the sign.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Scale And Proportion: A pole or ground sign shall be compatible with
the building or buildings it identifies, and the sign may not be of such a size
that it visually overpowers the building on the site.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Overhang: No pole sign may overhang any part of a structure, parking
or loading space, driveway, or maneuvering aisle.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Illumination: Pole signs may only be internally illuminated. Ground
signs may be internally or externally illuminated.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Tenant Identification Panels: Provision for identifying tenants
within a shopping center or unified business center as part of the permitted
square footage of the sign identifying the shopping center or unified business
center as a whole shall be permitted, provided that there shall be a limit of
two (2) panels or divisions of said sign for such purposes. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-
2-2001)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â Menu Board Signs: In addition to the one permitted freestanding
sign, single faced menu board signs may be permitted for restaurants provided
such signs do not exceed twenty four (24) square feet in surface area or eight
feet (8') in height. Menu board signs shall only be permitted in business
zoning districts, and shall only be internally illuminated. (Ord. 2006-15, 6-5-
2006)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Wall signs shall be permitted, subject to the following provisions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Location: A wall sign shall be erected upon the wall of the building
facade having its principal frontage upon a public street. A wall sign may be
on the building facade other than the principal frontage if it faces a
nonresidential district and the total square footage does not exceed the total
permitted on the principal frontage. In no case shall a wall sign be permitted
that faces the side of any adjoining lot located in a residential zoning
district.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Number: A maximum of one wall sign per establishment shall be
permitted, erected for the purpose of identifying the establishment, subject to
the following provisions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â No wall signs shall be permitted for individual tenants in a
multi-story or multi-tenant office building, unless specifically authorized as
part of an approved PUD at the time of approval of said PUD.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â A corporate logo shall be permitted, but shall count as the
permitted wall sign if it is not incorporated into the wall sign.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Height: The maximum height of a wall sign shall be thirty feet (30')
from grade, or two (2) stories, whichever is less, but in no case shall any
portion of such sign be extended above the roofline.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Surface Area: In the C-2, I, O/I and M zoning districts, the surface
area of a wall sign shall not exceed two (2) square feet per one linear foot of
store frontage, or one hundred fifty (150) square feet, whichever is less. In
the C-1 zoning district the surface area of a wall sign shall not exceed one
and one-half (11/2) square feet per one linear foot of store frontage, or one
hundred (100) square feet, whichever is less.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Projection: No wall sign shall project from the building wall more
than twelve inches (12").
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Shape: The outlined shape and silhouette of a wall sign shall be
simple and compatible with the building facade it is mounted on. Shapes that
disrupt the architectural order and composition of a building facade are not
acceptable.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Scale And Proportion: Wall signs shall be harmonious in scale and
proportion with the building facade they are mounted to and with the
architectural elements of the building, such as windows, cornices, sign
friezes, and bays. A wall sign shall not visually overpower those elements nor
detract from the composition of the building facade.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Overhang: The edges of wall signs shall not overhang the top of bays
or equivalent architectural features of building facades.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Illumination: Wall signs may be internally or wash-lighting
illuminated. Wash lighting shall be accomplished by individual fixtures
recessed in horizontal housing above the sign or by gooseneck lights shielded
by metal shades. Wash-lighting fixtures must be positioned at least three feet
(3') apart and provide even lighting.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â Corner Units: Establishments occupying a corner unit in a building
shall be entitled to have two (2) wall signs, one per wall, each adhering to
all of the other standards in this subsection, provided that:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The primary wall sign shall be deemed to be that which is located
on the side of the unit that has the legal address or the principal entrance
for the general public.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The surface area of the secondary wall sign shall not exceed that
of the primary wall sign.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The location of the secondary wall sign is not adjacent to any
residential dwelling unit or vacant property located in a residential zoning
district.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Both sides of the corner unit face a public street. Signs facing
a service drive, loading dock entrance, or the like shall be prohibited.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â Mansard Roofs: Signs to be erected upon mansard roofs shall be
treated as wall signs, and shall be single-faced. In no case shall the roof or
a portion of the roof itself be illuminated.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Canopy, under-canopy, and marquee signs shall be permitted subject to
the following provisions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Number: There shall be a limit of one canopy or one marquee sign per
lot or per establishment, erected for the purpose of identifying the
establishment, except as otherwise provided for in this subsection, and
provided that no wall signs are directed to the same street frontage.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Location: Canopy/marquee signs may be mounted on the face (vertical
edges only) of the canopy/marquee proper.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Signable Area: The signable area for canopy/marquee signs shall not
extend beyond the canopy/marquee face on which the sign is located. No sign or
portion of a sign shall exceed the borderline of any outer edge of said canopy/
marquee. No sign shall be placed on or over the roof of said canopy/marquee.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Surface Area: The surface area of a canopy/marquee sign shall not
exceed ten (10) square feet, or thirty percent (30%) of the signable wall area
of a canopy/marquee attached to the building front, whichever is greater. A
multiple-bay canopy/marquee, such as drive-up lanes at a financial institution,
may have a sign for each bay, provided that the sum total of all such signs
does not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the surface area of the face of the
canopy/marquee that faces a public street or private drive.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Projection: No canopy/marquee sign shall project more than eight
inches (8") from the canopy/marquee proper.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Ground Clearance: A clearance of eight feet (8') shall be maintained
from the lowest point on the canopy/marquee to the grade or walkway under said
canopy/marquee.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Shape: The outlined shape and silhouette of a canopy/marquee sign
shall be simple and compatible with the building it is mounted on. Shapes that
disrupt the architectural order and composition of a building facade are not
acceptable.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Scale And Proportion: Canopy/marquee signs shall be harmonious in
scale and proportion with the building they are mounted to and with the
architectural elements of the building, such as windows, cornices, sign
friezes, and bays. A canopy/marquee sign shall not visually overpower those
elements nor detract from the composition of the building facade.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Material: Canopy/marquee signs shall be constructed of a
noncombustible type material.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â Illumination: Canopy/marquee signs may only be internally
illuminated.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â Under-Canopy Signs: In addition to the signs permitted in this
subsection, one under-canopy sign shall be permitted to be erected above a
general public entrance into the establishment in order to identify said
establishment, provided that:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â A minimum clearance of eight feet (8') from the walkway is
maintained.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Such signs shall be placed perpendicular to the building, with
the top edge of the sign fastened to the bottom edge of the canopy.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Such signs shall not exceed three (3) square feet in surface
area.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Such signs may only be internally illuminated.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â A limit of one sign per establishment shall be permitted.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Awning signs shall be permitted subject to the following provisions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Location: Individual letters, words, or symbols may be directly
affixed or applied to any surface of an awning, generally by painting,
printing, or weaving. Signs shall not be constructed of or applied to other
material which are then fastened to the awning.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Surface Area: Provided that no wall signs or canopy/marquee signs
are directed to the same street frontage, the surface area of an awning sign
shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the exterior surface area of an
awning. If wall, canopy, or marquee signs are directed to the same street
frontage, the sign letters shall not exceed eight inches (8").
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Ground Clearance: A clearance of eight feet (8') shall be maintained
from the lowest point on the awning to the grade or walkway under said awning.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Illumination: Awning signs shall not be illuminated.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Neon signs shall be permitted subject to the following provisions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Number: There shall be a limit of one neon sign per lot or per
establishment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Surface Area: The surface area of a neon sign shall not exceed eight
(8) square feet. The use of neon tubing or lighting to outline a window or
other portal shall be considered a neon sign and its surface area shall be
measured from the outside edges of the sign.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Illumination: The use of neon tubing as the internal illumination of
a sign shall not be considered a neon sign. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-9-10: PERMITTED EXTRA SIGNS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Criteria: Certain business operations are hereby found to be unique
with respect to their sign requirements and therefore justified to be permitted
to have extra signs, in addition to those specified in section
10-9-9 of this chapter, as specified below. These include:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Gasoline Stations: Gasoline stations are unique because their
primary functions are performed out-of-doors in a manner prescribed by state
statutes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Movie And Live Entertainment Theaters: These theaters are unique
because of the rapid turnover of the name of their entertainment product.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Unified Business Centers: Unified business centers are unique
because of the concentrated development and their centralized ownership
characteristics.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Gasoline Stations: In addition to the signs permitted by other sections
of this chapter, the following signs are permitted uniquely to gasoline
stations:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Two (2) signs per pump island which designate the function of the
island as "self-service" or "full service". Such signs shall not have more than
two (2) faces and shall not exceed three (3) square feet per face.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â One sign displaying the price of fuel sold, with a maximum surface
area of six (6) square feet per fuel type. Such signs shall not have more than
two (2) faces.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â One nonilluminated sign identifying the service performed in each
service bay may be placed over the opening to each bay. Such signs shall have
one face and shall not exceed three (3) square feet each.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â One nonilluminated nameplate identifying the owner or operator is
permitted adjacent to the doorway of the station. Such nameplate shall have one
face and shall not exceed two (2) square feet in area.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Temporary signs advertising batteries, tires, oil or other products
which are directly related to motor vehicles, if the signs are located directly
adjacent to a display of the product(s) described. Such signs may have two (2)
faces, however, their total area shall not exceed fifteen (15) square feet.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â One sign over each pump stand not to exceed twenty four inches (24")
in height with length governed by the length of the pump itself.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â One wall sign on a detached car wash building, provided that it
conforms to all other provisions for wall signs as stated in this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Any signs required by state or federal government.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Movie And Live Entertainment Theaters: In addition to the signs
permitted by other sections of this chapter, the following sign is permitted
uniquely to theaters:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Each theater may have one sign of up to fifty (50) square feet which
will accommodate changeable lettering copy.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A theater's changeable copy sign may have two (2) faces if it is
freestanding, but both faces must be parallel and located no more than two feet
(2') apart.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A theater's changeable copy sign may be located on a marquee,
provided it does not project above or beyond the structural limits of such
marquee.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Otherwise, a theater's changeable copy sign shall conform to the
regulations for the sign type to which it most nearly resembles.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Unified Business Centers: In addition to the signs permitted by other
sections of this chapter, the following additional signs are permitted uniquely
to unified business centers:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A unified business center may have one identification sign for the
center in addition to the signs permitted for each separate business. The
permitted area of such identification sign shall be based upon a ratio of five
(5) square feet per one acre of the site, up to a maximum of one hundred fifty
(150) square feet. Tenant identification panels are permitted as part of the
permitted square footage of the center identification sign. Every unified
business center is permitted an identification sign of eight (8) square feet.
Otherwise, unified business center identification signs shall conform to the
regulations of the sign type to which they most closely resemble.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Unified business centers may have common directory signs to guide
pedestrians to individual businesses on the site. Such signs shall be limited
to one square foot per business listed on the sign. Centers must have a minimum
of ten (10) businesses to qualify to have one directory sign and may have one
additional sign for each ten (10) businesses. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-9-11: UNIFIED BUSINESS CENTER SIGN PLAN:
No permit shall be issued for a sign to be located in a unified business center
until a comprehensive sign plan has been approved for the center and the sign
complies with the provisions thereof.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Unified Business Center Sign Plan Approval: Approval of a unified
business center sign plan shall be at the discretion of the village board,
after review and recommendation of the plan commission, and in accordance with
the criteria noted herein.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Application Contents: In addition to the requirements listed for permit
applications in section
10-9-5 of this chapter, the application for a unified business center sign plan
shall include a format for all signs to be used in the center, including their
maximum size, color, location, illumination details, lettering type, and
mounting details.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Criteria: The criteria used by the village in its review of the
proposed unified business center sign plan shall include:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Scale And Proportion: Every sign shall have good scale and
proportion in its design and in its visual relationship to the other signs,
buildings and surroundings.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Integral Elements: The signs in the plan shall be designed as
integral architectural elements of the building and site to which they
principally relate and shall not appear as incongruous "add- ons" or
intrusions.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Harmony: The colors, materials and lighting of every sign shall be
harmonious with the building and site to which it principally relates.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Effective Composition: The number of graphic elements and letters
shall be held to the minimum needed to convey each sign's message and shall be
composed in proportion to the area of the sign's face.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Compatibility: Each sign shall be compatible with signs within the
proposed unified business center.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Unified Image: The effect of the signs proposed in the plan shall be
the establishment of a unified image for the center. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-9-12: TEMPORARY SIGNS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â General Provisions: The following general provisions shall apply to all
temporary signs:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Permit Required: An application is required for all temporary signs,
except for construction signs, window signs, residential real estate signs, and
political signs. Upon application, the building inspector may issue permits for
temporary signs or displays related to grand openings, special promotions,
going out of business, emergency information, and similar purposes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Duration: Unless a specific duration for a particular temporary sign
type is noted in this section, temporary signs must be removed within fifteen
(15) days from the date of activation. Temporary sign permits may be renewed
twice within a calendar year.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Location: All temporary signs shall be erected only on the property
of the permitted, unless the permitted is a nonprofit organization, and shall
be set back a minimum of five feet (5') from any public right of way.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Illumination: No temporary sign shall be illuminated.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Construction: All temporary signs shall be anchored and supported in
a manner which reasonably prevents the possibility of the signs becoming
hazards to the public health and safety as determined by the building
inspector.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Number: Unless a specific number of signs is listed for a particular
temporary sign type, only one temporary sign shall be permitted per zoning lot
or business.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Temporary Sign Types: Temporary signs shall be limited in use to the
following types of signs:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Freestanding signs shall be permitted subject to the following
provisions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Height: Freestanding signs shall not exceed eight feet (8') in
height from grade.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Material: Freestanding signs shall be constructed of wood, metal,
or other durable material and reasonably supported in or on the ground by
adequate bracing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Surface Area: Freestanding signs shall not exceed thirty two (32)
square feet in surface area per face, and may be single- faced or double-faced.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Banner signs shall be permitted subject to the following provisions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Height: Banner signs shall not exceed the height of the first
floor of the building, or twelve feet (12') from grade, whichever is greater.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Location: Banner signs without a permanent frame shall be affixed
only to building walls. Banner signs with a permanent frame may also be affixed
to poles.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Number: One banner sign shall be permitted per zoning lot or
business. If banner signs are mounted with a permanent frame, additional banner
signs are permitted at a ratio of one sign per seventy five feet (75') of lot
frontage.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Surface Area: Banner signs shall not exceed thirty two (32)
square feet in surface area.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â For sale/for lease/for rent signs shall be permitted subject to the
following provisions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Duration: A permit for a new development identification sign may
be effective for no more than a period of three (3) years, or until ninety
percent (90%) of the units originally for sale or lease have been sold or
leased for the first time, whichever comes first.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Height And Location: Such signs shall be located on the property
advertised for sale, lease or rent and set back a minimum of ten feet (10')
from any property line, with a maximum height of fifteen feet (15').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Removal: The permit applicant shall be required to remove the for
sale/for lease/for rent sign upon expiration of the permit as noted above. To
guarantee removal, an acceptable bond or letter of credit of one hundred
fifteen percent (115%) of the cost of dismantling the sign shall be provided to
the Village at the time of permitting.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Size: The maximum surface area of such a sign shall be one
hundred (100) square feet.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Residential real estate signs shall be permitted subject to the
following provisions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Location: The sign is located upon the property that is offered
for sale, lease, or rent, or has been sold.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Message: The sign content shall be limited to the words "For
Sale", "For Lease", "For Rent", "Open House", or "Sold" or substantially
similar terminology; the name, address, and phone number of the individual
realtor or agent; and the name and logo of the realtor's franchise or brokering
office.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Number: Only one sign shall be permitted for each building,
dwelling unit, or lot.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Removal: The sign shall be removed within seven (7) days after
the real estate closing, or lease or rental transaction is completed, except
that "Open House" signs shall be erected and removed on the day of the event.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Size And Height: The sign shall not exceed six (6) square feet in
surface area. The sign shall not exceed four feet (4') in height from grade.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Window signs shall be permitted subject to the following provisions.
No permit is required for window signs.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Location: Window signs shall be affixed only to the interior
surface of the glass and shall not be located on any windows above the first
floor of the building.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Surface Area: Such signs shall not exceed thirty five percent
(35%) of the window surface area for each windowpane. Signs shall not be
affixed in such a manner that a safety hazard to customers or staff of the
establishment is created by the obstruction of vision. The Chief of Police or
his designee(s) shall be empowered to require the removal or relocation of any
such sign deemed to be a safety hazard.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Beacon or searchlights may be permitted in connection with grand
openings or special events provided:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Direction Of Illumination: Lights must be oriented skyward not
breaking an angle of forty five degrees (45Â°) from the ground.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Duration: The sign(s) may be displayed for no more than fifteen
(15) days. Upon expiration of said fifteen (15) days, the use of said sign
shall be discontinued and no inflatable sign advertising the same business or
establishment shall be reinstalled or reerected for a period of six (6) months.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Number: Only one unit shall be permitted per zoning lot. (Ord.
2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Political signs shall be allowed without permit, provided that:
(Ord. 2016-37, 9-6-2016)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Duration: (Rep. by Ord. 2016-37, 9-6-2016)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Location: The sign shall be placed on private property and set
back from any public right-of-way.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Number: There shall be no limit on the number of political signs
permitted; provided, however, that the quantity of signs displayed does not
create a safety hazard to traffic by distracting motorists or interfering with
safe pedestrian flow, in which case the Chief of Police and/or the Building
Commissioner shall be authorized to require that the number of signs be
reasonably reduced.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Size And Height: In residential districts, the sign shall not
exceed six (6) square feet in surface area. The sign shall not exceed four feet
(4') in height from grade. In nonresidential districts, a freestanding sign
shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet in surface area. Signs that are
not freestanding shall not exceed nine (9) square feet in surface area. The
sign shall not exceed six feet (6') in height from grade. (Ord. 2016-37, 9-6-
2016)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Garage/yard sale signs. See title 4, chapter 12 of this Code. (Ord.
2001-20, 9-10-2001)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Construction signs shall be permitted, provided that:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Duration: Signs shall not be installed prior to issuance of a
building permit and shall be removed within seven (7) days of issuance of an
occupancy permit.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Location: The sign shall be placed on private property on the
premises of the construction and set back a minimum of ten feet (10') from any
public right-of-way.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Number: One sign shall be permitted per zoning lot.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Size And Height: In nonresidential and multi-family zoning
districts, the sign shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet in surface
area. The sign shall not exceed ten feet (10') in height from grade. The same
standard shall apply to religious institutions, private or public schools, golf
courses and facilities constructed and maintained by any taxing district
located in a single-family zoning district. For residential uses in a single-
family zoning district, the sign shall not exceed six (6) square feet in
surface area and shall not exceed four feet (4') in height from grade. (Ord.
2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-9-13: LEGAL NONCONFORMING SIGNS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Signs Existing On Effective Date: For any sign existing in the Village
on April 2, 2001, an application for a sign permit must be submitted to the
Building Commissioner before December 31, 2001. Applications for permits for
existing signs submitted before December 31, 2001, shall be exempt from the
application fees adopted under authority of this title. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-
2001)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Nonconforming Existing Signs, Permits And Terms:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â C-1 Zoning District: A sign in the C-1 District that would be
permitted under this title only with a sign permit, but which was in existence
on April 2, 2001, and which was constructed in accordance with Village
regulations in effect on the date of its construction, but which by reason of
its size, height, location, design or construction is not in conformance with
requirements of this title, shall be issued a nonconforming sign permit if an
application in accordance with this section is timely filed.
Such permit shall allow the sign(s) subject to such permit, which are made
nonconforming by this chapter, to remain in place and to be maintained for a
period ending no later than June 17, 2006, provided that no action is taken
which increases the degree or extent of nonconformity. (Ord. 2005-10, 4-4-2005)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â C-2, O/I, M, And I Zoning Districts: A sign in the C-2, O/I, M and I
Districts that would be permitted under this title only with a sign permit, but
which was in existence on April 2, 2001, and which was constructed in
accordance with village regulations in effect on the date of its construction,
but which by reason of its size, height, location, design or construction is
not in conformance with requirements of this chapter, shall be issued a
nonconforming sign permit if an application in accordance with this section is
timely filed.
Such permit shall allow the sign(s) subject to such permit, which are made
nonconforming by this title, to remain in place and to be maintained for a
period ending no later than April 2, 2007, provided that no action is taken
which increases the degree or extent of nonconformity.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Loss Of Legal Nonconforming Status: A sign loses its legal
nonconforming status if one or more of the following occurs:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Sign Altered: The sign is altered in any way, except for normal
maintenance or repair;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Sign Relocated: The sign is relocated either on the premises or to
another location;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Sign Unsafe: The sign fails to conform to the sections of this
chapter regarding maintenance and operation, and public safety standards;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Sign Damaged: Damage occurs to a sign which requires repairs
exceeding fifty percent (50%) of the replacement value of the sign;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Excessive Maintenance Costs: When any proposed change, repair, or
maintenance would constitute an expense of more than twenty five percent (25%)
of the replacement value of the sign;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â New Occupancy Permit: A change in use occurs which requires a new
occupancy permit for the premises to which a legal nonconforming sign relates.
On the date of occurrence of any of the above, the sign shall be immediately
brought in compliance with this section with a new permit secured, or shall be
removed within thirty (30) days of that date.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Continuing Obligation: Nothing in this section shall relieve the owner
or user of a legal nonconforming sign, or owner of the property on which the
legal nonconforming sign is located, from the provisions of this chapter
regarding safety, maintenance, and repair of signs, provided however, that any
repainting, cleaning and other normal maintenance or repair of the sign or sign
structure shall not modify the sign structure, sign face or message in such a
way which makes the sign more nonconforming.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Historic Signs: Other than safety requirements, the provisions of this
sign code may be waived by the village board for historic signs upon
application for relief by the sign owner or by a village initiated action in
accordance with the following procedure:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Upon filing of said application, the village board may declare a
sign or group of signs to be "historic" by making findings according to the
guidelines below. Notwithstanding safety and maintenance regulations (section
10-9-17 of this chapter), a sign so designated by the village board shall be
deemed to conform with this code.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Signs may be so designated upon the finding that they exhibit unique
characteristics that enhance the streetscape or the historic identity of the
village or neighborhood. Such a sign contributes to the historical or cultural
character of the streetscape and the community at large.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Nothing in this subsection E shall prohibit the owner of a
designated historic sign from removing such sign. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-9-14: SIGNS IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY:
No signs shall be allowed in the public right of way, except for the following:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Permanent Signs: Permanent signs including:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Public signs erected by or on behalf of a governmental body to post
legal notices, identify public property, convey public information, and direct
or regulate pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Informational signs of a public utility regarding its poles, lines,
pipes, or facilities.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Emergency Signs: Emergency warning signs erected by a governmental
agency, a public utility company, or a contractor doing authorized or permitted
work within the public right of way. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-9-15: OFFICIAL, CORPORATE AND ANCILLARY FLAGS:
The display of official, corporate and ancillary flags shall be permitted
subject to the following requirements. These regulations are designed to
control the use of permanent flagpoles or staff upon which the flag is located
and the relationship of the flag to the flagpole or staff. Flags and flagpoles
do not require a specific sign permit. Flags shall be permitted in all zoning
districts subject to the following requirements:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Flags shall be displayed only on permanent flagpoles or staffs designed
and constructed specifically and exclusively for flag display. No official,
corporate or ancillary flag shall be displayed on or attached in any manner to
light poles, sign poles, trees, vehicles, or similar structures or objects. The
temporary display of flags where such requirements are impractical, such as a
parade, holidays, or special events, shall be deemed to be acceptable.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â There shall be a maximum of one flagpole per one hundred feet (100') of
frontage within nonresidential zoning districts.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Flagpoles shall be set back a minimum of ten feet (10') from the
property line.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The display of more than two (2) flags per flagpole shall be
prohibited.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â The height of a flagpole shall be in proportion to the scale of the
building to which the pole relates, and in no case shall it be higher than the
following height limitations:
Â 
Building Height       Pole Height
                      Measured From Grade
Single-family uses    25 feet
All other uses:       Â 
Â 0 - 25 feet         30 feet
Â 25.1 feet or higher 35 feet
Â 
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â The vertical length of a permitted single flag on a flagpole or staff
shall not exceed one-fourth (1/4) of the length of the pole or staff upon which
the flag is hung. Under no circumstances shall any flag exceed fifty (50)
square feet in surface area. The official flag of the United States Of America
is exempt from this size restriction.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Flags shall be displayed in such a manner that no portion of the flag
shall project over any property line or contact any other structure when fully
extended.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Flags shall not be mounted on or over roofs or rooflines in any
fashion. Wall mounted official and corporate flags shall be displayed from
flagpoles or staffs not to exceed ten feet (10') in length. No portion of such
flagpoles or staffs shall extend above the roofline or over a property line.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Official flags shall be maintained in an orderly fashion, and in clean
and good condition. The official flag of the United States Of America shall be
displayed in accordance with the flag code, title 36, USC, chapter 10, as
amended by P.L. 344, 94th congress, approved July 7, 1976, or as amended in the
future. All other official flags should be displayed in accordance with the
same standards of respect and protocol.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Corporate and ancillary flags shall be maintained in an orderly
fashion, and in clean and good condition. Tattered or torn flags shall be
removed or replaced promptly. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-9-16: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
All signs not expressly permitted under this chapter or exempt from regulation
under section
10-9-4 of this chapter, are prohibited in the village of Broadview. Such signs
include, but are not limited to:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Signs containing statements, words or pictures of an obscene or
pornographic nature.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Any sign or advertising device painted or displayed on any vehicle or
trailer parked on the public right of way, public property, or private property
so as to be prominently visible from a public right of way and parked for the
flagrant purpose of providing advertisement of products or directing people to
a business or activity.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Signs nailed, tacked or otherwise affixed to trees or other vegetation
in such a way as to puncture bark.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Handbills, posters, notices, or similar attention gathering devices
posted or affixed on traffic control boxes, signs, lamp poles, utility poles,
or traffic control support.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Projecting signs.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Animated signs.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Any sign attached to a chimney, on a fence or fence type wall,
retaining wall, bench, fence post, refuse enclosure, utility box, storage shed,
bus shelter, satellite dish, antenna, or other accessory structure.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Any exterior string of lights or exposed light bulbs, except those that
are temporarily displayed in conjunction with traditionally accepted civic,
patriotic, or religious holidays for a duration not to exceed sixty (60) days.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Any additional or subsequent sign painted on, attached, or otherwise
affixed to poles or permitted signs.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Portable signs.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Off site signs except as to the areas described in section
10-9-16-1 of this chapter wherein they shall be considered a special use.
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â Inflatable signs.
Â Â Â M.Â Â Â Roof signs.
Â Â Â N.Â Â Â Electronic changeable copy signs except as a special use per section
10-9-16-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 13-02, 1-22-2013)
10-9-16-1: OFF SITE SIGNAGE (BILLBOARDS):
Outdoor advertising (billboards) shall be a special use in nonresidential and
multi-family zoning districts, and shall be subject to all applicable standards
set forth herein:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Outdoor advertising (billboards) as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Location Requirements: Outdoor advertising (billboards) shall be a
special use only:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â In O/I - office/industrial, C-2 - general commercial and multi-
family residential zoning districts; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Outdoor advertising (billboards) shall only be located along the
Eisenhower Expressway (I-290) within the village; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Outdoor advertising (billboards) shall only be located within two
hundred fifty feet (250'), measured perpendicularly from the edge of the right
of way from the roadway from which the outdoor advertising (billboard) sign is
intended to be viewed. Such distance is measured from the center point of the
support post. If the outdoor advertising (billboard) sign has more than one
support, then separation distance is measured from the center of the linear
dimension of the outdoor advertising (billboard) sign.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Distance Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The minimum distance between any outdoor advertising (billboard)
sign and another outdoor advertising (billboard) sign shall be at least five
hundred feet (500'). The separation distance is measured from the center points
of the support posts. If the outdoor advertising (billboard) sign has more than
one support, then separation distance is measured from the center of the linear
dimension of the outdoor advertising (billboard) sign. Outdoor advertising
(billboard) signs located outside the village limits shall be included in
determining the minimum separation distance.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Size And Facing Of Signs:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Each outdoor advertising (billboard) sign shall have only one
sign face per facing (2 advertising faces per structure).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â "V" type signs with a face that protrudes from the opposite face
shall be permitted only where the linear distance between the outer edges of
the two (2) faces of the "V" sign is a maximum of sixteen feet (16'). Each "V"
type sign face shall be visible in only one direction of travel on the same
side of the street.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The maximum display area of outdoor advertising (billboard) signs
shall not exceed the gross surface area of one thousand two hundred (1,200)
square feet per sign face.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Side by side, two-tiered, stacked or decked signs shall be
prohibited. Signs employing movement including, but not limited to, changeable
copy signs, pennants, flags, banners, streamers, propellers, disks and
searchlights shall be prohibited. Flashing, blinking or similar lighting shall
be prohibited.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Height And Area Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The maximum height of an outdoor advertising (billboard) sign
shall be one hundred ten feet (110');
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Height shall be measured from the base of the pole structure to
the top of the outdoor advertising (billboard) sign structure.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Submission Requirements: Applicants must comply with the
requirements of section
10-7-4, "Special Uses", of this title in seeking a special use for outdoor
advertising (billboards).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Variances: A variance relating to outdoor advertising (billboard)
signs may not be granted to permit any of the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â To allow more than one sign face per facing, or more than two (2)
sign faces in total.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â To allow the gross surface area to exceed the dimensions
specified herein.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Maintenance And Nonconformity:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â All signs and sign structures shall be kept in repair and in
proper state of preservation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Any lawfully erected billboard in existence on the effective date
of these regulations may continue to be maintained in-kind and repaired in-kind
in place as long as the size or number thereof is not increased in terms of
faces, length, height, or area. If such sign is damaged, exceeding seventy five
percent (75%) of its replacement value, it shall not be rebuilt; provided,
however, that nothing herein shall prevent maintenance, repainting or posting
of legally established nonconforming signs. (Ord. 11-56, 11-21-2011)
10-9-16-2: ELECTRONIC CHANGEABLE COPY SIGNS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Restrictions: Except as otherwise allowed in this chapter, electronic
changeable copy signs shall be permitted only as a special use, per section
10-7-4 of this title, and be an integral and subordinate portion of a
freestanding sign. The electronic changeable copy sign shall be included in the
calculation of the maximum allowable sign surface area for the freestanding
sign to which it is attached.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Special Use: Electronic changeable copy signs shall be a special use
per section
10-7-4 of this title.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Requirements: Electronic changeable copy signs, other than off site
signage, are limited to one per lot of record. Any permitted electronic
changeable copy signs shall be subject to all of the following requirements and
shall comply with all state and federal laws:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Electronic changeable copy signs shall display static messages only
with no animation, no effects simulating animation, and no video. The messages
shall not dissolve, fade, scroll, travel, flash, spin, revolve, shake or
include any other type of movement or motion.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The interval (the amount of time in between the event) of change of
any such static messages shall be no less than ten (10) seconds, i.e., each
message displayed shall be displayed for a minimum period of ten (10) seconds.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Each transition from one message to a subsequent message shall be
accomplished immediately with no fade, dissolve, scroll or travel and shall be
consistent with all state and federal laws.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Each such sign shall contain automatic dimmers that continuously
monitor the brightness of the display using ambient and direct light photocells
and that maintain a maximum luminance during daylight hours not exceeding the
lower of either the maximum luminance permitted by applicable ordinance,
regulation or special use permit during such hours, or seven thousand five
hundred (7500) lumens per square meter (whichever is lower) and that maintain a
maximum luminance from dusk to sunrise not exceeding the lower of either the
maximum luminance permitted by ordinance, regulation or special use permit
during such hours, or five hundred (500) lumens per square meter (whichever is
lower). Such sign shall also be equipped with a backup system with an almanac
of sunrise and sunset times throughout the year in the unlikely event of a
photocell failure.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The sign shall be programmed or set in a manner such that the
display will turn dark and emit no light in case of a malfunction.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Electronic messages shall not advertise products or services not
available on the lot on which the electronic sign is located, other than
community or public service messages.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â All approved electronic changeable copy signs shall be made
available for emergency notifications as deemed necessary by the chief of
police.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Limited To Conforming Freestanding Sign: An electronic changeable copy
sign may be located only as part of a monument or ground sign which is in
compliance with all applicable requirements of this chapter and other
applicable requirements of law. No electronic changeable copy sign may be
located as part of a nonconforming sign.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Off Site Signage:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Electronic changeable copy signs shall display static messages only
with no animation, no effects simulating animation, and no video. The messages
shall not dissolve, fade, scroll, travel, flash, spin, revolve, shake or
include any other type of movement or motion.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Each transition from one message to a subsequent message shall be
accomplished immediately with no fade, dissolve, scroll or travel and shall be
consistent with all state and federal laws.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The interval (the amount of time in between the event) of change of
any such static messages shall be no less than ten (10) seconds, i.e., each
message displayed shall be displayed for a minimum period of ten (10) seconds.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Each such sign shall contain automatic dimmers that continuously
monitor the brightness of the display using ambient and direct light photocells
and that maintain a maximum luminance during daylight hours not exceeding the
lower of either the maximum luminance permitted by applicable ordinance,
regulation or special use permit during such hours, or seven thousand five
hundred (7500) lumens per square meter (whichever is lower) and that maintain a
maximum luminance from dusk to sunrise not exceeding the lower of either the
maximum luminance permitted by applicable ordinance, regulation or special use
permit during such hours, or five hundred (500) lumens per square meter
(whichever is lower).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Such sign shall also be equipped with a backup system with an
almanac of sunrise and sunset times throughout the year in the event of a
photocell failure.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â All approved electronic changeable copy signs shall be made
available for emergency notifications as deemed necessary by the chief of
police. (Ord. 13-02, 1-22-2013)
10-9-17: MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Maintenance And Repair: Every sign, including, but not limited to,
those signs for which permits are required, shall be maintained in a safe,
presentable, and good structural condition at all times, including replacement
of defective parts, painting, cleaning and other acts required to maintain the
sign, advertising structure, marquee, canopy or awning in its originally
permitted and installed condition in accordance with the following criteria and
with the applicable chapters of this code:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Paint Or Treat: To prevent rust, peeling, flaking, fading or
rotting, the owner of any sign or advertising structure shall, as required,
paint all parts and supports thereof unless the same are galvanized, stainless
or otherwise treated.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Repairs: Broken panels, missing letters, defective illumination,
torn fabric, flaking or peeling paint and other damage to a sign, advertising
structure, marquee, awning, canopy or support structure shall be repaired.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Clean And Sanitary: All signs or advertising structures and the area
surrounding same shall be maintained by the owner thereof in a clean, sanitary
and inoffensive condition, and free and clear of all debris, rubbish and
obnoxious substances, and any related grassed area or landscaping shall be kept
trimmed and in a healthy condition.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Obsolete Or Abandoned Signs: For any sign or advertising structure now
or hereafter existing, which advertises a business, commodity, service,
entertainment, activity, or event which has been discontinued, or is located on
property which has been vacant and unoccupied, the building inspector shall
give written notice requiring removal of the sign to permittee thereof, or if
the permittee cannot be located, to the owner, agent or person having the
beneficial use of the building, structure or premises upon which it is found.
If, after notification, the proper person fails to remove the sign or structure
within sixty (60) days after such notice the building inspector is hereby
authorized to have such sign or advertising structure removed.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Unsafe And Unlawful Signs: For any sign or advertising structure that
is unsafe or insecure, or is a menace to the public, or has been constructed or
erected, or is being maintained in violation of the provisions of this chapter,
the building inspector shall give written notice to the permittee thereof, or
if the permittee cannot be located, to the owner, agent or person having the
beneficial use of the building, structure or premises upon which it is found.
If, after notification, the proper person fails to remove or alter the
structure so as to comply with the standards of this section within thirty (30)
days after such notice, the building inspector is hereby authorized to have
such sign or advertising structure removed. The building inspector may
summarily, and without notice, have removed any sign or advertising structure
which is an immediate safety hazard to persons or property.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Lien To Recover Costs: In the event of failure by any party to
reimburse the village within sixty (60) days for costs incurred for repair or
removal ordered by the building inspector, the village board shall certify the
charges for repair or removal to the village's legal counsel, who will be then
authorized to file a notice of lien in the office of the Cook County recorder
of deeds to foreclose this lien, and to sue the owner of the real estate, or
sign permittee, or their agents, in a civil action to recover the money due for
the foregoing services, plus all expenses and reasonable attorney fees to be
fixed by the court. Included in the expenses recoverable by the village are the
costs of filing the notice of lien, foreclosing said lien, and all litigation
costs, together with all office and legal expense incurred in connection with
the collection of the amount due. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-9-18: VIOLATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any of the following shall be a violation of this chapter and shall be
subject to the enforcement remedies and penalties provided by this section, by
the zoning ordinance, and by state law:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â To install, create, erect, or maintain any sign in a way that is
inconsistent with any plan or permit governing such sign or the zoning lot on
which the sign is located;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â To install, create, erect, or maintain any sign requiring a permit
without first securing such a permit;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â To fail to remove any sign that is installed, created, erected, or
maintained in violation of this chapter, or for which the sign permit has
lapsed.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Each sign installed, created, erected, or maintained in violation of
this chapter shall be considered a separate violation when applying the penalty
portions of this chapter. (Ord. 2001-08A, 4-2-2001)
10-9-19: ENFORCEMENT AND REMEDIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The building commissioner is hereby authorized to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The building commissioner may inspect, at such times as he deems
necessary, each sign or sign structure regulated by this chapter for the
purpose of ascertaining whether the sign is in compliance with this chapter or
any other relevant code, law or ordinance.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The building commissioner shall give notice to the owner or to any
person occupying the property that the sign on his/her premises is in violation
of this chapter.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Remedies of the village for violation of this chapter shall include the
following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Issuing a stop work order for any and all work on any signs in the
same zoning lot;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Seeking an injunction or other order of restraint or abatement that
requires the removal of the sign(s) or the correction of the nonconformity;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Imposing any penalties that can be imposed directly by the village
under the zoning ordinance;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Seeking in court the imposition of any penalties that can be imposed
by such court under the zoning ordinance; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Issuance of a citation for not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day such violation
continues shall be considered a separate violation;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Causing any sign or other advertising structure, which is an
immediate peril to persons or property, to be removed summarily without notice;
and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â All other remedies as provided for or allowed by state law for the
violation of this chapter and the zoning ordinance.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Any sign advertising a defunct business, or an unavailable product or
service, shall be taken down and removed by the owner, agent or person having
control of the premises upon which the sign is located within ninety (90) days
of the business vacating the premises.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Failure to comply with any notice by the building commissioner
concerning violations of this chapter within the time specified shall cause the
building commissioner to authorize removal. Expenses related to removal shall
be the responsibility of the owner of the premises upon which such sign is
located.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The building commissioner shall notify the owner or occupant of the
premises of the total costs incurred for such repair or removal of the sign. If
the owner or occupant fails to pay the costs and expenses of such repair or
removal within thirty (30) days of the notice, then such costs and expenses
shall become a lien against the property.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â All such remedies provided herein shall be cumulative. To the extent
that state law may limit the availability of a particular remedy set forth
herein for a certain violation or a part thereof, such remedy shall remain
available for other violations or other parts of the same violation. (Ord. 13-
02, 1-22-2013)
CHAPTER 10
SOLAR ENERGY INSTALLATIONS
SECTION:
10-10-1: Scope
10-10-2: Purpose
10-10-3: Definitions
10-10-4: Permitted Accessory Use
10-10-5: Principal Uses
10-10-6: Use Table
10-10-7: Restrictions On Solar Energy Systems Limited
10-10-8: Renewable Energy Condition For Certain Permits
10-10-9: Solar Roof Incentives
10-10-1: SCOPE:
This chapter applies to all solar energy installations in the Village of
Broadview. (Ord. CO-2022-1, 2-7-2022)
10-10-2: PURPOSE:
The Village of Broadview has adopted this chapter for the following purposes:
Â Â Â A. Â Â Â Goal: To preserve the health, safety, and welfare of the community by
promoting the safe, effective and efficient use of solar energy systems. The
solar energy standards include:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Encouraging the use of local renewable energy resources, including
appropriate applications for wind, solar, and biomass energy.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Promoting sustainable building design and management practices to
serve current and future generations.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Assisting local businesses to lower financial and regulatory risks
and improve their economic, community, and environmental sustainability.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Efficiently investing in and managing public infrastructure systems
to support development and growth.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Climate Change Goals: The Village has committed to reducing carbon and
other greenhouse gas emissions. Solar energy is an abundant, renewable, and
nonpolluting energy resource and its conversion to electricity or heat reduces
dependence on nonrenewable energy resources and decreases the air and water
pollution that results from the use of conventional energy sources.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Consistency with Regional Plans: The Village is part of a regional
planning process that has developed recommendations for greenhouse gas
reductions, a purpose served by encouraging local solar development.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Infrastructure: Distributed solar photovoltaic systems will enhance the
reliability and power quality of the power grid and make more efficient use of
Village's electric distribution infrastructure.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Local Resource: Solar energy is an underused local energy resource and
encouraging the use of solar energy will diversify the community's energy
supply portfolio and reduce exposure to fiscal risks associated with fossil
fuels.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Improve Competitive Markets: Solar energy systems offer additional
energy choice to consumers and will improve competition in the electricity and
natural gas supply market. (Ord. CO-2022-1, 2-7-2022)
10-10-3: DEFINITIONS:
              A solar energy system co-located on the same parcel of land as agricultural
AGRIVOLTAICS: production, including crop production, grazing, apiaries, or other
              agricultural products or services.
              A solar energy system that is an integral part of a principal or accessory
BUILDING-     building, rather than a separate mechanical device, replacing or substituting
INTEGRATED    for an architectural or structural component of the building. Building-
SOLAR ENERGY  integrated systems include, but are not limited to, photovoltaic or hot water
SYSTEMS:      solar energy systems that are contained within roofing materials, windows,
              skylights, and awnings.
COMMUNITY-    A commercial solar energy system that converts sunlight into electricity for
SCALE SOLAR   the primary purpose of serving electric demands off-site from the facility,
ENERGY        either retail or wholesale. Community-scale systems are principal uses and
SYSTEM:       projects typically cover less than twenty (20) acres.
              A solar energy system that provides retail electric power (or a financial
COMMUNITY     proxy for retail power) to multiple community members or businesses residing
SOLAR GARDEN: or located off-site from the location of the solar energy system. Also
              referred to as shared solar.
GRID-INTERTIE A photovoltaic solar energy system that is connected to an electric circuit
SOLAR ENERGY  served by an electric utility company.
SYSTEM:
              A solar energy system mounted on a rack or pole that rests or is attached to
GROUND-       the ground. Ground-mounted systems can be either accessory or principal uses,
MOUNTED:      however principal uses shall be subject to the application for and the
              approval of a special use permit.
LARGE-SCALE   A commercial solar energy system that converts sunlight into electricity for
SOLAR ENERGY  the primary purpose of wholesale sales of generated electricity. A largescale
SYSTEM:       solar energy system will have a project size greater than twenty (20) acres
              and is the principal land use for the parcel(s) on which it is located.
OFF-GRID      A photovoltaic solar energy system in which the circuits energized by the
SOLAR ENERGY  solar energy system are not electrically connected in any way to electric
SYSTEM:       circuits that are served by an electric utility company.
PASSIVE SOLAR A solar energy system that captures solar light or heat without transforming
ENERGY        it to another form of energy or transferring the energy via a heat exchanger.
SYSTEM:
PHOTOVOLTAIC  A solar energy system that converts solar energy directly into electricity.
SYSTEM:
POLLINATOR-   A solar installation that has been recognized as a pollinator-friendly
FRIENDLY      installation by the Illinois Department of Natural Resources, consistent with
SOLAR:        the Pollinator-Friendly Solar Site Act (525 ILCS 55/1, et seq.)
RENEWABLE     An easement that limits the height or location, or both, of permissible
ENERGY        development on the burdened land in terms of a structure or vegetation, or
EASEMENT,     both, for the purpose of providing access for the benefited land to wind or
SOLAR ENERGY  sunlight passing over the burdened land.
EASEMENT:
ROOF-MOUNTED: A solar energy system mounted on a rack that is fastened to or ballasted on a
              structure roof. Roof-mounted systems are accessory to the principal use.
              The final exterior slope of a roof calculated by the rise over the run,
ROOF PITCH:   typically but not exclusively expressed in twelfths such as 3/12, 9/12, or 12/
              12.
              Unobstructed access to direct sunlight on a lot or building through the entire
SOLAR ACCESS: year, including access across adjacent parcel air rights, for the purpose of
              capturing direct sunlight to operate a solar energy system.
SOLAR         A solar energy system of any size that is installed on a carport structure
CARPORT:      that is accessory to a parking area, and which may include electric vehicle
              supply equipment or energy storage facilities.
              A device, structure or a part of a device or structure for which the primary
SOLAR         purpose is to transform solar radiant energy into thermal, mechanical,
COLLECTOR:    chemical, or electrical energy. The collector does not include frames,
              supports, or mounting hardware.
SOLAR         Capturing and directing the visible light spectrum for use in illuminating
DAYLIGHTING:  interior building spaces in lieu of artificial lighting, usually by adding a
              device or design element to the building envelope.
SOLAR ENERGY: Radiant energy received from the sun that can be collected in the form of heat
              or light by a solar collector.
              A device, array of devices, or structural design feature, the purpose of which
SOLAR ENERGY  is to provide for generation or storage of electricity from sunlight, or the
SYSTEM:       collection, storage and distribution of solar energy for space heating or
              cooling, daylight for interior lighting, or water heating.
              (Also referred to as Solar Air Heat or Solar Furnace) A solar energy system
              that includes a solar collector to provide direct supplemental space heating
SOLAR HOT AIR by heating and re-circulating conditioned building air. The most efficient
SYSTEM:       performance includes a solar collector to preheat air or supplement building
              space heating, typically using a vertically mounted collector on a south-
              facing wall.
              A system that includes a solar collector and a heat exchanger that heats or
SOLAR HOT     preheats water for building heating systems or other hot water needs,
WATER SYSTEM: including residential domestic hot water and hot water for commercial
              processes.
SOLAR         Racking, frames, or other devices that allow the mounting of a solar collector
MOUNTING      onto a roof surface or the ground.
DEVICES:
SOLAR READY   The design and construction of a building that facilitates and makes feasible
DESIGN:       the installation of rooftop solar.
              A view of the sun from a specific point on a lot or building that is not
SOLAR         obscured by any vegetation, building, or object for a minimum of four hours
RESOURCE:     between the hours of nine oâ€™clock (9:00) AM and three oâ€™clock (3:00) PM
              Standard time on all days of the year, and can be measured in annual watts per
              square meter. (Ord. CO-2022-1, 2-7-2022)
Â 
10-10-4: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USE:
Solar energy systems are a permitted accessory use in all zoning districts
where structures of any sort are allowed, subject to certain requirements as
set forth below. Solar carports and associated electric vehicle charging
equipment are a permitted accessory use on surface parking lots in all
districts regardless of the existence of another building. Solar energy systems
that do not meet the following design standards will require a special use
permit. Payment of building or other permit fees may be required prior to
installation.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Height: Solar energy systems must meet the following height
requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Building or roof-mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed the
maximum allowed height in any zoning district. For purposes of height
measurement, solar energy systems other than building-integrated systems shall
be given an equivalent exception to height standards as building mounted
mechanical devices or equipment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Ground or pole-mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed 15 feet
in height when oriented at maximum tilt.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Solar carports in non-residential districts shall not exceed 20 feet
in height.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Setback: Solar energy systems must meet the accessory structure setback
for the zoning district and principal land use associated with the lot on which
the system is located, as allowed below:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Roof or Building-mounted Solar Energy Systems: The collector surface
and mounting devices for roof-mounted solar energy systems shall not extend
beyond the exterior perimeter of the building on which the system is mounted or
built, unless the collector and mounting system has been explicitly engineered
to safely extend beyond the edge, and setback standards are not violated.
Exterior piping for solar hot water systems shall be allowed to extend beyond
the perimeter of the building on a side yard exposure. Solar collectors mounted
on the sides of buildings and serving as awnings are considered to be building-
integrated systems and are regulated as awnings.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Ground-mounted Solar Energy Systems: Ground-mounted solar energy
systems may not extend into the side-yard or rear setback when oriented at
minimum design tilt, except as otherwise allowed for building mechanical
systems.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Visibility: Solar energy systems in residential districts shall be
designed to minimize visual impacts from the public right-of-way, as described
in C.1-3 of this subsection, to the extent that doing so does not affect the
cost or efficacy of the system. Visibility standards do not apply to systems in
non-residential districts, except for historic building or district review as
described in subsection E. below.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Building Integrated Photovoltaic Solar Energy Systems: Building
integrated photovoltaic solar energy systems shall be allowed regardless of
whether the system is visible from the public right-of-way, provided the
building component in which the system is integrated meets all required
setback, land use, or performance standards for the district in which the
building is located.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2. Â Â Â Aesthetic restrictions: Roof-mounted or ground-mounted solar energy
systems shall not be restricted for aesthetic reasons if the system is not
visible from the closest edge of any public right-of-way other than an alley or
if the system meets the following standards:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Roof-mounted systems on pitched roofs that are visible from the
nearest edge of the front right-of-way shall have the same finished pitch as
the roof and be no more than ten (10) inches above the roof.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Roof-mounted systems on flat roofs that are visible from the
nearest edge of the front right-of-way shall not be more than five (5) feet
above the finished roof and are exempt from any rooftop equipment or mechanical
system screening.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Reflectors: All solar energy systems using a reflector to enhance
solar production shall minimize glare from the reflector affecting adjacent or
nearby properties.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Lot Coverage: Ground-mounted systems total collector area shall not
exceed half the building footprint of the principal structure.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1. Â Â Â Ground-mounted systems shall be exempt from lot coverage or
impervious surface standards if the soil under the collector is maintained in
vegetation and not compacted.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Ground-mounted systems shall not count toward accessory structure
limitations.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3. Â Â Â Solar carports in non-residential districts are exempt from lot
coverage limitations.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Compliance with Bulk Regulations: Nothing in this chapter shall be
interpreted to waive or suspend any bulk regulations under the Village's zoning
code, which shall include but not be limited to water-run off restrictions,
impermeable surface restrictions, heights restrictions, or other similar
regulations. Any party may seek a variance from the bulk regulations where
allowed under the Village's zoning code.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Historic Buildings: Solar energy systems on buildings within designated
historic districts or on locally designated historic buildings (exclusive of
State or Federal historic designation) must receive approval of the Village
Board, consistent with the standards for solar energy systems on historically
designated buildings published by the U.S. Department of the Interior.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Plan Approval Required: All solar energy systems requiring a building
permit or other permit from the Village shall provide a site plan for review.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Plan Applications. Plan applications for solar energy systems shall
be accompanied by to-scale horizontal and vertical (elevation) drawings. The
drawings must show the location of the system on the building or on the
property for a ground-mounted system, including the property lines.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Plan Approvals. Applications that meet the design requirements of
this chapter shall be granted administrative approval by the zoning official
and shall not require planning commission review. Plan approval does not
indicate compliance with applicable building codes or electric codes.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Approved Solar Components: Electric solar energy system components must
have a UL or equivalent listing and solar hot water systems must have an SRCC
rating.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Compliance with Building Codes: All solar energy systems shall meet
approval of local building code officials, consistent with the State of
Illinois building code laws, and solar thermal systems shall comply with HVAC-
related requirements of applicable energy laws.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Compliance with the National Electric Code: All photovoltaic systems
shall comply with the National Electric Code, 2014 edition.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Compliance with the State Plumbing Code: Solar thermal systems shall
comply with applicable Illinois Plumbing Code requirements.
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â Utility Notification: All grid-intertie solar energy systems shall
comply with the interconnection requirements of the electric utility. Off-grid
systems are exempt from this requirement. (Ord. CO-2022-1, 2-7-2022)
10-10-5: PRINCIPAL USES:
The Village encourages the development of commercial or utility scale solar
energy systems where such systems present few land use conflicts with current
and future development patterns. Ground-mounted solar energy systems that are
the principal use on the development lot or lots are special uses in selected
districts as detailed herein. Payment of building or other permit fees may be
required prior to installation.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Principal Use General Standards
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Site Design
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Setbacks: Community- and large-scale solar arrays must meet the
following setbacks:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Property line setback for buildings or structures in the
district in which the system is located, except as other determined in
subsection A(1)(a)(v) below.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Roadway setback of one hundred and fifty (150) feet from the
ROW centerline of State highways and CSAHs, one hundred (100) feet for other
roads, except as other determined in subsection A(1)(a)(v) below.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Housing unit setback of one hundred and fifty (150) feet from
any existing dwelling unit, except as other determined in subsection A(1)(a)(v)
below.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Setback distance should be measured from the edge of the
solar energy system array, excluding security fencing, screening, or berm.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â All setbacks can be reduced by fifty percent (50%) if the
array is fully screened from the setback point of measurement.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Screening: Community- and large-scale solar shall be screened
from existing residential dwellings.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â A screening plan shall be submitted that identifies the type
and extent of screening.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Screening shall be consistent with the Village's screening
ordinance or standards typically applied for other land uses requiring
screening.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Screening shall not be required along property lines within
the same zoning district, except where the adjoining lot has an existing
residential use.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â The Village may require screening where it determines there
is a clear community interest in maintaining a viewshed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Ground cover and buffer areas: The following provisions shall
apply to the clearing of existing vegetation and establishment of vegetated
ground cover. Additional site-specific conditions may apply as required by the
Village.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Large-scale removal of mature trees on the site is
discouraged. The Village may set additional restrictions on tree clearing or
require mitigation for cleared trees.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â The project design shall include the installation and
establishment of ground cover meeting the pollinator-friendly standard
consistent with the Pollinator-Friendly Solar Site Act (525 ILCS 55/1, et seq.)
or successor statutes and guidance as set by the Illinois Department of Natural
Resources.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â The applicant shall submit a vegetation management plan
adhering to guidance set forth by the pollinator friendly scorecard published
by the Illinois Department of Natural Resources.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Pollinator-friendly standards shall be maintained on the site
for the duration of operation, until the site is decommissioned.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â The Village may require submittal of an inspection fee at the
time of the initial fee at the time of the initial permit application to
support ongoing inspection of the pollinator-friendly ground cover.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â The applicant shall submit a financial guarantee in the form
of a letter of credit, cash deposit or bond in favor of the Village of
Broadview equal to one hundred and twenty-five (125) percent of the costs to
meet the pollinator friendly standard. The financial guarantee shall remain in
effect until vegetation is sufficiently established.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (7)Â Â Â Plant material must not have been treated with systemic
insecticides, particularly neonicontinoids.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Foundations: A qualified engineer shall certify that the
foundation and design of the solar panel racking and support is within accepted
professional standards, given local soil and climate conditions.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Power and communication lines: Power and communication lines
running between banks of solar panels and to nearby electric substations or
interconnections with buildings shall be buried underground. Exemptions may be
granted by the Village in instances where shallow bedrock, water courses, or
other elements of the natural landscape interfere with the ability to bury
lines, or distance makes undergrounding infeasible, at the discretion of the
zoning administrator.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Fencing: Perimeter fencing for the site shall not include barbed
wire or woven wire designs, and shall preferably use wildlife-friendly fencing
standards that include clearance at the bottom. Alternative fencing can be used
if the site is incorporating agrivoltaics.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Stormwater and NPDES: Solar farms are subject to the Village's
stormwater management and erosion and sediment control provisions and NPDES
permit requirements. Solar collectors shall not be considered impervious
surfaces if the project complies with ground cover standards, as described in
subsection A(1)(c) herein.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Other standards and codes: All solar farms shall be in compliance
with all applicable local, state and federal regulatory codes, including but
not limited to the Illinois Energy Conservation Code, Illinois Accessibility
Code, the Village-adopted International Building Code, the Illinois Plumbing
Code, as amended; and the National Electric Code, as amended.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4. Â Â Â Site Plan Required: The applicant shall submit a detailed site plan
for both existing and proposed conditions, showing locations of all solar
arrays, other structures, property lines, rights-of-way, service roads,
floodplains, wetlands, and other protected natural resources, topography,
electric equipment, and all other characteristics requested by the Village. The
site plan should show all zoning districts and overlay districts.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5. Â Â Â Aviation Protection: For solar farms located within 500 feet of an
airport or within approach zones of an airport, the applicant must complete and
provide the results of a glare analysis through a qualitative analysis of
potential impact, field test demonstration, or geometric analysis of ocular
impact in consultation with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) Office of
Airports, consistent with the Interim Policy, FAA Review of Solar Energy
Projects on Federally Obligated Airports, or most recent version adopted by the
FAA.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6. Â Â Â Agricultural Protection: Solar farms must comply with site
assessment or soil identification standards that are intended to identify
agricultural soils, including submitting an Agricultural Impact Mitigation Plan
("AIMP") to the Village and the Illinois Department Agriculture, as required by
the Renewable Energy Facilities Agricultural Impact Mitigation Act (505 ILCS
147/1, et seq.), or successor statute. The Village may require mitigation for
use of prime soils for solar array placement, including the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Demonstrating co-location of agricultural uses (agrivoltaics) on
the project site.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Using an interim use or time-limited CUP that allows the site to
be returned to agriculture at the end of life of the solar installation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Placing agricultural conservation easements on an equivalent
number of prime soil acres adjacent to or surrounding the project site.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Locating the project in wellhead protection area for the purpose
of removing agricultural uses from high-risk recharge areas.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7. Â Â Â Decommissioning: A decommissioning plan shall be prepared and
submitted as part of the Agricultural Impact Mitigation Plan in accordance with
the Renewable Energy Facilities Agricultural Impact Mitigation Act (505 ILCS
147/1, et seq.).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Decommissioning of the system must occur in the event the project
is not in use for twelve (12) consecutive months.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b. Â Â Â The plan shall include provisions for removal of all structures
and foundations, restoration of soil and vegetation, and consistency with all
standards of the AIMP.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Disposal of structures and/or foundations shall meet the
provisions of the Village's solid waste regulations.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Financial assurances shall be provided to the Village consistent
with the Illinois Department of Agriculture's standard agricultural impact
mitigation agreement.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Community-Scale Solar: The Village permits the development of
community-scale solar, subject to the following standards and requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1. Â Â Â Rooftop gardens permitted: Rooftop community systems are permitted
in all districts where buildings are permitted.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Community-scale uses: Ground-mounted community solar energy systems
must cover no more than ten (10) acres (project boundaries), and are a
permitted use in industrial and agricultural districts, and permitted with
standards or special in all other non-residential districts. Ground-mounted
solar developments covering more than ten (10) acres shall be considered large-
scale solar.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3. Â Â Â Dimensional standards: All structures must comply with setback and
height standards for the district in which the system is located.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Other standards: Ground-mounted systems must comply with all
required standards for structures in the district in which the system is
located.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Large-Scale Solar: Ground-mounted solar energy arrays that are the
principal use on the lot, designed for providing energy to off-site uses or
export to the wholesale market, are permitted under the following standards:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Special use permit: Solar farms are special uses. (Ord. CO-2022-1,
2-7-2022)
10-10-6: USE TABLE:
Â 
                                                                 Special
Use Type    Residential Mixed Use Business Industrial Floodplain (Conservation,
                                                                 Historic
                                                                 Districts)
Large-                                     S          S          S
scale solar
Community
-scale      S           S         S        S          S          S
solar
Accessory
use ground- S           S         S        S          S          S
mounted
solar
Rooftop     P           P         P        P          P          S
solar
P = Permitted           S = Special Use               Blank Cell = Prohibited
Â 
(Ord. CO-2022-1, 2-7-2022)
10-10-7: RESTRICTIONS ON SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS LIMITED:
Consistent with the Homeowners' Energy Policy Statement Act (765 ILCS 165/1, et
seq.), no homeowners' agreement, covenant, common interest community, or other
contract between multiple property owners within a subdivision of the Village
shall prohibit or restrict homeowners from installing solar energy systems. No
energy policy statement enacted by a common interest community shall be more
restrictive than the Village's solar energy standards. (Ord. CO-2022-1, 2-7-
2022)
10-10-8: RENEWABLE ENERGY CONDITION FOR CERTAIN PERMITS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Condition for Planned Unit Development (PUD) Approval: The Village may
require on-site renewable energy systems, zero-net-energy (ZNE) or zero-net-
carbon (ZNC) building designs, solarsynchronized electric vehicle charging or
other clean energy systems as a condition for approval of a PUD permit to
mitigate for the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Impacts on the performance of the electric distribution system.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Increased local emissions of greenhouse gases associated with the
proposal.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Need for electric vehicle charging infrastructure to offset
transportation-related emissions for trips generated by the new development.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Other impacts of the proposed development that are inconsistent with
this chapter and the Village's Comprehensive Plan, if one is adopted.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Condition for Special Use Permit: The Village may require on-site
renewable energy systems or zero net energy construction as a condition for a
rezoning or a special use permit. (Ord. CO-2022-1, 2-7-2022)
10-10-9: SOLAR ROOF INCENTIVES:
The Village encourages incorporating on-site renewable energy system or zero
net energy construction for new construction and redevelopment. The Village may
require on-site renewable energy or zero-net energy construction when issuing a
special use permit where the project has access to local energy resources, in
order to ensure consistency with Village's Climate Action Plan.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Density Bonus: Any application for subdivision of land in any zoning
districts that will allow the development of at least four (4) new lots of
record may be allowed to increase the maximum number of lots by ten percent
(10%) or one (1) lot, whichever is greater, provided all building and
wastewater setbacks can be met with the increased density, if the applicant
enters into a development agreement guaranteeing at least three (3) kilowatts
of PV for each new residence, new building, or new development that has a solar
resource.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Solar-Ready Buildings: The Village encourages builders to use solar-
ready design in buildings. Buildings that have on file a completed U.S. EPA
Renewable Energy Ready Home Solar Photovoltaic Checklist (or other approved
solar-ready standard) and associated documentation will be certified as a
Village of Broadview solar ready home. This designation will be included in the
home's permit history.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Solar Access Variance: When a developer or applicant requests a
variance from the Village's subdivision solar access standards, the zoning
administrator may grant an administrative exception from the solar access
standards provided the applicant meets the conditions of 1 and 2 below:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Solar Access Lots Identified: At least twenty-five percent (25%) of
the lots are identified as solar development lots.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Covenant Assigned: Solar access lots are assigned a covenant that
homes built upon these lots must include a solar energy system. Photovoltaic
systems must be at least three (3) KW in capacity.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Additional Fees Waived: The Village will waive any additional fees
charged by the Village for filing of the covenant. The developer or applicant
shall be responsible for all other fees and filing requirements to record this
covenant with the Cook County Clerk's office or any other applicable offices.
(Ord. CO-2022-1, 2-7-2022)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Authority To Make Rules And Regulations
11-1-2: Conformance With Official Plan
11-1-3: Fees
11-1-1: AUTHORITY TO MAKE RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Planning Commission 1  shall make such rules and regulations pertaining to
subdivisions for the requirements for approval of subdivisions in conformity
with the provisions of State law 2 . Such regulations shall be kept on file in
the office of the Village Clerk. (1987 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See Title 2, Chapter 5 of this Code.
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/11-12-4 through 5/11-12-12.
11-1-2: CONFORMANCE WITH OFFICIAL PLAN:
No map or plat of any subdivision presented for record affecting land within
the corporate limits and in contiguous territory outside of the Village and
distant not more than one and one-half (11/2) miles from such limits, and not
included in any city, village or incorporated town, after the adoption of the
Official Plan as provided in Section 2-5-4 of this Code, shall be entitled to
record or shall be valid unless the subdivision thereon shown shall provide for
streets, alleys and public grounds in conformity with any requirements
applicable thereto, on such Official Plan. (1987 Code)
11-1-3: FEES:
Upon the filing of a preliminary plat and final plat at the office of the
Planning Commission, a fee of fifteen dollars ($15.00) for each plat shall be
paid to the Collector for processing charges. All fees shall be placed in the
General Fund. (1987 Code)
TITLE 12
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD CONTROL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Purpose
12-1-2: Definitions
12-1-3: How To Use This Chapter
12-1-4: Duties Of The Enforcement Official(s)
12-1-5: Base Flood Elevation
12-1-6: Occupation And Use Of Flood Fringe Areas
12-1-7: Occupation And Use Of Designated Floodways
12-1-8: Occupation And Use Of SFHAs Where Floodways Are Not Identified
12-1-9: Permitting Requirements Applicable To All Floodplain Areas
12-1-10: Other Development Requirements
12-1-11: Variances
12-1-12: Disclaimer Of Liability
12-1-13: Penalty
12-1-14: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
12-1-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the village by
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8, and 5/
11-31-2 (1994). The purpose of this chapter is to maintain the village's
eligibility in the national flood insurance program; to minimize potential
losses due to periodic flooding including loss of life, loss of property,
health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety and general welfare; and to preserve and enhance the quality of surface
waters, conserve economic and natural values and provide for the wise
utilization of water and related land resources. This chapter is adopted in
order to accomplish the following specific purposes:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â To meet the requirements of 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/18g
rivers, lakes and streams act;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â To assure that new development does not increase the flood or drainage
hazards to others, or create unstable conditions susceptible to erosion;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â To protect human life and health from the hazards of flooding;
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood damaged public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and
relief operations; and
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â To make federally subsidized flood insurance available for property in
the village by fulfilling the requirements of the national flood insurance
program;
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â To comply with the rules and regulations of the national flood
insurance program codified as 44 CFR 59-79, as amended;
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â To protect, conserve, and promote the orderly development of land and
water resources;
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and storm water impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development. (Ord. 2005-11, 5-16-2005)
12-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are adopted:
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A structure which is on the same parcel of property as the
principal structure to be insured and the use of which is incidental to the use
of the principal structure.
ACT: "An act in relation to the regulation of the rivers, lakes and streams of
the state of Illinois", 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5 et seq.
APPLICANT: Any person, firm, corporation or agency which submits an
application.
APPROPRIATE USE: Only uses of the designated floodway that are permissible and
will be considered for permit issuance. The only uses that will be allowed are
as specified in subsection 12-1-7D of this chapter.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year
frequency flood event. Application of the base flood elevation at any location
is as defined in section
12-1-5 of this chapter.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation in relation to mean sea level of the
crest of the base flood.
BUILDING: A structure that is principally aboveground and is enclosed by walls
and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a manufactured
home, mobile home or a prefabricated building. This term also includes
recreational vehicles and travel trailers to be installed on a site for more
than one hundred eighty (180) days, unless fully licensed and ready for highway
use.
CHANNEL: Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or artificial
depression, ponded area, flowage, slough, ditch, conduit, culvert, gully,
ravine, wash, or natural or manmade drainageway, which has a definite bed and
banks or shoreline, in or into which surface or ground water flows, either
perennially or intermittently.
CHANNEL MODIFICATION: Alteration of a channel by changing the physical
dimensions or materials of its bed or banks. Channel modification includes
damming, riprapping (or other armoring), widening, deepening, straightening,
relocating, lining and significant removal of native vegetation from the bottom
or banks. Channel modification does not include the clearing of dead or dying
vegetation, debris, or trash from the channel. Channelization is a severe form
of channel modification involving a significant change in the channel cross
section and typically involving relocation of the existing channel (e.g.,
straightening).
COMPENSATORY STORAGE: An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage within the SFHA used to balance the loss of natural flood
storage capacity when artificial fill or structures are placed within the
floodplain. The uncompensated loss of natural floodplain storage can increase
off site floodwater elevations and flows.
CONDITIONAL APPROVAL OF A DESIGNATED FLOODWAY MAP CHANGE: Preconstruction
approval by IDNR/OWR and FEMA of a proposed change to the floodway map. This
preconstruction approval, pursuant to this part, gives assurances to the
property owner that once an appropriate use is constructed according to
permitted plans, the floodway map can be changed, as previously agreed, upon
review and acceptance of as built plans.
CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR): A letter which indicates that FEMA
will revise base flood elevations, flood insurance rate zones, flood boundaries
or floodway as shown on an effective flood hazard boundary map or flood
insurance rate map, once the as built plans are submitted and approved.
CONTROL STRUCTURE: A structure designed to control the rate of flow that passes
through the structure, given a specific upstream and downstream water surface
elevation.
CRITICAL FACILITY: Any public or private facility which, if flooded, would
create an added dimension to the disaster or would increase the hazard to life
and health. Examples are public buildings, emergency operations and
communication centers, etc.
DAM: All obstructions, wall embankments or barriers, together with their
abutments and appurtenant works, if any, constructed for the purpose of storing
or diverting water or creating a pool. Underground water storage tanks are not
included.
DESIGNATED FLOODWAY: The channel, including on stream lakes, and that portion
of the floodplain adjacent to a stream or watercourse as designated by IDNR/
OWR, which is needed to store and convey the existing 100-year frequency flood
discharge with no more than a 0.1 foot increase in stage due to the loss of
flood conveyance or storage, and no more than a ten percent (10%) increase in
velocities.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The floodways are designated for Addison Creek and Salt Creek on the
flood insurance rate map prepared by FEMA on map number 17031C dated August 19,
2008. When two (2) floodway maps exist for a waterway, the more restrictive
floodway limit shall prevail.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The floodways for those parts of unincorporated Cook County that are
within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village that may be annexed
into the village are designated on the flood insurance rate map prepared by
FEMA on map number 17031C dated August 19, 2008.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â To locate the designated floodway boundary on any site, the designated
floodway boundary should be scaled off the designated floodway map and located
on a site plan, using reference marks common to both maps. Where interpretation
is needed to determine the exact location of the designated floodway boundary,
IDNR/OWR should be contacted for the interpretation.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to real estate, including:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Construction, reconstruction, repair, or placement of a building or any
addition to a building.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a
site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days. If the travel trailer or
recreational vehicle is on site for less than one hundred eighty (180) days, it
must be fully licensed and ready for highway use.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Drilling, mining, installing utilities, construction of roads, bridges,
or similar projects.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Demolition of a structure or redevelopment of a site.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Clearing of land as an adjunct of construction.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Construction or erection of levees, walls, fences, dams, or culverts;
channel modification; filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving, or other
nonagricultural alterations of the ground surface; storage of materials;
deposit of solid or liquid waste.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Any other activity of man that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface water, including extensive vegetation removal.
Development does not include routine maintenance of existing buildings and
facilities such as reroofing or resurfacing of roads when there is no increase
in elevation, or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do
not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
ELEVATION CERTIFICATES: A form published by FEMA that is used to certify the
elevation to which a building has been elevated.
EROSION: The general process whereby soils are moved by flowing water or wave
action.
EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS: Organizations which are exempt from this chapter per
Illinois Compiled Statutes (ILCS) including state, federal or local units of
government.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) has been completed before April 1,
1990.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEMA: Federal emergency management agency and its regulations at 44 CFR 59-79
revised as of October 1, 2001. This incorporation does not include any later
editions or amendments.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from overflow of inland or tidal waves, or the unusual
and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD FREQUENCY: A period of years, based on a statistical analysis, during
which a flood of a stated magnitude may be expected to be equaled or exceeded.
FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the designated
floodway.
FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP: An official map of a community where the boundaries
of the flood having special hazard areas have been designated as zone A.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAPS (FIRM): A map prepared by FEMA that depicts the
special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a community. This map includes
insurance rate zones and floodplains and may or may not depict floodways.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The elevation of the base flood or 100-year
frequency flood plus one foot (1') of freeboard at any given location in the
SFHA.
FLOODPLAIN: That land typically adjacent to a body of water with ground surface
elevations at or below the base flood or the 100-year frequency flood
elevation. Floodplains may also include detached special flood hazard areas,
ponding areas, etc. The floodplain is also known as the special flood hazard
area (SFHA).
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The floodplains are those lands within the jurisdiction of the village
that are subject to inundation by the base flood or 100-year frequency flood.
The SFHAs of the village for Addison Creek and Salt Creek are on the flood
insurance rate map prepared by FEMA on map number 17031C dated August 19, 2008.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The SFHAs of those parts of unincorporated Cook County that are within
the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village or that may be annexed into
the village are designated on the flood insurance rate map prepared by FEMA on
map number 17031C dated August 19, 2008.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE: A form published by FEMA that is used to certify
that a building has been designed and constructed to be structurally dry
floodproofed to the flood protection elevation.
FREEBOARD: An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, future watershed
development, unknown localized conditions, wave actions and unpredictable
effects such as those caused by ice or debris jams.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places or
preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the national register;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily determined
by the secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by the
Illinois historic preservation agency;
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that has
been certified by the Illinois historic preservation agency.
HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC CALCULATIONS: Engineering analysis which determines
expected flood flows and flood elevations based on land characteristics and
rainfall events.
IDNR/OWR: Illinois department of natural resources, office of water resources.
LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA): Official determination by FEMA that a specific
structure is not in a 100-year flood zone; amends the effective flood hazard
boundary map (FHBM) or FIRM.
LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR): Letter that revises base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevations, flood insurance rate zones, flood boundaries or
floodways as shown on an effective FHBM or FIRM.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable
nonelevation design requirements.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designated for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
manufactured homes also includes park trailers, travel trailers and other
similar vehicles placed on site for more than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days. The term "manufactured home" does not include a "recreational
vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MITIGATION: Includes those measures necessary to minimize the negative effects
which floodplain development activities might have on the public health, safety
and welfare. Examples of mitigation include compensatory storage, soil erosion
and sedimentation control, and channel restoration. Mitigation may also include
those activities taken to reduce a structure's susceptibility to flooding.
NGVD NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM OF 1929: Reference surface set by the
national geodetic survey deduced from a continental adjustment of all existing
adjustments in 1929.
NATURAL: When used in reference to channels means those channels formed by the
existing surface topography of the earth prior to changes made by man. A
natural stream tends to follow a meandering path; its floodplain is not
constrained by levees; the area near the bank has not been cleared, mowed or
cultivated; the stream flows over soil and geologic materials typical of the
area with no substantial alteration of the course or cross section of the
stream caused by filling or excavating. A modified channel may regain some
natural characteristics over time as the channel meanders and vegetation is
reestablished. Similarly, a modified channel may be restored to more natural
conditions by man through regrading and revegetation.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: Structures for which the start of construction commenced on
or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by a
community and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: Manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) has been completed on or after April
1, 1990.
ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK (OHWM): The point on the bank or shore up to which the
presence and action of surface water is so continuous so as to leave a
distinctive mark such as by erosion, destruction or prevention of terrestrial
vegetation, predominance of aquatic vegetation or other easily recognized
characteristics.
PUBLIC BODIES OF WATERS: All open public streams and lakes capable of being
navigated by watercraft, in whole or in part, for commercial uses and purposes,
and all lakes, rivers, and streams which in their natural condition were
capable of being improved and made navigable, or that are connected with or
discharge their waters into navigable lakes or rivers within, or upon the
borders of the state of Illinois, together with all bayous, sloughs,
backwaters, and submerged lands that are open to the main channel or body of
water directly accessible thereto.
PUBLIC FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT: A flood control project which will be operated
and maintained by a public agency to reduce flood damages to existing buildings
and structures which includes a hydrologic and hydraulic study of the existing
and proposed conditions of the watershed. Nothing in this definition shall
preclude the design, engineering, construction or financing, in whole or in
part, of a flood control project by persons or parties who are not public
agencies.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicle which is:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Built on a single chassis;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR: A land surveyor registered in the state of Illinois,
under the Illinois land surveyors act 1 .
REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER: An engineer registered in the state of
Illinois, under the Illinois professional engineering practice act 2 .
REPAIR, REMODELING OR MAINTENANCE: Development activities which do not result
in any increases in the outside dimensions of a building or any changes to the
dimensions of a structure.
REPETITIVE LOSS: Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
separate occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds twenty
five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
RETENTION/DETENTION FACILITY: A retention facility stores storm water runoff
without a gravity release. A detention facility provides for storage of storm
water runoff and controlled release of this runoff during and after a flood or
storm.
RIVERINE SFHA: Any SFHA subject to flooding from a river, creek, intermittent
stream, ditch, on stream lake system or any other identified channel. This term
does not include areas subject to flooding from lakes, ponding areas, areas of
sheet flow, or other areas not subject to overbank flooding.
RUNOFF: The water derived from melting snow or rain falling on the land
surface, flowing over the surface of the ground or collected in channels or
conduits.
SEDIMENTATION: The processes that deposit soil, debris, and other materials
either on other ground surfaces or in bodies of water or watercourses.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): Any base flood area subject to flooding from
a river, creek, intermittent stream, ditch, or any other identified channel or
ponding and shown on a flood hazard boundary map or flood insurance rate map as
zone A, AO, A1-30, AE, A99, AH, VO, V30, VE, V, M, E, or D.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement, and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was
within one hundred eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
STRUCTURE: The results of a manmade change to the land constructed on or below
the ground, including the construction, reconstruction or placement of a
building or any addition to a building; installing a manufactured home on a
site; preparing a site for a manufactured home or installing a travel trailer
on a site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days unless they are fully
licensed and ready for highway use.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred, regardless of the actual repair work performed. Volunteer
labor and materials must be included in this determination. Damage of less than
fifty percent (50%) of the fair market value will be applied to the repetitive
loss calculations.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: A. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before the "start of construction"
of the improvement.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â For the purposes of this definition "substantial improvement" is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the building.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The term does not, however, include either:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing
state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any alteration of a "historic structure" listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places,
provided that the alteration will not preclude the structure's continued
designation as a historic structure.
TRANSITION SECTION: Reaches of the stream or floodway where water flows from a
narrow cross section to a wide cross section or vice versa.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance is presumed to be in violation until such time
as that documentation is provided. (Ord. 2005-11, 5-16-2005; amd. Ord. 2008-15,
6-16-2008)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 330/1 et seq.
2 2. 225 ILCS 325/1 et seq.
12-1-3: HOW TO USE THIS CHAPTER:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The building commissioner shall be responsible for fulfilling all of
the duties listed in section
12-1-4 of this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â To fulfill those duties, the building commissioner first should use the
criteria listed in section
12-1-5, "Base Flood Elevation", of this chapter to determine whether the
development site is located within a floodplain.
Once it has been determined that a site is located within a floodplain, the
building commissioner must determine whether the development site is within a
flood fringe, a designated floodway, or within an SFHA or floodplain for which
no floodway has been identified.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â If the site is within a flood fringe, the building commissioner
shall require that the minimum requirements of section
12-1-6 of this chapter be met.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â If the site is within a floodway, the building commissioner shall
require that the minimum requirements of section
12-1-7 of this chapter be met.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â If the site is located within an SFHA or floodplain for which no
detailed study has been completed and approved, the building commissioner shall
require that the minimum requirements of section
12-1-8 of this chapter be met.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â In addition, the general requirements of section
12-1-9 of this chapter shall be met for all developments meeting the
requirements of section
12-1-6,
12-1-7, or
12-1-8 of this chapter.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The building commissioner shall assure that all subdivision proposals
shall meet the requirements of section
12-1-10 of this chapter.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â If a variance is to be granted for a proposal, the building
commissioner shall review the requirements of section
12-1-11 of this chapter to make sure they are met. In addition, the building
commissioner shall complete all notification requirements.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â In order to assure that property owners obtain permits as required in
this chapter, the building commissioner may take any and all actions as
outlined in section
12-1-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 2005-11, 5-16-2005)
12-1-4: DUTIES OF THE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL(S):
The building commissioner shall be responsible for the general administration
and enforcement of this chapter which shall include the following:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Determining The Floodplain Designation: Check all new development sites
to determine whether they are in a special flood hazard area (SFHA). If they
are in an SFHA, determine whether they are in a floodway, flood fringe or in a
floodplain for which a detailed study has not been conducted and which drains
more than one square mile. Check whether the development is potentially within
an extended SFHA (with a drainage area less than 1 square mile), indicating
that the development would have adverse impacts regarding storage, conveyance,
or inundation which would be the basis for the applicant being required to
delineate the floodplain and floodway and be subject to the remaining sections
of this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Professional Engineer Review: If the development site is within a
floodway or in a floodplain for which a detailed study has not been conducted
and which drains more than one square mile, the permit shall be referred to a
registered professional engineer under the employ or contract of the village
for review to ensure that the development meets section
12-1-7 or
12-1-8 of this chapter. In the case of an appropriate use, the PE shall state
in writing that the development meets the requirements of section
12-1-7 of this chapter.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Dam Safety Requirements: Ensure that an IDNR/OWR permit has been issued
or a letter indicating no permit is required, if the proposed development
activity includes construction of a "dam" as defined in section
12-1-2 of this chapter. Regulated dams may include weirs, restrictive culverts
or impoundment structures.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Other Permit Requirements: Ensure that any and all required federal,
state and local permits are received prior to the issuance of a floodplain
development permit.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Plan Review And Permit Issuance: Ensure that all development activities
within the SFHAs of the jurisdiction of the village meet the requirements of
this chapter, and issue a floodplain development permit in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and other regulations of this community when the
development meets the conditions of this chapter.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Inspection Review: Inspect all development projects before, during and
after construction to assure proper elevation of the structure and to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Damage Determinations: Make damage determinations of all damaged
buildings in the SFHA after a flood to determine substantially damaged
structures which must comply with subsection 12-1-9C1c of this chapter.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Elevation And Floodproofing Certificates: Maintain permit files
including: 1) an elevation certificate certifying the elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) of a residential or nonresidential building, and/or;
2) the elevation to which a nonresidential building has been floodproofed,
using a floodproofing certificate, for all buildings subject to section
12-1-9 of this chapter.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Records For Public Inspection: Maintain for public inspection and
furnish upon request base flood data, SFHA and designated floodway maps, copies
of federal or state permit documents, variance documentation, conditional
letter of map revision, letter of map revision, letter of map amendment and "as
built" elevation and floodproofing and/or elevation certificates for all
buildings constructed subject to this chapter.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â State Permits: Ensure that construction authorization has been granted
by IDNR/OWR, for all development projects subject to sections
12-1-7 and
12-1-8 of this chapter, unless enforcement responsibility has been delegated to
the village. However, the following review approvals are not delegated to the
village and shall require review or permits from IDNR/OWR:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Organizations which are exempt from this chapter, as per Illinois
Compiled Statutes;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â IDNR/OWR projects, dams or impoundment structures as defined in
section
12-1-2 of this chapter and all other state, federal or local unit of government
projects, including projects of the village and county, except for those
projects meeting the requirements of subsection 12-1-7J of this chapter;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â An engineer's determination that an existing bridge or culvert
crossing is not a source of flood damage and the analysis indicating the
proposed flood profile, per subsection 12-1-7F5 of this chapter;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â An engineer's analysis of the flood profile due to subsection 12-1-
7F4 of this chapter;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Alternative transition sections and hydraulically equivalent
compensatory storage as indicated in subsections 12-1-7F1, F2, and F8 of this
chapter;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Permit issuance of structures within, under, or over publicly
navigable rivers, lakes and streams;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Any changes in the base flood elevation or floodway locations; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Base flood elevation determinations where none now exist.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Cooperation With Other Agencies: Cooperate with state and federal
floodplain management agencies to improve base flood or 100-year frequency
flood and floodway data and to improve the administration of this chapter;
submit data to IDNR/OWR and FEMA for proposed revisions of a regulatory map
within six (6) months whenever a modification of the floodplain may change the
base flood elevation or result in a change to the floodplain map. Submit
reports as required for the national flood insurance program. Notify FEMA of
any proposed amendments to this chapter.
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â Promulgate Regulations: Promulgate rules and regulations as necessary
to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter, subject however to
the review and approval of IDNR/OWR and FEMA for any chapter changes. (Ord.
2005-11, 5-16-2005)
12-1-5: BASE FLOOD ELEVATION:
This chapter's protection standard is based on the flood insurance study for
the village. If a base flood elevation or 100-year frequency flood elevation is
not available for a particular site, then the protection standard shall be
according to the best existing data available in the Illinois state water
survey's floodplain information repository that has been approved by IDNR/OWR
and FEMA. When a party disagrees with the best available data, he/she shall
finance the detailed engineering study needed to replace existing data with
better data and submit it to IDNR/OWR and FEMA for approval prior to any
development of the site.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for the SFHAs of
Addison Creek and Salt Creek shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood
profiles in the flood insurance study of the village prepared by FEMA and dated
August 19, 2008, and such amendments to such study and maps as may be prepared
from time to time.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for the SFHAs of
those parts of unincorporated Cook County that are within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the village or that may be annexed into the village shall be as
delineated on the 100-year flood profiles in the flood insurance study of Cook
County prepared by FEMA and dated August 2008, and such amendments or revisions
to such study and maps as may be prepared from time to time.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for each SFHA
delineated as an AH zone or AO zone shall be that elevation (or depth)
delineated on the flood insurance rate map of the village.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for each of the
remaining SFHAs delineated as an A zone on the flood insurance rate map of the
village shall be according to the best existing data available in the Illinois
state water survey floodplain information repository.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â When no base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation exists, the
base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for a riverine SFHA shall be
determined from a backwater model, such as HEC-II, WSP-2, or a dynamic model
such as HIP.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The flood flows used in the hydraulic models shall be obtained from
a hydrologic model, such as HEC-I, TR-20, or HIP, or by techniques presented in
various publications prepared by the United States geological survey for
estimating peak flood discharges.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Along any watercourses draining more than one square mile, the above
analyses shall be submitted to IDNR/OWR for approval. Once approved it must be
submitted to the Illinois state water survey floodplain information repository
for filing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â For a nonriverine SFHA, the base flood elevation shall be the
historic flood of record plus three feet (3'), unless calculated by a detailed
engineering study and approved by IDNR/OWR for drainage areas greater than one
square mile.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â For an unmapped extended SFHA (with a drainage area less than 1
square mile) which has been identified by the building commissioner pursuant to
subsection 12-1-4A of this chapter, the base flood elevation shall be
determined by the applicant utilizing a method as approved in this subsection
D, with concurrence of the building commissioner. (Ord. 2005-11, 5-16-2005;
amd. Ord. 2008-15, 6-16-2008)
12-1-6: OCCUPATION AND USE OF FLOOD FRINGE AREAS:
Development in and/or filling of the flood fringe will be permitted if
protection is provided against the base flood or 100-year frequency flood by
proper elevation, and compensatory storage, and other applicable provisions of
this chapter. No use will be permitted which adversely affects the capacity of
drainage facilities or systems. Developments located within the flood fringe
shall meet the requirements of this section, along with the requirements of
section
12-1-9 of this chapter.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Development Permit: No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body
not exempted by law shall commence any development in the SFHA without first
obtaining a development permit from the building commissioner.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Application For Permit: Application for a development permit shall be
made on a form provided by the building commissioner. The application shall be
accompanied by drawings of the site, drawn to scale, showing property line
dimensions and legal description for the property and sealed by a licensed
engineer, architect or land surveyor; existing grade elevations in MSL, 1929
adjustment datum or NGVD and all changes in grade resulting from excavation or
filling; the location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings. For all proposed buildings, the elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) and lowest adjacent grade shall be shown on the submitted
plans and the development will be subject to the requirements of section
12-1-9 of this chapter.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Comparison Of Elevation: Upon receipt of a development permit
application, the building commissioner shall compare the elevation of the site
to the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation. Any development
located on land that can be shown to be higher than the base flood elevation of
the current flood insurance rate map and which has not been filled after the
date of the site's first flood insurance rate map without a permit as required
by this chapter is not in the SFHA and, therefore, not subject to the
requirements of this chapter. Conversely, any development located on land shown
to be below the base flood elevation and hydraulically connected, but shown on
the current flood insurance rate map is subject to the provisions of this
chapter. The building commissioner shall maintain documentation of the existing
ground elevation at the development site and certification that this ground
elevation existed prior to the date of the site's first flood insurance rate
map identification.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Soil Erosion And Sediment Control Plan: A soil erosion and sediment
control plan for disturbed areas shall be submitted. This plan shall include a
description of the sequence of grading activities and the temporary sediment
and erosion control measures to be implemented to mitigate their effects. This
plan shall also include a description of final stabilization and revegetation
measures, and the identification of a responsible party to ensure
postconstruction maintenance.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Issuance Of Permit: The building commissioner shall be responsible for
obtaining from the applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local
permits, approvals or permit-not-required letters that may be required for this
type of activity. The building commissioner shall not issue a permit unless all
other federal, state, and local permits have been obtained.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Preventing Increased Damages: No development in the flood fringe shall
create a threat to public health and safety.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Elevation Of Site: If fill is being used to elevate the site above the
base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation, the applicant shall submit
sufficient data and obtain a letter of map revision (LOMR) from FEMA for the
purpose of removing the site from the floodplain.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Compensatory Storage: Whenever any portion of a floodplain is
authorized for use, the volume of space which will be occupied by the
authorized fill or structure below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevation shall be compensated for and balanced by a hydraulically equivalent
volume of excavation taken from below the base flood or 100-year frequency
flood elevation. The excavation volume shall be at least equal to 1.0 times the
volume of storage lost due to the fill or structure. In the case of streams and
watercourses, such excavation shall be made opposite or adjacent to the areas
so filled or occupied. All floodplain storage lost below the existing 10-year
flood elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood elevation.
All floodplain storage lost above the existing 10-year flood elevation shall be
replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All such excavations shall
be constructed to drain freely and openly to the watercourse.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Construction Of The Lowest Floor Below The Base Flood Elevation (BFE):
A person who has obtained a letter of map revision based on fill that removes a
site in the flood fringe from the floodplain due to the use of fill to elevate
the site above the BFE, may apply for a permit from the village to construct
the lowest floor of a residential building below the BFE in the flood fringe.
The building commissioner shall not issue such a permit unless the applicant
has complied with all the criteria set forth in the following subsection.
Compensatory storage shall be provided per subsection H of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The elevation of the lowest opening in the basement wall (i.e.,
window wells, accessways) shall be at or above the flood protection elevation
(FPE).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The lowest adjacent grade to the foundation shall be at or above the
FPE, for a minimum distance of ten feet (10') beyond the outside face of the
structure. However, if site conditions are such that this requirement cannot be
met, the building commissioner may waive the ten foot (10') minimum setback if
an Illinois registered professional engineer certifies that an alternative
method to protect the building from damage due to hydrostatic pressures has
been met. The certifications shall be in the form of a detailed soils and
structural design analysis, which shall be submitted to the building
commissioner for review. The building commissioner may require such additional
documentation as necessary to prove that the proposed shorter setback distance
will keep the structure reasonably safe. In no case shall the setback distance
be less than four feet (4').
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The grade around the perimeter of the structure, measured at a
distance of twenty feet (20') from the structure, shall be above the BFE.
However, if site conditions are such that this requirement cannot be obtained,
the building commissioner may waive the twenty foot (20') minimum setback
distance if an Illinois registered professional engineer certifies that an
alternative method to protect the building from damages due to hydrostatic
pressures has been met. A detailed soils analysis and structural design proving
that a shorter setback distance will keep the structure reasonably safe from
flooding, shall be submitted to the village for review. In no case shall the
setback distance be less than four feet (4').
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The ground around the building shall be compacted fill that meets
all requirements of this subsection I and is at least five feet (5') thick
under the basement floor slab. Nothing in this subsection shall be interpreted
to require the removal or replacement of fill that was placed as part of a
LOMR-F, if such fill consists of material, including soils of similar
classification and degree permeability, such as those classified as CH, CL, SC
or ML according to ASTM Standard D-2487, Classification Of Soils For
Engineering Purposes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The fill material must be homogeneous (i.e., all of one material)
and isotropic (i.e., having the same engineering properties) and in the same
direction.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â All fill material and compaction shall be designed, certified and
inspected by an Illinois registered professional engineer, as warranted by the
site conditions.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â The basement floor shall be at an elevation that is no more than
five feet (5') below the BFE.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â There shall be a granular drainage layer beneath the floor slab, and
minimum of one-fourth (1/4) horsepower sump pump with a backup power supply
shall be provided to remove seepage flow. The pump shall be rated at four (4)
times the estimated seepage rate and shall discharge above the BFE and away
from the building in order to prevent flooding of the basement or uplift of the
floor under the effect of the seepage pressure.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â The drainage system shall be equipped with a positive means of
preventing backflow.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â All foundation elements shall be designed to withstand hydrostatic
pressure in accordance with accepted engineering practices.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â If the applicant is unable to meet all of the requirements set
forth in this subsection I, the building commissioner may allow the
construction of a basement below the BFE only if the applicant demonstrates
that the proposed fill and structure meet the guidelines and requirements set
forth in FEMA technical bulletin 10-01 and are reasonably safe from flooding.
In order to demonstrate that the proposed structure is reasonably safe from
flooding, the applicant shall submit a detailed engineering analysis of the
proposed fill and foundation wall. The engineered basement study shall be
completed in accordance with the latest edition of FEMA technical bulletin 10-
01, with the analysis of the fill being prepared by an Illinois registered
professional engineer.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 12.Â Â Â In order to provide the required compensatory storage on site, in
no case shall the depth of excavation in the front and side yards of the lot
exceed eighteen inches (18"), as measured from the previously existing natural
grade. The rear yard shall be permitted to have a greater depth of excavation,
if necessary. All such excavation shall be constructed to drain freely and
openly to the watercourse or storm sewer system. The use of mechanical means to
drain the compensatory storage area will not be permitted. (Ord. 2005-11, 5-16-
2005)
12-1-7: OCCUPATION AND USE OF DESIGNATED FLOODWAYS:
This section applies to proposed development, redevelopment, site modification
or building modification within a designated floodway. The designated floodway
for Addison Creek and Salt Creek shall be as delineated on the designated
floodway maps designated by IDNR/OWR according to and referenced in section
12-1-2 of this chapter. Only those uses and structures will be permitted which
meet the criteria in this section. All floodway modifications shall be the
minimum necessary to accomplish the purpose of the project. The development
shall also meet the requirements of section
12-1-9 of this chapter.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Development Permit: No person, firm, corporation or governmental body
not exempted by state law shall commence any development in a floodway without
first obtaining a development permit from the building commissioner and IDNR/
OWR.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Application For Permit: Application for a development permit shall be
made on a form provided by the building commissioner. The application shall
include the following information:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Name and address of applicant;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Site location (including legal description) of the property, drawn
to scale, on the designated floodway map, indicating whether it is proposed to
be in an incorporated or unincorporated area;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Name of stream or body of water affected;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Description of proposed activity;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Statement of purpose of proposed activity;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Anticipated dates of initiation and completion of activity;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Name and mailing address of the owner of the subject property if
different from the applicant;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Signature of the applicant or the applicant's agent;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â If the applicant is a corporation, the president or other authorized
officer shall sign the application form;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â If the applicant is a partnership, each partner shall sign the
application form; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â If the applicant is a land trust, the trust officer shall sign the
name of the trustee by him (her) as trust officer. A disclosure affidavit shall
be filed with the application, identifying each beneficiary of the trust by
name and address and defining the respective interests therein.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 12.Â Â Â Plans of the proposed activity shall be provided which include as a
minimum:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â A vicinity map showing the site of the activity, name of the
waterway, boundary lines, names of roads in the vicinity of the site, graphic
or numerical scale, and north arrow;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â A plan view of the project and engineering study reach showing
existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
structure or work, elevations in mean sea level (1929 adjustment) datum or NGVD
or North American vertical datum, adjacent property lines and ownership,
drainage and flood control easements, location of any channels and any existing
or future access roads, distance between proposed activity and navigation
channel (when the proposed construction is near a commercially navigable body
of water), designated floodway limit, floodplain limit, specifications and
dimensions of any proposed channel modifications, location and orientation of
cross sections, north arrow, and a graphic or numerical scale;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Cross section views of the project and engineering study reach
showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
work as shown in plan view, existing and proposed elevations, normal water
elevation, 10-year frequency flood elevation, 100-year frequency flood
elevation, and graphic or numerical scales (horizontal and vertical);
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â A soil erosion and sediment control plan for disturbed areas.
This plan shall include a description of the sequence of grading activities and
the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be implemented to
mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a description of final
stabilization and revegetation measures, and the identification of a
responsible party to ensure postconstruction maintenance.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â A copy of the designated floodway map, marked to reflect any
proposed change in the designated floodway location.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 13.Â Â Â Any and all other federal, state, and local permits or approval
letters that may be required for this type of development.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 14.Â Â Â Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be submitted
showing that the proposed work will meet the permit criteria of subsection D of
this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 15.Â Â Â If the designated floodway delineation, base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation will change due to the proposed project, the
application will not be considered complete until IDNR/OWR has indicated
conditional approval of the designated floodway map change. No structures may
be built until a letter of map revision has been approved by FEMA.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 16.Â Â Â The application for a structure shall be accompanied by drawings of
the site, drawn to scale showing property line dimensions and existing ground
elevations and all changes in grade resulting from any proposed excavation or
filling, and floodplain and floodway limits; sealed by a registered
professional engineer, licensed architect or registered land surveyor; the
location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to buildings; and the
elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all proposed buildings
subject to the requirements of section
12-1-9 of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 17.Â Â Â If the proposed project involves a channel modification, the
applicant shall submit the following information:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â A discussion of the purpose of and need for the proposed work;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â A discussion of the feasibility of using alternative locations or
methods (see subsection F4a of this section) to accomplish the purpose of the
proposed work;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â An analysis of the extent and permanence of the impacts each
feasible alternative identified in subsection F4a of this section would have on
the physical and biological conditions of the body of water affected; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â An analysis of the impacts of the proposed project, considering
cumulative effects on the physical and biological conditions of the body of
water affected.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Issuance Of Permit: The building commissioner shall be responsible for
obtaining from the applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local
permits and approvals that may be required for this type of activity.
The building commissioner shall not issue the development permit unless all
required federal and state permits have been obtained. A registered
professional engineer, under the employ or contract of the village shall review
and approve applications reviewed under this section.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Preventing Increased Damages And A List Of Appropriate Uses: The only
development in a floodway which will be allowed are appropriate uses, which
will not cause a rise in the base flood elevation, and which will not create a
damaging or potentially damaging increase in flood heights or velocity or be a
threat to public health and safety and welfare or impair the natural hydrologic
and hydraulic functions of the floodway or channel, or permanently impair
existing water quality or aquatic habitat. Construction impacts shall be
minimized by appropriate mitigation methods as called for in this chapter. Only
those appropriate uses listed in 17 Illinois administrative code part 3708 will
be allowed. The approved appropriate uses are as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Flood control structures, dikes, dams and other public works or
private improvements relating to the control of drainage, flooding, erosion, or
water quality or habitat for fish and wildlife.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Structures or facilities relating to the use of, or requiring access
to, the water or shoreline, such as pumping and treatment facilities, and
facilities and improvements related to recreational boating, commercial
shipping and other functionally water dependent uses;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Storm and sanitary sewer relief outfalls;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Underground and overhead utilities;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Recreational facilities such as playing fields and trail systems,
including any related fencing (at least 50 percent open when viewed from any 1
direction) built parallel to the direction of flood flows, and including open
air pavilions and toilet facilities (4 stall maximum) that will not block flood
flows nor reduce floodway storage;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Detached garages, storage sheds, or other nonhabitable accessory
structures that will not block flood flows nor reduce floodway storage;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Bridges, culverts, roadways, sidewalks, railways, runways and
taxiways and any modification thereto;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Parking lots built at or below existing grade where either:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The depth of flooding at the 100-year frequency flood event will
not exceed one foot (1'); or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The applicant of a short term recreational use facility parking
lot, formally agrees to restrict access during overbank flooding events and
accepts liability for all damage caused by vehicular access during all overbank
flooding events;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Designated floodway regrading, without fill, to create a positive
nonerosive slope toward a watercourse;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â Floodproofing activities to protect previously existing lawful
structures including the construction of watertight window wells, elevating
structures, or construction of floodwalls around residential, commercial or
industrial principal structures where the outside toe of the floodwall shall be
no more than ten feet (10') away from the exterior wall of the existing
structure, and, which are not considered substantial improvements to the
structure;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â The replacement, reconstruction, or repair of a damaged building,
provided that the outside dimensions are not increased, and if the building was
damaged to fifty percent (50%) or more of the market value before the damage
occurred, the building will be protected from flooding to the flood protection
elevation;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 12.Â Â Â Modifications to an existing building that would not increase the
enclosed floor area of the building below the 100-year frequency flood
elevation, and which will not block flood flows including, but not limited to,
fireplaces, bay windows, decks, patios, and second story additions. If the
building is improved to fifty percent (50%) or more of the market value before
the modification occurred (i.e., a substantial improvement), the building will
be protected from flooding to the flood protection elevation.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Appropriate Uses: Appropriate uses do not include the construction or
placement of any new structures, fill, building additions, buildings on stilts,
excavation or channel modifications done to accommodate otherwise
nonappropriate uses in the floodway, fencing (including landscaping or planting
designed to act as a fence) and storage of materials except as specifically
defined above as an appropriate use.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Construction Of Appropriate Uses: Within the designated floodway as
identified on the floodway maps designated by IDNR/OWR, the construction of an
appropriate use, will be considered permissible provided that the proposed
project meets the following engineering and mitigation criteria and is so
stated in writing with supporting plans, calculations and data by a registered
professional engineer and provided that any structure meets the protection
requirements of section
12-1-9 of this chapter:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Preservation Of Flood Conveyance, So As Not To Increase Flood Stages
Upstream: For appropriate uses other than bridge or culvert crossings, on
stream structures or dams, all effective designated floodway conveyance lost
due to the project will be replaced for all flood events up to and including
the 100-year frequency flood. In calculating effective designated floodway
conveyance, the following factors shall be taken into consideration:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Designated floodway conveyance,
Â Â Â Â Â Â K = (1.486/n)(AR0.666)
where "n" is Manning's roughness factor, "A" is the effective flow area of the
cross section, and "R" is the ratio of the area to the wetted perimeter. (See
Open Channel Hydraulics, Ven Te Chow, 1959, McGraw-Hill Book Company, New
York.)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The same Manning's "n" value shall be used for both existing and
proposed conditions unless a recorded maintenance agreement with a federal,
state, or local unit of government can assure the proposed conditions will be
maintained or the land cover is changing from a vegetative to a nonvegetative
land cover.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Transition sections shall be provided and used in calculations of
effective designated floodway conveyance. The following expansion and
contraction ratios shall be used unless an applicant's engineer can prove to
IDNR/OWR through engineering calculations or model tests that more abrupt
transitions may be used with the same efficiency:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â When water is flowing from a narrow section to a wider
section, the water should be assumed to expand no faster than at a rate of one
foot (1') horizontal for every four feet (4') of the flooded stream's length.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow
section, the water should be assumed to contract no faster than at a rate of
one foot (1') horizontal for every one foot (1') of the flooded stream's
length.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â When expanding or contracting flows in a vertical direction,
a minimum of one foot (1') vertical transition for every ten feet (10') of
stream length shall be used.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Transition sections shall be provided between cross sections
with rapid expansions and contractions and when meeting the designated floodway
delineation on adjacent properties.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â All cross sections used in the calculations shall be located
perpendicular to flood flows.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Preservation Of Floodway Storage So As Not To Increase Downstream
Flooding: Compensatory storage shall be provided for any designated floodway
storage lost due to the proposed work from the volume of fill or structures
placed and the impact of any related flood control projects. Compensatory
storage for fill or structures shall be equal to at least 1.0 times the volume
of floodplain storage lost. Artificially created storage lost due to a
reduction in head loss behind a bridge shall not be required to be replaced.
The compensatory designated floodway storage shall be placed between the
proposed normal water elevation and the proposed 100-year flood elevation. All
designated floodway storage lost below the existing 10-year flood elevation
shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All designated
floodway storage lost above the existing 10-year flood elevation shall be
replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All such excavations shall
be constructed to drain freely and openly to the watercourse. If the
compensatory storage will not be placed at the location of the proposed
construction, the applicant's engineer shall demonstrate to IDNR/OWR through a
determination of flood discharges and water surface elevations that the
compensatory storage is hydraulically equivalent. There shall be no reduction
in floodway surface area as a result of a floodway modification, unless such
modification is necessary to reduce flooding at existing structure.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Preservation Of Floodway Velocities So As Not To Increase Stream
Erosion Or Flood Heights: For all appropriate uses, except bridges or culverts
or on stream structures, the proposed work will not result in an increase in
the average channel or designated floodway velocities or stage for all flood
events up to and including the 100-year frequency event. In the case of bridges
or culverts or on stream structures built for the purpose of backing up water
in the stream during normal or flood flows, velocities may be increased at the
structure site if scour, erosion and sedimentation will be avoided by the use
of riprap or other design measures.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Construction Of New Bridges Or Culvert Crossings And Roadway
Approaches: The proposed structure shall not result in an increase of upstream
flood stages greater than 0.1 foot when compared to the existing conditions for
all flood events up to and including the 100-year frequency event; or the
upstream flood stage increases will be contained within the channel banks (or
within existing vertical extensions of the channel banks) such as within the
design protection grade of existing levees or floodwalls or within recorded
flood easements. If the proposed construction will increase upstream flood
stages greater than 0.1 feet, the developer must contact IDNR/OWR to obtain a
permit for a dam or waiver.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The engineering analysis of upstream flood stages must be
calculated using the flood study flows, and corresponding flood elevations for
tailwater conditions for the flood study specified in section
12-1-5 of this chapter. Culverts must be analyzed using the U.S. DOT, FHWA
hydraulic chart for the selection of highway culverts. Bridges must be analyzed
using the U.S. DOT/federal highway administration hydraulics of bridge
waterways calculation procedures.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Lost floodway storage must be compensated for per subsection F2
of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Velocity increases must be mitigated per subsection F3 of this
section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â If the crossing is proposed over a public water that is used for
recreational or commercial navigation, an IDNR/OWR permit must be received.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â The hydraulic analysis for the backwater caused by the bridge
showing the existing condition and proposed regulatory profile must be
submitted to IDNR/OWR for concurrence that a CLOMR is not required by
subsection D of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â All excavations for the construction of the crossing shall be
designed per subsection F8 of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Reconstruction Or Modification Of Existing Bridges, Culverts, And
Approach Roads:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The bridge or culvert and roadway approach reconstruction or
modification shall be constructed with no more than 0.1 foot increase in
backwater over the existing flood profile for all flood frequencies up to and
including the 100-year event, if the existing structure is not a source of
flood damage.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â If the existing bridge or culvert and roadway approach is a
source of flood damage to buildings or structures in the upstream floodplain,
the applicant's engineer shall evaluate the feasibility of redesigning the
structure to reduce the existing backwater, taking into consideration the
effects on flood stages on upstream and downstream properties.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The determination as to whether or not the existing crossing is a
source of flood damage and should be redesigned must be prepared in accordance
with 17 Illinois administrative code part 3708 (floodway construction in
northeastern Illinois) and submitted to IDNR/OWR for review and concurrence
before a permit is issued.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â On Stream Structures Built For The Purpose Of Backing Up Water: Any
increase in upstream flood stages greater than 0.0 foot when compared to the
existing conditions, for all flood events up to and including the 100-year
frequency event shall be contained within the channel banks (or within existing
vertical extensions of the channel banks) such as within the design protection
grade of existing levees or floodwalls or within recorded flood easements. A
permit or letter indicating a permit is not required must be obtained from
IDNR/OWR for any structure built for the purpose of backing up water in the
stream during normal or flood flow. All dams and impoundment structures as
defined in section
12-1-2 of this chapter shall meet the permitting requirements of 17 Illinois
administrative code part 3702 (construction and maintenance of dams). If the
proposed activity involves a modification of the channel or floodway to
accommodate an impoundment, it shall be demonstrated that:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The impoundment is determined to be in the public interest by
providing flood control, public recreation, or regional storm water detention;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The impoundment will not prevent the migration of indigenous fish
species, which require access to upstream areas as part of their life cycle,
such as for spawning;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The impoundment will not cause or contribute to degraded water
quality or habitat conditions. Impoundment design should include gradual bank
slopes, appropriate bank stabilization measures, and a presedimentation basin.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â A nonpoint source control plan has been implemented in the
upstream watershed to control the effects of sediment runoff as well as
minimize the input of nutrients, oil and grease, metals, and other pollutants.
If there is more than one municipality in the upstream watershed, the
municipality in which the impoundment is constructed should coordinate with
upstream municipalities to ensure comprehensive watershed control;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â The project otherwise complies with the requirements of this
section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Floodproofing Of Existing Habitable, Residential And Commercial
Structures: If construction is required beyond the outside dimensions of the
existing building, the outside perimeter of the floodproofing construction
shall be placed no further than ten feet (10') from the outside of the
building. Compensation of lost storage and conveyance will not be required for
floodproofing activities.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Excavation In The Floodway: When excavation is proposed in the
design of bridges and culvert openings, including the modifications to and
replacement of existing bridge and culvert structures, or to compensate for
lost conveyance or other appropriate uses, transition sections shall be
provided for the excavation. The following expansion and contraction ratios
shall be used unless an applicant's engineer can prove to IDNR/OWR through
engineering calculations or model tests that more abrupt transitions may be
used with the same efficiency:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â When water is flowing from a narrow section to a wider section,
the water should be assumed to expand no faster than at a rate of one foot (1')
horizontal for every four feet (4') of the flooded stream's length;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow section,
the water should be assumed to contract no faster than at a rate of one foot
(1') horizontal for every one foot (1') of the flooded stream's length; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â When expanding or contracting flows in a vertical direction, a
minimum of one foot (1') vertical transition for every ten feet (10') of stream
length shall be used.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Erosion/scour protection shall be provided inland upstream and
downstream of the transition sections.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Seeding And Stabilization Plan: For all activities located in a
floodway, a seeding and stabilization plan shall be submitted by the applicant.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â Soil Erosion And Sedimentation Measures: For all activities in the
floodway, including grading, filling, and excavation, in which there is
potential for erosion of exposed soil, soil erosion and sedimentation control
measures shall be employed consistent with the following criteria:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The construction area shall be minimized to preserve the maximum
vegetation possible. Construction shall be scheduled to minimize the time soil
is exposed and unprotected. In no case shall the existing natural vegetation be
destroyed, removed, or disturbed more than fifteen (15) days prior to the
initiation of improvements.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Temporary and/or permanent soil stabilization shall be applied to
denuded areas as soon as possible. As a minimum, soil stabilization shall be
provided within fifteen (15) days after final grade is reached on any portion
of the site, and within fifteen (15) days to denuded areas which may not be at
final grade but will remain undisturbed for longer than sixty (60) days.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Sedimentation control measures shall be installed before any
significant grading or filling is initiated on the site to prevent the movement
of eroded sediments off site or into the channel. Potential sediment control
devices include filter fences, straw bale fences, check dams, diversion
ditches, and sediment traps and basins.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â A vegetated buffer strip of at least twenty five feet (25') in
width shall be preserved and/or reestablished, where possible, along existing
channels (see subsection F15 of this section). Construction vehicle use of
channels shall be minimized. Temporary stream crossings shall be constructed,
where necessary, to minimize erosion. Necessary construction in or along
channels shall be restabilized immediately.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Soil erosion and sedimentation control measures shall be designed
and implemented consistent with "Procedures And Standards For Urban Soil
Erosion And Sedimentation Control In Illinois" (1988) also known as the "Green
Book" and "The Illinois Urban Manual" (NRCS,1995).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â Public Flood Control Projects: For public flood control projects,
the permitting requirements of this section will be considered met if the
applicant can demonstrate to IDNR/OWR through hydraulic and hydrologic
calculations that the proposed project will not singularly or cumulatively
result in increased flood heights outside the project right of way or easements
for all flood events up to and including the 100-year frequency event.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 12.Â Â Â General Criteria For Analysis Of Flood Elevations:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The flood profiles, flows and floodway data in the designated
floodway study, referenced in section
12-1-5 of this chapter, must be used for analysis of the base conditions. If
the study data appears to be in error or conditions have changed, IDNR/OWR
shall be contacted for approval and concurrence on the appropriate base
conditions data to use.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â If the 100-year designated floodway elevation at the site of the
proposed construction is affected by backwater from a downstream receiving
stream with a larger drainage area, the proposed construction shall be shown to
meet the requirements of this section for the 100-year frequency flood
elevations of the designated floodway conditions and conditions with the
receiving stream at normal water elevations.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â If the applicant learns from IDNR/OWR, local governments, or a
private owner that a downstream restrictive bridge or culvert is scheduled to
be removed, reconstructed, modified, or a regional flood control project is
scheduled to be built, removed, constructed or modified within the next five
(5) years, the proposed construction shall be analyzed and shown to meet the
requirements of this section for both the existing conditions and the expected
flood profile conditions when the bridge, culvert or flood control project is
built.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 13.Â Â Â Conditional Letter Of Map Revision: If the appropriate use would
result in a change in the designated floodway location or the 100-year
frequency flood elevation, the applicant shall submit to IDNR/OWR and FEMA all
information, calculations and documents necessary to be issued a conditional
designated floodway map revision and receive from IDNR/OWR a conditional
concurrence of the designated floodway change before a permit is issued. The
final designated floodway map will not be changed by FEMA until as built plans
or record drawings of initial filling, grading, dredging, or excavating
activities are submitted and accepted by FEMA and IDNR/OWR. In the case of
nongovernment projects, the municipality in incorporated areas and the county
in unincorporated areas shall concur with the proposed conditional designated
floodway map revision before IDNR/OWR approval can be given. No filling,
grading, dredging or excavating shall take place until a conditional approval
is issued. After initial filling, grading, dredging or excavating, no
activities shall take place until a final letter of map revision (LOMR) is
issued by FEMA with concurrence from IDNR/OWR.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 14.Â Â Â Professional Engineer's Supervision: All engineering analyses shall
be performed by or under the supervision of a registered professional engineer.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 15.Â Â Â Buffer Strip: For all activities in the floodway involving
construction within twenty five feet (25') of the channel, the following
criteria shall be met:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â A natural vegetation buffer strip shall be preserved within at
least twenty five feet (25') of the ordinary high water mark of the channel.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Where it is impossible to protect this buffer strip during the
construction of an appropriate use, a vegetated buffer strip shall be
established upon completion of construction.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 16.Â Â Â Construction To Proceed With Conditional Approval: After receipt of
conditional approval of the designated floodway change and issuance of a permit
and a conditional letter of map revision, construction as necessary to change
the floodway designation may proceed but no buildings or structures or other
construction that is not an appropriate use may be placed in that area until
the designated floodway map is changed and a final letter of map revision is
received. The designated floodway map will be revised upon acceptance and
concurrence by IDNR/OWR and FEMA of the "as built" plans.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Development Activities In Delegated Communities Requiring State Review:
For those projects listed below located in a designated floodway, the following
criteria shall be submitted to IDNR/OWR for their review and concurrence and/or
permit prior to the issuance of a permit by a community or county delegated
state permitting authority in the floodway:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â An engineer's analysis of the flood profile due to a proposed bridge
pursuant to subsection F4 of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â An engineer's determination that an existing bridge or culvert
crossing is not a source of flood damage and the analysis indicating the
proposed flood profile, pursuant to subsection F5 of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Alternative transition sections and hydraulically equivalent storage
pursuant to subsections F1, F2 and F8 of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The construction of any IDNR/OWR projects, dams (as defined in
section
12-1-2 of this chapter) and all other state, federal, or local units of
government projects, including projects of the municipality or county.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â An engineer's determination that a proposed bridge affected by
backwater from a downstream receiving stream may be built with a smaller
opening.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Projects which revise or establish the floodway and/or flood
profiles.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Projects in public bodies of water.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Other Permits: In addition to the other requirements of this chapter, a
development permit for a site located in a floodway shall not be issued unless
the applicant first obtains a permit or written documentation that a permit is
not required from IDNR/OWR, issued pursuant to 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/5 et seq. No permit from IDNR/OWR shall be required if IDNR/OWR has delegated
this responsibility to the village.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Permits For Dams: Any work involving the construction, modification or
removal of a "dam" as defined in section
12-1-2 of this chapter per 17 Illinois administrative code part 3702 (rules for
construction of dams) shall obtain an IDNR/OWR permit prior to the start of
construction of a dam. If the building commissioner finds a dam that does not
have an IDNR/OWR permit, the building commissioner shall immediately notify the
IDNR/OWR Schaumburg office. If the building commissioner finds a dam which is
believed to be in unsafe condition, the building commissioner shall immediately
notify the owner of the dam, the IDNR/OWR Schaumburg office, and the Illinois
emergency management agency (IEMA).
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Activities That Do Not Require A Registered Professional Engineer's
Review: The following activities may be permitted without a registered
professional engineer's review. Such activities shall still meet the other
requirements of this chapter, including the mitigation requirements.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Underground and overhead utilities that:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Do not result in any increase in existing ground elevations, or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Do not require the placement of aboveground structures in the
floodway, or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â In the case of underground stream crossings, the top of the pipe
or encasement is buried a minimum of three feet (3') below the existing
streambed, and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Overhead utility lines shall be constructed above the estimated
100-year frequency flood elevation or attached above the low chord of an
existing bridge (with the permission of the bridge owner). No supporting towers
shall be placed in the watercourse and shall be designed so as to not catch
debris.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Disturbance of stream side vegetation shall be kept to a minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â A utility crossing carrying material which may cause water
pollution as defined by the environmental protection act 415 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5 (1992 state bar edition) shall be provided with shutoff valves on
each side of the body of water to be crossed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â All Illinois commerce commission, national electric safety codes,
and federal requirements for clearance must be met.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Storm and sanitary sewer relief outfalls that:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Do not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent
natural bank slope, and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Do not result in an increase in ground elevation, and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Are designed so as not to cause stream erosion at the outfall
location.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Construction of sidewalks, athletic fields (excluding fences),
properly anchored playground equipment and patios at grade.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Construction of shoreline and stream bank protection that:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Does not exceed one thousand feet (1,000') in length.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Materials are not placed higher than the existing top of bank.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Materials are placed so as not to reduce the cross sectional area
of the stream channel or bank of the lake.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Stabilization utilizing native vegetation and gradual side slopes
are the preferred mitigation methods for existing erosion problems. Where high
channel velocities, sharp bends or wave action necessitate the use of
alternative stabilization measures, soil bioengineering techniques, natural
rock or riprap are preferred materials. Artificial materials such as concrete,
construction rubble, and gabions should be avoided unless there are no
practicable alternatives.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Temporary stream crossings in which:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The approach roads will be one-half foot (1/2') or less above
natural grade.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The crossing will allow stream flow to pass without backing up
the water above the stream bank vegetation line or above any drainage tile or
outfall invert.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The top of the roadway fill in the channel will be at least two
feet (2') below the top of the lowest bank. Any fill in the channel shall be
nonerosive material, such as riprap or gravel.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â All disturbed stream banks will be seeded or otherwise stabilized
as soon as possible upon installation and again upon removal of construction.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â The access road and temporary crossings will be removed within
one year after authorization. (Ord. 2005-11, 5-16-2005)
12-1-8: OCCUPATION AND USE OF SFHAs WHERE FLOODWAYS ARE NOT IDENTIFIED:
In SFHA or floodplains (including AE, AH, AO and unnumbered A zones) where no
floodways have been identified and no base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevations have been established by FEMA, and draining more than a square mile,
no development shall be permitted unless the cumulative effect of the
proposals, when combined with all other existing and anticipated uses and
structures, shall not significantly impede or increase the flow and passage of
the floodwaters nor significantly increase the base flood or 100-year frequency
flood elevation.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Development Permit: No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body,
not exempted by state law, shall commence any development in an SFHA or
floodplain without first obtaining a development permit from the building
commissioner. Application for a development permit shall be made on a form
provided by the building commissioner. The application shall be accompanied by
drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line dimensions; and
existing grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from excavation or
filling, sealed by a licensed engineer, architect or surveyor; the location and
dimensions of all buildings and additions to buildings; and the elevations of
the lowest floor (including basement) of all proposed buildings subject to the
requirements of section
12-1-9 of this chapter.
The application for a development permit shall also include the following
information:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A detailed description of the proposed activity, its purpose, and
intended use;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Site location (including legal description) of the property, drawn
to scale, on the designated floodway maps, indicating whether it is proposed to
be in an incorporated or unincorporated area;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Anticipated dates of initiation and completion of activity;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Plans of the proposed activity shall be provided which include as a
minimum:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â A vicinity map showing the site of the activity, name of the
waterway, boundary lines, names of roads in the vicinity of the site, graphic
or numerical scale, and north arrow;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â A plan view of the project and engineering study reach showing
existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
structure or work, elevations in mean sea level (1929 adjustment) datum or
NGVD, adjacent property lines and ownership, drainage and flood control
easements, distance between proposed activity and navigation channel (when the
proposed construction is in or near a commercially navigable body of water),
floodplain limit, location and orientation of cross sections, north arrow, and
a graphical or numerical scale;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Cross section views of the project perpendicular to the flow of
floodwater and engineering study reach showing existing and proposed conditions
including principal dimensions of the work as shown in plan view, existing and
proposed elevations, normal water elevation, 10-year frequency flood elevation,
100-year frequency flood elevation, and graphical or numerical scales
(horizontal and vertical); and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â A soil erosion and sedimentation control plan for disturbed
areas. This plan shall include a description of the sequence of grading
activities and the temporary sediment and erosion control measures to be
implemented to mitigate their effects. This plan shall also include a
description of final stabilization and revegetation measures, and the
identification of a responsible party to ensure postconstruction maintenance.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be submitted
showing that the proposed work will meet the criteria of subsection D of this
section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Any and all other federal, state, and local permits or approvals
that may be required for this type of development.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Comparison Of Elevation: Based on the best available existing data
according to the Illinois state water survey's floodplain information
repository, the building commissioner shall compare the elevation of the site
to the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation. Should no elevation
information exist for the site, the developer's engineer shall calculate the
elevation according to subsection 12-1-5D of this chapter. Any development
located on land that can be shown to have been higher than the base flood
elevation of the current flood insurance rate map identification is not in the
SFHA and, therefore, not subject to the requirements of this chapter. The
building commissioner shall maintain documentation of the existing ground
elevation at the development site and certification that this ground elevation
existed prior to the date of the site's first flood insurance rate map
identification.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Issuance Of Permit: The building commissioner shall be responsible for
obtaining from the applicant copies of all other federal, state, and local
permits, approvals or permit-not-required letters that may be required for this
type of activity. The building commissioner shall not issue the development
permit unless all required federal, state, and local permits have been
obtained.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Preventing Increased Damages: No development in the SFHA, where a
floodway has not been determined shall create a damaging or potentially
damaging increase in flood heights or velocity or threat to public health,
safety and welfare or impair the natural hydrologic and hydraulic functions of
the floodway or channel, or impair existing water quality or aquatic habitat.
Construction impacts shall be minimized by appropriate mitigation methods as
called for in this chapter.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Standards For Riverine SFHAs: Within all riverine SFHAs where the
floodway has not been determined, the following standards shall apply:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Engineering Requirements: The developer shall have a registered
professional engineer state in writing and show through supporting plans,
calculations, and data that the project meets the engineering requirements of
subsections 12-1-7F1 through F12 of this chapter for the entire floodplain as
calculated under the provisions of subsection 12-1-5D of this chapter. As an
alternative, the developer should have an engineering study performed to
determine a floodway and submit that engineering study to IDNR/OWR for
acceptance as a designated floodway. Upon acceptance of the floodway by IDNR/
OWR, the developer shall then demonstrate that the project meets the
requirements of section
12-1-7 of this chapter for the designated floodway. The floodway shall be
defined according to the definition in section
12-1-2 of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Development Permit: A development permit shall not be issued unless
the applicant first obtains a permit from IDNR/OWR or written documentation
that a permit is not required from IDNR/OWR.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Permit Exemptions: No permit from IDNR/OWR shall be required if
IDNR/OWR has delegated permit responsibility to the village per 17 Illinois
administrative code part 3708 for designated floodways.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Permits For Dams: Any work involving the construction, modification
or removal of a "dam" as defined in section
12-1-2 of this chapter per 17 Illinois administrative code part 3702 (rules for
construction of dams) shall obtain an IDNR/OWR permit prior to the start of
construction of a dam. If the building commissioner finds a dam that does not
have an IDNR/OWR permit, the building commissioner shall immediately notify the
IDNR/OWR Schaumburg office. If the building commissioner finds a dam which is
believed to be in unsafe condition, the building commissioner shall immediately
notify the owner of the dam, the IDNR/OWR Schaumburg office, and the Illinois
emergency management agency (IEMA).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Engineering Requirement Exemptions: The following activities may be
permitted without a registered professional engineer's review or calculation of
a base flood elevation and designated floodway. Such activities shall still
meet the other requirements of this chapter:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Underground and overhead utilities that:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Do not result in any increase in existing ground elevations,
or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Do not require the placement of aboveground structures in the
floodway, or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â In the case of underground stream crossings, the top of the
pipe or encasement is buried a minimum of three feet (3') below the existing
streambed, and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Overhead utility lines shall be constructed above the
estimated 100-year frequency flood elevation or attached above the low chord of
an existing bridge (with the permission of the bridge owner). No supporting
towers shall be placed in the watercourse and shall be designed so as to not
catch debris.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Disturbance of stream side vegetation shall be kept to
minimum during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â A utility crossing carrying material which may cause water
pollution as defined by the environmental protection act 415 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5 (1992 state bar edition) shall be provided with shutoff valves on
each side of the body of water to be crossed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (7)Â Â Â All Illinois commerce commission, national electrical safety
codes, and federal requirements for clearance must be met.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Storm and sanitary sewer relief outfalls that:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Do not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent
natural bank slope, and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Do not result in an increase in ground elevation, and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Are designed so as not to cause stream erosion at the outfall
location.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Construction of shoreline and stream bank protection that:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Does not exceed one thousand feet (1,000') in length.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Materials are not placed higher than the existing top of
bank.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Materials are placed so as not to reduce the cross sectional
area of the stream channel by more than ten percent (10%).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Stabilization utilizing native vegetation and gradual side
slopes are the preferred mitigation methods for existing erosion problems.
Where high channel velocities, sharp bends or wave action necessitate the use
of alternative stabilization measures, soil bioengineering techniques, natural
rock or riprap are preferred materials. Artificial materials such as concrete,
construction rubble, and gabions should be avoided unless there are no
practicable alternatives.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Temporary stream crossings in which:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â The approach roads will be one-half foot (1/2') or less above
natural grade.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â The crossings will allow stream flow to pass without backing
up the water above the stream bank vegetation line or above any drainage tile
or outfall invert.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â The top of the roadway fill in the channel will be at least
two feet (2') below the top of the lowest bank. Any fill in the channel shall
be nonerosive material, such as riprap or gravel.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â All disturbed stream banks will be seeded or otherwise
stabilized as soon as possible upon installation and again upon removal of
construction.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â The access road and temporary crossings will be removed
within one year after authorization.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â The construction of light poles, sign posts and similar
structures;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â The construction of sidewalks, driveways, athletic fields
(excluding fences), patios and similar surfaces which are built at grade;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â The construction of properly anchored, unwalled, open structures
such as playground equipment, pavilions, and carports built at or below
existing grade that would not obstruct the flow of floodwaters;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â The placement of properly anchored buildings not exceeding
seventy (70) square feet in size, nor ten feet (10') in any one dimension
(e.g., animal shelters and toolsheds);
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â i.Â Â Â The construction of additions to existing buildings which do not
increase the first floor area by more than twenty percent (20%), which are
located on the upstream or downstream side of the existing building, and which
do not extend beyond the sides of the existing building that are parallel to
the flow of floodwaters;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â j.Â Â Â Minor maintenance dredging of a stream channel where:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â The affected length of stream is less than one thousand feet
(1,000').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â The work is confined to reestablishing flows in natural
stream channels, or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â The cross sectional area of the dredged channel conforms to
that of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the site.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Flood Carrying Capacity: The flood carrying capacity within any
altered or relocated watercourse shall be maintained.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Compensatory Storage: Whenever any portion of a floodplain is
authorized for use, the volume of space which will be occupied by the
authorized fill or structure below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevation shall be compensated for and balanced by a hydraulically equivalent
volume of excavation taken from below the base flood or 100-year frequency
flood elevation. The excavation volume shall be at least equal to 1.0 times the
volume of storage lost due to the fill or structure. In the case of streams and
watercourses, such excavation shall be made opposite or adjacent to the areas
so filled or occupied. All floodplain storage lost below the existing 10-year
flood elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood elevation.
All floodplain storage lost above the existing 10-year flood elevation shall be
replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All such excavations shall
be constructed to drain freely and openly to the watercourse. (Ord. 2005-11, 5-
16-2005)
12-1-9: PERMITTING REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO ALL FLOODPLAIN AREAS:
In addition to the requirements found in sections
12-1-6,
12-1-7 and
12-1-8 of this chapter for development in flood fringes, designated floodways,
and SFHA or floodplains where no floodways have been identified (zones A, AO,
AH, AE, A1-A30, A99, VO, V1-30, VE, V, M, E, or D), the following requirements
shall be met:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Public Health Standards:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No developments in the SFHA shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, animal wastes, fertilizers, flammable
liquids, pollutants, or other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood
protection elevation (FPE).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas and electric
shall be located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Public sanitary sewer systems and water supply systems shall be
located and constructed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â New and replacement water supply systems, wells, sanitary sewer
lines and on site waste disposal systems may be permitted providing all
manholes or other aboveground openings located below the FPE are watertight.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Carrying Capacity And Notification: For all projects involving channel
modification, fill, or stream maintenance (including levees), the flood
carrying capacity of the watercourse shall be maintained. In addition, the
village shall notify adjacent communities in writing thirty (30) days prior to
the issuance of a permit for the alteration or relocation of the watercourse.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Protecting Buildings: All buildings located within a 100-year
floodplain also known as an SFHA, and all buildings located outside the 100-
year floodplain but within the 500-year floodplain, shall be protected from
flood damage below the flood protection elevation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â This building protection criteria applies to the following
situations:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Construction or placement of a new building valued at more than
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or seventy (70) square feet.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â "Substantial improvement" to an existing building as defined in
section
12-1-2 of this chapter, including an increase to the first floor area by more
than twenty percent (20%). This alteration shall be figured cumulatively
beginning with any alteration which has taken place subsequent to April 1,
1990.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â "Substantial damage" to an existing building as defined in
section
12-1-2 of this chapter. This alteration shall be figured cumulatively beginning
with any alteration which has taken place subsequent to April 1, 1990.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â "Repetitive loss" to an existing building as defined in section
12-1-2 of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new
manufactured home on an existing site. This building protection requirement
does not apply to returning a mobile home to the same site it lawfully occupied
before it was removed to avoid flood damage; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one hundred
eighty (180) days per year.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â This building protection requirement may be met by one of the
following methods:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â A residential or nonresidential building, when allowed, may be
constructed on permanent land fill in accordance with the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above
the flood protection elevation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
(6") deep before compaction and should extend at least ten feet (10') beyond
the foundation of the building before sloping below the flood protection
elevation. The top of the fill shall be above the flood protection elevation.
However, the ten foot (10') minimum may be waived if a structural engineer
certifies an alternative method to protect the building from damages due to
hydrostatic pressures. The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour.
The fill shall not adversely affect the flow or surface drainage from or onto
neighboring properties.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â A residential or nonresidential building may be elevated in
accordance with the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â The building or improvements shall be elevated on crawl
space, stilts, piles, walls, or other foundation that is permanently open to
floodwaters and not subject to damage by hydrostatic pressures of the base
flood or 100-year frequency flood. Designs must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or the permanent openings, one on
each wall, shall be no more than one foot (1') above existing grade, and
consist of a minimum of two (2) openings. The openings must have a total net
area of not less than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed
area subject to flooding below the base flood elevation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored and
aligned in relation to flood flows and adjoining structures so as to minimize
exposure to known hydrodynamic forces such as current, waves, ice and floating
debris.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â All areas below the flood protection elevation shall be
constructed of materials resistant to flood damage. The lowest floor (including
basement) and all electrical, heating, ventilating, plumbing, and air
conditioning equipment and utility meters shall be located at or above the
flood protection elevation. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone
lines, submersible pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities may be
located below the flood protection elevation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â The areas below the flood protection elevation may only be
used for the parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other
than a basement and not later modified or occupied as habitable space.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Manufactured homes, and travel trailers to be installed on a
site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days, shall be elevated to or above
the flood protection elevation; and, shall be anchored to resist flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement by being tied down in accordance with the rules
and regulations for the Illinois mobile home tie-down act issued pursuant to 77
Illinois administrative code part 870. In addition, all manufactured homes
shall meet the following elevation requirements:
Â Â Â (A) In the case of manufactured homes placed or substantially improved: 1)
outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision, 2) in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision, 3) in an expansion to an existing manufactured home
park or subdivision, or 4) in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision
on which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage from a flood, the
top of the lowest floor shall be elevated to or above the flood protection
elevation.
Â Â Â (B) In the case of manufactured homes placed or substantially improved in an
existing manufactured home park or subdivision, the manufactured home shall be
elevated so that either the top of the lowest floor is above the base flood
elevation or the chassis is at least thirty six inches (36") in height above
grade and supported by reinforced piers or other foundations of equivalent
strength, whichever is less.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â Recreational vehicles or travel trailers shall be required to
meet the elevation and anchoring requirements of subsection C2b(5) of this
section unless:
Â Â Â (A) They are on site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive
days; and
Â Â Â (B) They are fully licensed, ready for highway use, and used only for
recreation, camping, travel or seasonal use rather than as a permanent
dwelling. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utility and service devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Only a nonresidential building may be structurally dry
floodproofed (in lieu of elevation) provided that a registered professional
engineer or architect shall certify that the building has been structurally dry
floodproofed below the flood protection elevation, the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood or 100-year frequency flood. The building design shall take into
account flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
forces, the effects of buoyancy, and impacts from debris or ice. Floodproofing
measures shall be operable without human intervention and without an outside
source of electricity (levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not
considered floodproofing for the purpose of this subsection).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â A building may be constructed with a crawl space located below
the flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â The building must be designed and adequately anchored to
resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall
have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot (1') above grade; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â The interior grade of the crawl space below the flood
protection elevation must not be more than two feet (2') below the lowest
adjacent exterior grade; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â The interior height of the crawl space measured from the
interior grade of the crawl space to the top of the foundation wall must not
exceed four feet (4') at any point; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawl space within a reasonable
period of time after a flood event; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (7)Â Â Â Utility systems within the crawl space must be elevated above
the flood protection elevation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Critical facilities shall be protected to the 500-year flood
elevation. In addition, all ingress and egress from any critical facility must
be protected to the 500-year flood elevation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Toolsheds, detached garages, and other minor accessory structures
on an existing single-family platted lot, may be constructed with the lowest
floor below the flood protection elevation in accordance with the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â The building is not used for human habitation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â All areas below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevation shall be constructed with waterproof material. Structures located in
a designated floodway shall be constructed and placed on a building site so as
not to block the flow of floodwaters and shall also meet the appropriate use
criteria of section
12-1-7 of this chapter. In addition, all other requirements of sections
12-1-6,
12-1-7 and
12-1-8 of this chapter must be met.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â The structure shall be anchored to prevent flotation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment
shall be elevated or floodproofed to the flood protection elevation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â The building shall be valued at less than fifteen thousand
dollars ($15,000.00) and be less than five hundred (500) square feet in floor
size.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â The building shall be used only for the storage of vehicles
or tools and may not contain other rooms, workshops, greenhouses or similar
uses.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (7)Â Â Â The building shall meet the permanent opening criteria of
subsection C2b(1) of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Existing buildings located within a designated floodway shall
also meet the more restrictive appropriate use standards included in section
12-1-7 of this chapter. Nonconforming structures located in a designated
floodway may remain in use and may only be enlarged, replaced or structurally
altered in accordance with subsection 12-1-7D of this chapter. A nonconforming
structure damaged by flood, fire, wind or other natural or manmade disaster may
be restored unless the damage exceeds fifty percent (50%) of its market value
before it was damaged, in which case it shall conform to this chapter. (Ord.
2005-11, 5-16-2005)
12-1-10: OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
The board of trustees shall take into account flood hazards, to the extent that
they are known in all official actions related to land management, use and
development.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements, and
planned unit developments (PUDs) within the SFHA shall be reviewed to assure
that the proposed developments are consistent with sections
12-1-6,
12-1-7,
12-1-8, and
12-1-9 of this chapter and the need to minimize flood damage. Plats or plans
for new subdivisions, mobile home parks and planned unit developments (PUDs)
shall include a signed statement by a registered professional engineer that the
plat or plans account for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the plat act 1 .
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Proposals for new subdivisions, manufactured home parks, travel trailer
parks, planned unit developments (PUDs) and additions to manufactured home
parks and additions to subdivisions shall include base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation data and floodway delineations. Where this
information is not available from an existing study filed with the Illinois
state water survey, the applicant's engineer shall be responsible for
calculating the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation per subsection
12-1-5D of this chapter and the floodway delineation per the definition in
section
12-1-2 of this chapter. The applicant's engineer shall submit the data to IDNR/
OWR for review and approval as best available regulatory data and then send it
to the state water survey.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible, the floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The board of trustees shall not approve any planned unit development
(PUD) or plat of subdivision located outside the corporate limits unless such
agreement or plat is in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â All other activities defined as development shall be designed so as not
to alter flood flows or increase potential flood damages. (Ord. 2005-11, 5-16-
2005)
Â 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/2.
12-1-11: VARIANCES:
No variances shall be granted to any development located in a "designated
floodway" as defined in section
12-1-2 of this chapter. Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue
hardship on a specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the
zoning board of appeals for a variance. The zoning board of appeals shall
review the applicant's request for a variance and shall submit its
recommendation to the board of trustees.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that all
of the following conditions are met:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The development activity cannot be located outside the SFHA;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â There will be no additional threat to public health, safety,
beneficial stream uses and functions, especially aquatic habitat, or creation
of a nuisance;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
lost environmental stream uses and functions, rescue or relief operations,
policing, or repairs to streambeds and banks, roads, utilities, or other public
facilities;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â The provisions of subsections 12-1-6F and 12-1-8D of this chapter
shall still be met;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â The activity is not in a designated floodway;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not represent a
general problem; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â The granting of the variance will not alter the essential character
of the area involved including existing stream uses.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The building commissioner shall notify an applicant in writing that a
variance from the requirements of section
12-1-9 of this chapter that would lessen the degree of protection to a building
will:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts
as high as twenty five dollars ($25.00) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of
insurance coverage;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Increase the risks to life and property; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks and
that he will acknowledge in writing that he assumes the risk and liability.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Variances requested in connection with restoration of a historic site
or "historic structure" as defined in section
12-1-2 of this chapter may be granted using criteria more permissive than the
requirements of subsection A of this section, subject to the conditions that:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure. (Ord. 2005-11, 5-16-2005)
12-1-12: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may
occur or flood heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This
chapter does not imply that development, either inside or outside of the SFHA,
will be free from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on
the part of the village or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage
that results from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made
lawfully thereunder. (Ord. 2005-11, 5-16-2005)
12-1-13: PENALTY:
Failure to comply with the requirements of a permit or conditions of a variance
resolution shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. Upon due
investigation, the building commissioner may determine that a violation of the
minimum standards of this chapter exists. The building commissioner shall
notify the owner in writing of such violation.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â If such owner fails after ten (10) days' notice to correct the
violation:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The village may make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any person who violates this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof,
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) or more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each offense.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The village shall record a notice of violation on the title to the
property.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The building commissioner shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a wilful act to increase flood damages and, therefore,
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The building commissioner is authorized to issue an order requiring
the suspension of the subject development. The stop work order shall be in
writing, shall indicate the reason for the issuance, and shall order the
action, if necessary, to resolve the circumstances requiring the stop work
order. The stop work order constitutes a suspension of the permit.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or revoked
until a hearing is held by the board of appeals. Written notice of such hearing
shall be served on the permittee and shall state: a) the grounds for compliance
or reasons for suspension or revocation; and b) the time and place of the
hearing. At such hearing, the permittee shall be given an opportunity to
present evidence on his/her behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the board
of appeals shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended or revoked.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Nothing herein shall prevent the village from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible. (Ord. 2005-11, 5-16-2005)
12-1-14: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. Where this chapter and other
ordinance, easements, covenants, or deed restrictions conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. This chapter
is intended to repeal the original ordinance or resolution which was adopted to
meet the national flood insurance program regulations, but is not intended to
repeal the resolution which the village passed in order to establish initial
eligibility for the program. (Ord. 2005-11, 5-16-2005)
TITLE 13
REAL PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS
CHAPTER 1
CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE
SECTION:
13-1-1: Title Insurance Reports
13-1-2: Village Inspection
13-1-3: Payment Of Village Debts Required
13-1-4: Inspection Fees
13-1-5: Temporary Certificate Of Compliance
13-1-6: Exempt Transfers
13-1-7: Penalty
13-1-1: TITLE INSURANCE REPORTS:
The requirement of an inspection of real estate shall be mandatory on all
transfers of ownership of real estate in the village. Said requirement shall
further be reflected on all real estate title insurance reports conducted
precedent to the transfer of ownership to give public notice of said mandatory
inspection. Copies of the ordinance codified in this chapter shall be sent to
all title insurance companies and the Cook County recorder of deeds with notice
that the mandatory inspection and village stamp is required on any transfer of
ownership of real estate in the village. (Ord. 09-25, 8-3-2009)
13-1-2: VILLAGE INSPECTION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Whenever any owner of real estate or the beneficial interest in a land
trust, or any person or agent acting on behalf of such owner, offers to sell
any real estate located within the village, said owner, person or agent shall
notify the village of such proposed sale.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Upon receipt of such notice, the village shall cause an inspection to
be made of the land, building and structure located upon such real estate, in
order to determine if it is in compliance with the provisions of this code that
pertain to health and safety.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Upon conclusion of said inspection, the building commissioner, or his
designee, shall notify the owner or agent of any violations of applicable codes
and, prior to the issuance of the certificate of compliance, a reinspection
shall be conducted to determine if the violations were corrected. A certificate
of compliance will be timely issued following the inspection or reinspection
and provided that all violations have been corrected and the real estate is in
compliance with this code. Upon presentation of the certificate of compliance,
the village will affix a stamp upon the original deed or document of transfer.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â If any owner, property agent, tenant, occupant or other person in
control of the real estate or a dwelling unit contained therein fails or
refuses to consent to free access and entry to the real estate or dwelling unit
under his control for any inspection pursuant to this chapter, the village may
apply to the circuit court of Cook County for an administrative search warrant
or other appropriate court order authorizing such inspection.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â The village does not warrant the condition of any property inspected
and shall not be responsible for any claims arising out of the property or the
condition thereof. The village does not warrant that all deficiencies related
to the real estate are listed in the certificate of compliance and does not
warrant anything as to the condition of the real estate or the liability
thereof. (Ord. 09-25, 8-3-2009)
13-1-3: PAYMENT OF VILLAGE DEBTS REQUIRED:
In addition to complying with this code relating to health and safety, a
certificate of compliance shall not be issued until all outstanding debts or
obligations due the village and related to the real estate in question have
been paid in full. (Ord. 09-25, 8-3-2009)
13-1-4: INSPECTION FEES:
The inspection fee for any such inspection made at the request of any buyer,
seller, real estate broker or any of their agents shall be at the following
rate schedule, payable in advance by the real estate owner at the time of the
request:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Condominium units and single-family units: One hundred dollars
($100.00).
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Two-family or three-family dwelling unit buildings: One hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00).
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Buildings with four (4) or more dwelling units: Two hundred twenty five
dollars ($225.00).
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Commercial and industrial buildings: Eleven cents ($0.11) per square
foot with a three hundred fifty dollar ($350.00) minimum.
After the real estate owner pays the fees specified in this section, the
village shall provide an initial inspection and, after the real estate owner
corrects any violation, a subsequent reinspection of the real estate. The
initial inspection report shall be valid for a period of thirty (30) days. For
any additional reinspection(s) required beyond the initial and reinspection, an
additional fee consistent with the above referenced fees shall be charged per
reinspection.
In the event that a temporary certificate of compliance is issued under section
13-1-5 of this chapter, the village shall, upon issuance of the certificate of
compliance, retain an administrative fee of one hundred seventy five dollars
($175.00) in addition to any costs and fees for the establishment and
maintenance of an escrow account, if applicable. The administrative fee shall
be deducted from the amount placed in escrow with the village as defined in
section
13-1-5 of this chapter.
In the event that a real estate owner wishes to have an inspection of their
property expedited, then an additional fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be
assessed in addition to the above referenced fees. (Ord. 09-43, 9-21-2009)
13-1-5: TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE:
In the event that all code violations are not abated and a certificate of
compliance is not issued prior to closing of said real estate, an owner may
sell, transfer or convey real property upon issuance of a temporary certificate
of compliance upon completion of the following conditions:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Written confirmation on an escrow agreement form provided by the
building commissioner on the part of the buyer, grantee or transferee
certifying to the village that such buyer, grantee or transferee has assumed
the obligation to abate all violations of this code that pertain to health and
safety within the time specified by the building commissioner or his designee;
and
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Based upon the violations of this code, the building commissioner shall
assign an amount to be deposited in an escrow account for the purpose of
ensuring the real estate is brought into compliance. The value of the escrow
shall be determined by the building commissioner or his designee and the escrow
amount shall be deposited prior to a temporary certificate of compliance and a
village stamp being issued.
If the new real estate owner fails to abate all violations within the time
period specified by the building commissioner or his designee, the new real
estate owner shall forfeit the entire escrow amount to the village. Forfeiture
of said escrow amount does not relieve the new real estate owner of the
obligation to abate any and all violations of this code listed in the escrow
agreement. Additionally, the new real estate owner shall be responsible for
abating any new violations of this code which have arisen since the
establishment of the escrow agreement. The building commissioner is authorized
to issue citations for any violations of this code starting thirty (30) days
following the surrender of the escrow amount; and
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Deposit of the reinspection fee with the village as a prepayment for
reinspection following the abatement of all violations.
The building commissioner shall have the right to deny a request for a
temporary certificate of compliance in his sole discretion. (Ord. 09-25, 8-3-
2009)
13-1-6: EXEMPT TRANSFERS:
The following transfers are exempt from the provisions of this chapter:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Transfers involving real property acquired by or from any governmental
body.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Transfers in which the deed, assignment, or other instrument of
transfer secures debt or other obligations and no new or additional parties
take possession of the property.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Transfers in which the deed, assignment, or other instrument of
transfer, without additional consideration, confirms, corrects, modifies or
supplements a deed, assignment, or other instrument of transfer previously
recorded or delivered.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Transfers in which the deed is a tax deed.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Transfers in which the deed, assignment, or other instrument of
transfer releases property which secures debt or other obligations.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Transfers in which the deed is otherwise pursuant to a court decree.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Transfers between a subsidiary corporation and its parent or between
subsidiary corporation of a common parent either pursuant to a plan of merger
or consolidation or pursuant to a plan of reorganization providing for the sale
of substantially all of the seller's assets.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Transfers from a subsidiary corporation to its parent for no
consideration other than the cancellation or surrender of the subsidiary's
stock and transfers from a parent corporation to its subsidiary for no
consideration other than the issuance or delivery to the parent of the
subsidiary's stock.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Transfers in which the deed or other instrument of transfer is issued
to the mortgagee or secured creditor pursuant to a mortgage or security
interest foreclosure proceeding or sale or pursuant to a transfer in lieu of
foreclosure.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Transfers in which an additional party is added to title and the
existing or prior titleholder remains in title and continues to reside at the
property.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Transfers by an executor or administrator to a legatee, heir, or
distributee where the transfer is being made pursuant to will or by intestacy.
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â Transfers from a decedent to an executor or administrator.
Â Â Â M.Â Â Â Transfers from an incompetent to a conservator or similar legal
representative, or from a conservator or similar legal representative to a
former incompetent upon removal of disability.
Â Â Â N.Â Â Â Transfers from a bankrupt or person in receivership due to insolvency
to the trustee in bankruptcy or receiver, from such receiver to such trustee,
or from such trustee to such receiver or upon redelivery or retransfer by any
such transferee or successor thereto.
Â Â Â O.Â Â Â Transfers from trustee to surviving, substitute, succeeding, or
additional trustees of the same trust.
Â Â Â P.Â Â Â Transfers upon the death of a joint tenant or tenant by the entirety to
the survivor.
Â Â Â Q.Â Â Â Transfers into or out of a land trust for no additional consideration
and where the titleholder or beneficial owner retains possession and continues
to reside at the property.
Â Â Â R.Â Â Â Upon the issuance of an occupancy permit to the owner of a newly
constructed building or structure which has not been previously occupied, the
building commissioner shall also issue to said owner a certificate of
compliance.
Â Â Â S.Â Â Â Such other transfers which are specifically exempted by Illinois or
federal law. (Ord. 09-25, 8-3-2009)
13-1-7: PENALTY:
Any firm, person or corporation who participates in a sale or transfer in
violation of this chapter as sellers, buyers, or agent shall be fined not less
than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for such offense. (Ord. 09-25, 8-3-
2009)
TITLE 14
PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
FALSE ALARMS
SECTION:
14-1-1: Imposition Of Fees For False Alarms
14-1-2: Definitions
14-1-3: False Alarm Notice And Determination
14-1-4: False Alarm Fees
14-1-5: Registration Of Alarm System
14-1-6: Display Of Life Safety Registration Permit
14-1-7: Authority To Create And Maintain Minimum Standards
14-1-8: Limitations As To The Village's Liability
14-1-1: IMPOSITION OF FEES FOR FALSE ALARMS:
The imposition of fees for false alarms shall apply to residential and
nonresidential alarm systems and shall be governed by the provisions of this
chapter as set forth herein. (Ord. 2014-01, 1-8-2014)
14-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
ALARM COORDINATOR: Means the person designated by the Chief of the Police and
Chief of the Fire Department, respectively, who shall have responsibility and
authority for enforcing the provisions of this chapter. There shall be one
Alarm Coordinator for each department.
ALARM SYSTEM: Means any assembly of equipment, mechanical, electrical or
wireless, arranged to signal the occurrence of a fire, robbery, illegal entry
or other activity requiring urgent attention and to which the Police or Fire
Departments are expected to respond.
ALARM USER: Means the person, other than a unit of local, State or Federal
government, in control of any building, structure or facility, including the
owner and/or lessee, wherein an alarm system is maintained.
AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICE: Means a device which is interconnected to a telephone
line and is programmed to select a predetermined telephone number and transmit
by voice message or code signal an emergency message indicating a need for
emergency response.
FALSE ALARM: Means an alarm signal eliciting a response by the Village Police
Department or the Village Fire Department when a situation requiring such a
response by them does not in fact exist, but does not include an alarm signal
caused by violent conditions of nature or other extraordinary circumstances not
reasonably subject to control by the alarm user, including power outages and
telephone service outages.
LOCAL ALARM SYSTEM: Means an alarm system which, when activated, causes an
audible and/or visual signaling device to be activated only on the premises
within which the system is installed and which is intended to be heard or seen
by others outside of the protected premises.
NONRESIDENTIAL ALARM SYSTEM: Means any alarm system installed or operated in a
building or structure that does not contain residential dwelling units. (Ord.
2014-01, 1-8-2014)
14-1-3: FALSE ALARM NOTICE AND DETERMINATION:
Within thirty (30) days after each false alarm, the Alarm Coordinator shall
notify the alarm user by mailing a notice to the address from which the false
alarm was received. If the alarm user believes that the alarm was not a false
alarm, he shall reply to the Alarm Coordinator within ten (10) days from the
date that the notice was issued, stating the reasons why the alarm was not a
false alarm. In the absence of such reply, the alarm shall be conclusively
presumed to be a false alarm. The Alarm Coordinator shall determine, based upon
department records and the user's reply, whether the alarm was false and so
notify the user of his determination. If the alarm is determined to be a false
alarm for which a fee is due, the user shall remit to the Village the
appropriate fee for such false alarm within thirty (30) days of notification by
the Alarm Coordinator. (Ord. 2014-01, 1-8-2014)
14-1-4: FALSE ALARM FEES:
An alarm user shall be assessed a fee for each false alarm in excess of two (2)
during any calendar year. The fees shall be assessed as hereinafter set forth:
Â 
Number Of False Alarms Fees Assessed
In Calendar Year       Police          Fire
First and second       No fee assessed No fee assessed
Third                  $ 50.00         $100.00
Fourth                 100.00          200.00
More than 4            200.00          400.00
Â 
(Ord. 2014-01, 1-8-2014)
14-1-5: REGISTRATION OF ALARM SYSTEM:
Within thirty (30) days of the installation or removal of an alarm system,
security or fire alarm within the Village, the owner of the property shall
register the alarm system with the Village or notify the Village of the
system's removal, unless the property is leased. If the property is leased, the
lessee of the property shall be responsible for registering the alarm system or
notifying the Village of the system's removal within thirty (30) days of the
installation or removal. The registration fee per alarm system shall be twenty
five dollars ($25.00) and thereafter an annual registration fee of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) shall be due each subsequent calendar year. Failure to
register an alarm system or to notify the Village of a system's removal shall
result in a fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 2014-01, 1-8-2014; amd.
Ord. 2020-7, 2-18-2020)
14-1-6: DISPLAY OF LIFE SAFETY REGISTRATION PERMIT:
Upon registration of an alarm system the Village shall issue to the alarm user
a permit sticker that shall be displayed in a conspicuous location upon the
premises. It shall be unlawful for the owner or lessee of an alarm system not
to display the issued permit.
A life safety registration permit is required for each business address
regardless of whether that address has its own alarm to register.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Life Safety Registration Permit:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â This section requires businesses to register their occupancy
classification with the Fire Department and is applicable to all businesses.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Only one life safety registration permit is required per business
and/or occupant space. However, life safety registration is required for each
tenant space in multi-tenant buildings. (Ord. 2014-01, 1-8-2014; amd. Ord.
2020-7, 2-18-2020)
14-1-7: AUTHORITY TO CREATE AND MAINTAIN MINIMUM STANDARDS:
The Chiefs of Police and Fire Departments may impose regulations prescribing
minimum standards for the construction and maintenance of all alarm systems and
requiring inspection and approval of all such systems. Such regulations shall
have the full force and effect of law upon their adoption by ordinance by the
Village Board after public hearing. (Ord. 2014-01, 1-8-2014)
14-1-8: LIMITATIONS AS TO THE VILLAGE'S LIABILITY:
The Village assumes no liability for any defects in the operation of any alarm
system or for the failure or neglect of any person associated with the
installation, operation or maintenance of an alarm system for the transmissions
of alarm signals; for the relaying of such signals and messages; for the
failure or neglect of any alarm user; for the transmission or receipt of alarm
signals; or for any failure or neglect to respond upon receipt of an alarm
signal from any source. In the event the Village finds it necessary to revoke
any direct connect alarm registration, or to otherwise provide for
disconnection of any alarm system, the Village shall have no liability for such
action. (Ord. 2014-01, 1-8-2014)
TITLE 15
QUASI-CRIMINAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PENALTY AND JUDICIAL REVIEW
SECTION:
15-1-1: Penalty
15-1-2: Parental Responsibility
15-1-3: Judgment
15-1-4: Judicial Review
15-1-1: PENALTY:
Whenever in this title, any act which is an offense, is prohibited or is made
or declared to be unlawful, the violation of any such provision of this title
shall be punished by a fine not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), unless otherwise stated, and every day
that such violation continues and exists shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense. All violations shall be prosecuted under the provisions of
the code hearing department as defined in title 1, chapter 13 of this code at
the village hall or such other place as designated by the corporate
authorities.
A penalty imposed for violation of this title may also include or consist of,
at the discretion of the hearing officer as defined in title 1, chapter 13 of
this code, a requirement that the defendant perform some reasonable public
service work such as, but not limited to, the picking up of litter in public
parks or along public highways or the maintenance of public facilities. (Ord.
09-48, 10-19-2009)
15-1-2: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
A parent or legal guardian is liable for any and all fines assessed against an
unemancipated minor who resides with such parent or legal guardian. (Ord. 09-
48, 10-19-2009)
15-1-3: JUDGMENT:
Any fine or any penalty imposed in accordance with this title and remaining
unpaid after the exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust, administrative
remedies created under this title and the conclusion of any judicial review
procedures shall be a debt due and owing, the village and, as such, may be
collected in accordance with the applicable law. Payment in full of any fine or
penalty resulting from an offense or violation under this title shall
constitute a final disposition of that violation. A default in the payment of a
fine or penalty or any installment of a fine or penalty may be collected by any
means authorized for the collection of monetary judgments. The village attorney
may retain attorneys and private collection agents for the purpose of
collecting any default in payment of any fine or penalty or installment of that
fine or penalty. Any fees or costs incurred by the village or any attorney fees
shall be charged to the defendant. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
15-1-4: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Judicial review of final determinations and final administrative decisions
regarding violations under this title shall be subject to the provisions of the
administrative review law as is set forth in 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
3-101 et seq., incorporated herein by reference. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 2
ADVERTISEMENTS
SECTION:
15-2-1: Posting
15-2-2: Distributing (Rep. by Ord. 2016-37, 9-6-2016)
15-2-3: Unlawful Businesses And Items
15-2-4: Defacing
15-2-1: POSTING:
It shall be unlawful to post any bills or advertisements on any public property
without authority of the Board of Trustees; and it shall be unlawful to post
any bill or advertisement on any private property without the written consent
of the owner of the property thereof. (Ord. 2016-37, 9-6-2016)
15-2-2: DISTRIBUTING:
(Rep. by Ord. 2016-37, 9-6-2016)
15-2-3: UNLAWFUL BUSINESSES AND ITEMS:
It shall be unlawful to advertise any unlawful business or item in the Village.
(Ord. 2016-37, 9-6-2016)
15-2-4: DEFACING:
It shall be unlawful to injure or deface any lawful advertisement or notice.
(Ord. 2016-37, 9-6-2016)
CHAPTER 3
ALCOHOL RELATED OFFENSES
SECTION:
15-3-1: Open Alcoholic Beverages
15-3-2: Public Intoxication
15-3-3: Sale Of Liquor From Packaged Liquor Stores
15-3-1: OPEN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to transport, carry, possess or have any
alcoholic liquor on any street, highway or public place in the village except
in the original package and with the seal unbroken, and except as provided by
Illinois state statute. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
15-3-2: PUBLIC INTOXICATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to be in an intoxicated condition on any
street or in any alley or public place of the village. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
15-3-3: SALE OF LIQUOR FROM PACKAGED LIQUOR STORES:
It shall be unlawful to sell any open alcohol from the premises of a packaged
liquor store. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 4
RESERVED
(Ord. 2014-01, 1-8-2014)
CHAPTER 5
ANIMALS
SECTION:
15-5-1: Definitions
15-5-2: General Provisions
15-5-3: Control Of Animals
15-5-4: Animal Bites
15-5-5: Dangerous Or Vicious Animal; Additional Requirements
15-5-6: Impoundment And Redemption Of Animals
15-5-7: Dog License Requirements
15-5-8: Rabies Inoculations
15-5-9: Estrus (In Heat)
15-5-10: Diseased Animals
15-5-11: Disposition Of Dead Animals
15-5-12: Violations; Penalty
15-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
Except where otherwise plainly declared or clearly apparent from the context,
words used herein shall be given their common and ordinary meaning. Any term
defined here not capitalized in this chapter shall be read with the definitions
ascribed herein. In addition, the following definitions shall apply:
ANIMAL: Means any living creature, domestic or wild, other than man, plants,
coral or fungi.
AUTHORIZED PERSON: Means a member of the Village of Broadview Police
Department, a member of Cook County Animal Control, or any other person acting
under the supervision of either agency, including any contractors retained by
the Village.
BITE: Means seizure of a person or other domestic animal with the jaws or teeth
of any animal capable of transmitting rabies so that the person so seized has
been wounded or pierced and further includes contact of the saliva of such
animal with any break or abrasion of the skin.
CAT: Means any member of the family Felidae.
COMPANION ANIMAL: Means any animal that is commonly considered to be or is
considered by the owner to be a pet and excludes any animal that is otherwise
prohibited by law.
CONFINED: Means restriction of an animal at all times by the owner, or his
agent, to an escape-proof building, house, or other enclosure away from other
animals and the public.
CONFINEMENT OF DOGS: Means that any person owning, harboring, or controlling a
male or female dog whether vaccinated or unvaccinated, licensed or unlicensed,
sterilized or unsterilized, shall always keep such animal from running at large
by either: a) securely confining such animal within an adequate fence or
enclosure, or within a house, garage, or other building or b) accompanying the
animal on a leash.
DANGEROUS DOG: Means:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any dog anywhere other than upon the property of the owner or custodian
of the dog and unmuzzled, unleashed or unattended by its owners or custodian
that behaves in such a manner that a reasonable person would believe poses a
serious and unjustified imminent threat of serious physical injury or death to
a person or companion animal; or
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â A dog that, without justification, bites a person or other domesticated
animal and does not cause serious physical injury.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Any animal owned, harbored, trained or used for fighting against
another animal or person.
DISEASED ANIMAL: Means any animal affected with a disease contagious or
infectious to both humans and animals.
DOG: Means any member of the family Canidae.
ENCLOSURE: Means a fence or structure of at least six feet (6') in height,
forming or causing an enclosure suitable to prevent the entry of young
children, and suitable to confine a vicious dog in conjunction with other
measures that may be taken by the owner or keeper, such as tethering of the
vicious dog within the enclosure. The enclosure shall be securely enclosed and
locked and designed with secure sides, top, and bottom and shall be designed to
prevent the animal from escaping from the enclosure. If the enclosure is a room
within a residence, it cannot have direct ingress from or egress to the
outdoors unless it leads directly to an enclosed pen and the door must be
locked. A vicious dog may be allowed to move about freely within the entire
residence if it is muzzled at all times.
FERAL CAT: Means a cat that:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Is born in the wild or is the offspring of an owned feral cat and is
not socialized; or
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Is a formerly owned cat that has been abandoned and is no longer
socialized; or
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Lives on a farm.
HAS BEEN BITTEN: Means has been seized with the teeth or jaws so that the
person or animal seized has been nipped, gripped, wounded, or pierced, and
further includes contact of saliva with any break or abrasion of the skin.
IMPOUNDED: Means taken into the custody of the public animal control facility
in the city, town, or county where the animal is found.
INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES: Means the injection of an anti-rabies vaccine as
documented by a licensed veterinarian and shall be subject to approval by the
Police Department.
INTACT ANIMAL: Means an animal that has not been spayed or neutered.
KENNEL: Means any establishment or premises where more than four (4) dogs or
four (4) cats or any combination thereof, over four (4) months of age are
boarded or kept for any purpose whatsoever, or on which more than two (2) such
animals are boarded for compensation or kept for sale, with the exception of
regularly established veterinary hospitals, pet shops, pounds or shelters.
LEASH: Means a cord, rope, strap, nylon strap, or chain which shall be securely
fastened to the collar or harness of a dog or other animal and shall be of
sufficient strength to keep such dog or other animal under control.
LICENSED VETERINARIAN: Means a veterinarian licensed by the State in which he
engages in the practice of veterinary medicine.
OWNER: Means any person having a right of property in an animal or keeps or
harbors an animal, or who has it in his or her care, or acts as custodian, or
who knowingly permits a dog or other domestic animal to remain on any premises
occupied by him or her. Owner does not include a feral cat caretaker who
participated in a trap, spay/neuter, return or release program.
PEACE OFFICER: Has the meaning ascribed to it in section 2-13 of the Criminal
Code of 2012.
PERSON: Means any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, society,
association or other legal entity, any public or private institution, the State
of Illinois, municipal corporation or political subdivision of the State, or
any other business unit.
PHYSICAL INJURY: Means the impairment of physical condition.
POLICE ANIMAL: Means an animal owned or used by a Law Enforcement Department or
agency in the course of the department or agency's work.
POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG: Means a dog that is unsupervised and found running
at large with three (3) or more other dogs.
POUND OR ANIMAL CONTROL FACILITY: May be used interchangeably and mean any
facility approved and licensed by the State of Illinois Department of
Agriculture or otherwise permitted to operate by law as a shelter for seized,
stray, homeless, abandoned, or unwanted dogs or other animals and as may be
approved by the Police Chief for sheltering abandoned and/or unwanted animals.
REGISTRATION: Means a printed form prescribed by the department for the purpose
of recording pertinent information as required by the department under this
Act.
RUNNING AT LARGE: Means any dog that is not controlled by a leash or in a
fenced yard or enclosure. All dogs on public sidewalks, parkways, streets and
other public property must be controlled by a leash, or the dog(s) shall be
considered running at large.
SECURE CONFINEMENT: Means securing the dog in an area from which the dog cannot
escape based on the size and breed of the dog, while providing for the humane
care of the animal while in confinement. Any dogs confined within a fenced yard
must have an adequate space for exercise based on the size of the dog. Dogs
shall not be chained, tied, fastened or otherwise tethered to dog houses,
trees, fences or other stationary objects as a means of confinement to property
unless otherwise provided herein. Persons who utilize "invisible fencing" to
contain any domestic animal must display prominently on their property
immediately adjacent to the public right-of-way a sign which indicates that any
domestic animal located thereon is contained by way of "invisible fencing".
Invisible fencing installed after the effective date of this chapter must be at
all times able to confine the domestic animal within the boundaries of the
owner's property.
STRAY ANIMAL: Means any animal running at large in the public way or on private
property other than that of the owner or keeper of such animal.
VICIOUS DOG: Means a dog that, without justification, attacks a person and
causes serious physical injury or death or any individual dog that has been
found to be a "dangerous dog" on three (3) separate occasions.
WILD ANIMAL: Means any animal that has not been domesticated including but not
limited to boa constrictors, poisonous snakes or other poisonous animals or
reptiles. (Ord. 2018-15, 6-8-2018)
15-5-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
It shall be unlawful to:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Inhumanely beat, underfeed, overload, abandon, or to cruelly treat any
animal.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Fail to provide any animal with proper shelter, protection from weather
or veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Own, keep, harbor or maintain within the Village any breed of fowl,
including but not limited to any that are or will be used in the pursuit of and
staging of cockfighting on any premises.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Promote, stage, hold, manage, conduct or carry on any animal fight of a
similar nature, nor any simulated version of same that involves baiting or
inciting an animal toward intent to fight.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Keep animals in violation of the Illinois Humane Care for Animals Act,
510 Illinois Compiled Statutes 70/1, et seq., the Illinois Animal Welfare Act,
225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 605/1, et seq., and Illinois Animal Control Act,
510 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1, et seq.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Intentionally strike any animal, including dogs, cats, Canadian geese,
ducks, or other wildlife with a motor vehicle. Dogs, cats, Canadian geese,
ducks, and other wildlife shall have the right-of-way when crossing streets
within the Village. Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes
an animal, shall stop at once and render such assistance as may be possible, or
shall immediately report such injury to the animal owner, if known; or to the
appropriate law enforcement agency; or to the local humane society.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Torment, shoot at with slingshots, BB or pellet type guns or other
firearms, pelt with rocks or otherwise disturb any animals, provided, however,
this provision shall not prohibit any method of nuisance wildlife mitigation
which has been approved by the Police Chief, or his or her designee, and which,
if and when required, has been authorized by the Illinois Department of Natural
Resources.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Poison or cause to be poisoned any domesticated animal. The only
exception will be by written permit from the Illinois Department of Agriculture
for the purpose of controlling diseases transmissible to humans or other
animals and only when all other methods and means have been exhausted. Any
drugs used for euthanasia shall be humane and shall be by or under the
direction of a licensed veterinarian.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Take the nest or eggs or young of any bird that is protected by Federal
or State law.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Keep or permit to be kept or display for exhibition purposes any wild
animal contrary to Federal, State, and local laws or regulations.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Leave any animal unattended in a motor vehicle or enclosed trailer when
the outside temperature exceeds eighty six degrees Fahrenheit (86Â°F) (30Â°C) or
contain any animal in such manner that said animal does not have proper air
circulation while confined in a motor vehicle, trailer, kennel, doghouse, or
any type of container or structure in which an animal may be confined.
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â Own any animal which is known to be infected with any disease
transmissible to other animals or man, including severe parasitism, unless such
animal shall be confined in such a manner as not to expose other animals or
man.
Â Â Â M.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any person to have, keep, maintain or have in
his possession or control within the Village any poisonous reptile or any
dangerous or carnivorous wild animal or vicious or dangerous domesticated
animal, including but not limited to baboons, chimpanzees, gorillas,
orangutans, bears, cheetahs, lions, tigers, alligators or crocodiles of a
length more than twelve inches (12"), snakes, coyotes, hyenas, jaguars,
leopards, lynxes, ocelots, margays, raccoons or wolves. This section shall not
apply to any duly licensed circus or animal exposition. (Ord. 2018-15, 6-8-
2018)
15-5-3: CONTROL OF ANIMALS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Unlawful Acts: It shall be unlawful:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â For the owner or any person who has in his or her custody or
control, any dog, cat, or other animal to enter upon the premises of another
within the Village without the consent of the owners.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â To permit any animal, whether licensed or not, to enter any public
body of water, pond, fountain or stream.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â To permit any animal to enter any place where food is stored,
prepared, served or sold to the public, or any public building or hall;
provided, however, that this section shall not apply to any visually impaired
or hearing-impaired person using a trained guide dog, to veterinary offices or
hospitals, or to animal shows or exhibitions.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â To permit any animal to run uncontrolled or trespass on private or
public property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â To permit any animal to damage or destroy any property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â To permit any dog to chase, run after or jump at vehicles using the
public thoroughfares.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â To allow any places where any animal is or may be kept to become
unclean or unsanitary or become offensive to those residing in the vicinity.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â To harbor or keep any live horse, cattle, swine, sheep or goat or to
raise any chickens, or fowl anywhere in the Village.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â For any person, other than a licensed kennel, pet shop or shelter
operator, to keep or harbor more than two (2) cats over the age of six (6)
months. The keeping of more than two (2) cats over the age of six (6) months is
declared to be a public nuisance and is declared to be detrimental to the
public health, safety and welfare.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â To keep on the premises more than three (3) dogs or any combination
thereof over four (4) months of age, or until the dog is weaned from its
mother, whichever comes first, or more than two (2) such dogs boarded for
compensation or kept for sale, with the exception of regularly established and
zoned veterinary hospitals, pet shops, pounds or shelters.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â With regard to excrement removal:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â For any person to cause or permit a dog to be on any property,
public or private, not owned or possessed by such person unless such person has
in his or her immediate possession a device for the removal of excrement and a
depository for the transmission of excrement to a receptacle located upon
property owned or possessed by such person.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â For any person in control of, causing or permitting any dog to be
on any property, public or private, not owned or possessed by such person to
fail to remove excrement left by such dog to a proper receptacle located on
property owned or possessed by such person.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 12.Â Â Â To fail to report an animal bite.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 13.Â Â Â To keep, harbor or maintain any animal which may endanger the
safety of persons or property. This includes animals other than commonly
recognized domestic pets which may harm or injure humans or other animals by
injection of toxins, by constriction or suffocation, or by vicious biting,
scratching or mauling. It is no defense to a violation of this subsection that
the keeper of such animal prohibited herein has attempted to domesticate such
animal. Exceptions to this subsection are animals displayed or harbored in a
properly licensed and duly regulated zoo, carnival or circus.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 14.Â Â Â To permit any dog, cat or other animal upon a public street or
highway, or upon any premises other than that of the person owning such dog,
cat or other animal unless such dog, cat or other animal is on a leash securely
fastened to a collar or harness and unless the owner has in his or her
immediate possession a device for the removal of excrement and a depository for
the transmission of excrement to a receptacle located upon property owned or
possessed by such person. The overall length of the leash including the handle
shall not exceed six feet (6') and be held by its owner or other person able to
control such dog, cat or other animal and, while lawfully on the premises of
the owner, shall not be allowed to come in contact with any person who is not a
member of the immediate household. Dogs over thirty (30) pounds shall not be
leashed on a retractable leash. The owner shall maintain control of his or her
dog at all times, including but not limited to dogs on traditional leashes and
on retractable leashes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 15.Â Â Â To permit any dog to habitually snap, growl, snarl, jump upon or
otherwise threaten persons lawfully using any common thoroughfare, sidewalk,
passageway, bypath, play area, park or any place where people congregate or
walk.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 16.Â Â Â To own, keep, harbor or maintain any vicious or dangerous animal or
animal with vicious propensities in a manner which may or does endanger the
safety of persons or property off the owner's premises or lawfully on the
owner's premises. Any dog, cat or other animal that has previously demonstrated
vicious propensities shall not be permitted upon a public street or highway, or
upon any premises other than those of the person owning such dog, cat or other
animal unless the dog, cat or other animal wears a muzzle securely fastened
about its mouth in such a manner that it cannot bite, and is on a leash
securely fastened to a collar or harness. The leash shall be a non-retractable
leash and shall have an overall length, including the handle, of not to exceed
three feet (3'), shall have a tensile strength of three hundred (300) pounds,
and shall be held by its owner or other person able to control such dog, cat or
other animal and, while lawfully on the premises of the owner, shall not be
allowed to come in contact with any person who is not a member of the immediate
household. Every dangerous or vicious animal allowed to be kept by State law
shall have a license. In order to obtain a license for a dangerous or vicious
animal, the owner of the animal shall present proof to the Village that the
owner has procured liability insurance in the amount of one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00), issued by an insurer authorized to underwrite risks in
this State, covering any damage or injury which may be caused by the dangerous
or vicious animal during the license period. The insurance policy shall contain
a provision that the Police Department will be notified thirty (30) days prior
to any cancellation of the policy. Each license shall bear a different number.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 17.Â Â Â To permit any dog or other animal to howl, yelp, whine, or bark or
make noise in such a manner as to disturb any person or neighborhood at any
time of the day or night.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 18.Â Â Â For any person to keep or maintain an animal which has been found
to be a vicious animal unless such animal is at all times kept in an enclosure.
The only times that a vicious animal may be allowed out of the enclosure are if
it is necessary for the owner or keeper to obtain veterinary care for the
vicious animal or to comply with the order of a court of competent
jurisdiction; provided, that said vicious animal is securely muzzled and
restrained with a chain having a tensile strength of three hundred (300) pounds
and not exceeding three feet (3') in length, and shall be under the direct
control and supervision of the owner or keeper of the vicious animal. Vicious
animals shall never be kept on a retractable leash.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Any animal which has been found to be a vicious animal and which
is not confined to an enclosure shall be impounded by the law enforcement
authority having jurisdiction in such area and shall be turned over to a
licensed veterinarian for destruction by lethal injection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â No owner or keeper of a vicious animal shall sell or give away
such vicious animal.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 19.Â Â Â For any person to maintain a public nuisance by permitting any
dangerous or vicious animal to leave the premises of its owner when not under
control by leash or other recognized control methods as provided herein.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Exemptions: Guide dogs for visually impaired or hearing- impaired
persons, support dogs for persons with physical disabilities, accelerant
detection dogs, and sentry, guard, or police owned dogs are exempt from this
section, provided an attack or injury to a person occurs while the dog is
performing duties as expected. To qualify for exemption under this subsection,
each such dog shall be currently inoculated against rabies in accordance with
section
15-5-8 of this chapter. It shall be the duty of the owner of such exempted dog
to notify the Police Department of changes of address. In the case of a sentry
or guard dog, the owner shall keep the Police Department advised of the
location where such dog will be stationed. The Police Department shall provide
all other necessary Village department heads or their designees with a
categorized list of such exempted dogs, and shall promptly notify such
departments of any address changes reported to him.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Complaint: The Village Attorney or Prosecutor may file a complaint to
enjoin all persons for maintaining or permitting such, to abate the same, and
to enjoin the owner of such dog or other animal from permitting the same to
leave his premises when not under control by leash or other recognized control
methods. (Ord. 2018-15, 6-8-2018)
15-5-4: ANIMAL BITES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any person, knowing that an individual has
been bitten by an animal, to refuse to notify, within twenty four (24) hours,
the authorized person. When the authorized person receives information that any
person has been bitten by an animal, the authorized person shall have the owner
confine the biting animal under observation of a licensed veterinarian for a
period of ten (10) days beginning within twenty four (24) hours of the biting
incident. The biting animal may be confined in the house of its owner in a
manner which will prohibit it from biting any person or animal if a licensed
veterinarian adjudges such confinement satisfactory.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â When the biting animal is currently inoculated with rabies vaccine, the
animal's health shall be reported by the veterinarian to the authorized person
of the Village and the Cook County Department of Animal and Rabies Control on
the first and tenth days of the observation period for rabies.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â When the biting animal is not currently inoculated with rabies vaccine,
the animal's health shall be reported by the veterinarian to the authorized
person of the Village and the Cook County Department of Animal and Rabies
Control on the first (1st), fifth (5th) and tenth (10th) days of the
observation period for rabies.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â It shall be the responsibility of the Broadview Police Department to
complete the Cook County animal dog bite card as soon as a bite is reported and
mail it to the Cook County Department of Animal and Rabies Control within
twenty four (24) hours.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Owners of caged rabbits, guinea pigs, hamsters, gerbils, rats and mice
that have been owned over thirty (30) days shall not be required to obtain a
veterinary examination when their caged animal has bitten a person, but shall
report the health of the biting animal by telephone or in person to the
authorized person of the Village and the Cook County Department of Animal and
Rabies Control on the first (1st) and tenth (10th) days following the bite.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for the owner of a biting animal to euthanize,
sell, give away or otherwise dispose of, or have inoculated against rabies, the
animal known to have bitten a person until it has been released from
confinement for observation for rabies.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â If the dog or other animal bites again during the confinement period,
it will be impounded for the full ten (10) day period commencing from the date
of the second bite. Owners allowing their dog or other animal to bite during
the confinement period will be subject to court citation. Owners not returning
their animals for follow-up examination on the appropriate dates will be in
violation and subject to court citation.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â The owner of said other animal shall be responsible for all fees and
charges incurred to meet the requirement of this section. (Ord. 2018-15, 6-8-
2018)
15-5-5: DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMAL; ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The owner of a dangerous or vicious animal shall have the license
number of the animal tattooed on the upper inner lip of the animal by a
licensed veterinarian.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The owner of a dangerous or vicious animal shall post a sign no smaller
than twenty four inches (24") square, bearing the legend "Warning - Dangerous
Animal" in print no smaller than three inches (3") high, and the license number
of the animal in print no smaller than one inch (1") high. The sign shall be
posted at the entry to the building in which the animal is kept, in such a way
as to be visible from the nearest public sidewalk. (Ord. 2018-15, 6-8-2018)
15-5-6: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION OF ANIMALS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Nuisance Animals; Impoundment Authorized: Any dog or other animal doing
any of the acts prohibited in section
15-5-4 of this chapter is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and such
animal may be seized and impounded as provided herein.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Notice To Owner; Impoundment Period; Disposition Of Animals: After such
animal is impounded, the Police Department, animal warden or authorized
representative shall ascertain whether the animal is licensed and, if so,
shall, within a reasonable time, notify the person to whom the license was
issued that said animal has been impounded and may be redeemed. All animals
impounded pursuant to this section shall be held for a minimum of seven (7)
calendar days after notification of the owner. In case any animal is not
released, it shall be humanely destroyed or otherwise disposed of; provided,
that none of said animals shall be used for experimental purposes.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Redemption Of Impounded Animal: Any dog or other animal impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this section may be redeemed upon payment of the
required redemption fee, fines, license and vaccination fees as provided
herein. The animal shall be returned to the owner, provided he shall:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Show satisfactory proof of ownership.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Pay any fines or penalties imposed for violation of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Pay the cost of keeping the animal while impounded by the Village at
its pound.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Secure an animal license or rabies vaccination, if applicable and
due.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Liability For Fines And Costs: If ownership of the animal is
established and the owner refuses to redeem the same, he shall remain obligated
to pay all fines and impoundment expenses. (Ord. 2018-15, 6-8-2018)
15-5-7: DOG LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â License Required: All dogs three (3) months of age or older harbored,
kept or maintained in the Village shall be licensed annually; provided,
however, that dogs kept in pet shops, pounds, shelters, hospitals or kennels
need not be licensed annually while kept at such pet shop, pound, shelter,
hospital or kennel.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Application For License: Applications for dog licenses shall be on
forms provided by the Village and shall be submitted with the annual fee to the
Village.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â License Fee: The annual fee to license each dog shall be twenty five
dollars ($25.00) or as specified from time to time as determined by the
Corporate Authorities.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Term Of License: The license period shall be from January 1 of each
year to December 31 of the same year.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â License Tag: Upon payment of the annual fee as provided, the Village
shall provide each owner with a license tag and a memorandum of registry on
each animal. The license tag shall be securely affixed to a substantial collar
and shall be worn by each dog at all times. Tags shall not be transferrable to
other animals and are nonrefundable.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Electronic Fences:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Any owner who seeks to utilize an electronic fence must complete a
separate form so indicating and submit that form with his or her license
application. A list of all electronic fence owners and their property addresses
will be kept by the Village and made available for inspection upon request.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Owners of electric fences must post an approved sign at an approved
location on the property indicating such fence is in use. (Ord. 2018-15, 6-8-
2018)
15-5-8: RABIES INOCULATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Inoculations Required: Except for animal shelters, animal impounding
facilities and laboratory animal facilities, every owner of a dog or cat four
(4) months or more of age shall cause such dog or cat to be inoculated with
rabies vaccine by a licensed veterinarian at such intervals as approved by the
Illinois Department of Agriculture. The rabies vaccine shall be licensed by the
United States Department of Agriculture and approved by the Illinois Department
of Agriculture.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Prerequisite To Dog License: No license for a dog shall be issued
unless the application for said license is accompanied by a certificate by a
veterinarian that said dog has received inoculations for rabies prevention
within the preceding year as required by this section.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Rabies Tag: Any dog or cat which is kept or maintained in the Village
shall display the Cook County rabies tag on the cat or dog. (Ord. 2018-15, 6-8-
2018)
15-5-9: ESTRUS (IN HEAT):
Every female dog or cat in heat shall be confined in a building or secure
enclosure in such a manner that such female dog or cat cannot come into contact
with another animal except for planned breeding. (Ord. 2018-15, 6-8-2018)
15-5-10: DISEASED ANIMALS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Running At Large, Removal From Premises Prohibited: No domestic animal
afflicted with a contagious or infectious disease shall be allowed to run at
large, or be exposed to any public place whereby the health of man or other
animals may be affected; nor shall such diseased animal be shipped or removed
from the premises of the owner, except under the supervision of an authorized
person.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Preventive Measures: It should be made the duty of such person so
authorized to secure such disposition of any diseased animal and secure
treatment of affected premises as to prevent the communication and spread of
contagion and infection, except as otherwise provided by law. (Ord. 2018-15, 6-
8-2018)
15-5-11: DISPOSITION OF DEAD ANIMALS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Time Limit For Disposition; Burial Places: It shall be unlawful for any
person to allow any dead animal which he or she owns to remain within the
Village for more than twenty four (24) hours. No such animal shall be buried
within the Village limits.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Exemptions From Provisions: The provisions of this section shall not
apply to the burial of birds. (Ord. 2018-15, 6-8-2018)
15-5-12: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined no less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) and no more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or
on which the violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 2018-15, 6-8-2018)
CHAPTER 6
ASSAULT AND BATTERY, FIGHTING
SECTION:
15-6-1: Unlawful
15-6-1: UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit an assault or battery or to fight
in any public place in the village. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 7
BARBED WIRE, ELECTRIC FENCES
SECTION:
15-7-1: Unlawful
15-7-1: UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain anywhere in the village a fence
equipped with or having barbed wire spikes or any similar device, or any
electric charge sufficient to cause shock, within seven feet (7') of the ground
level. This chapter shall not apply to invisible perimeter fences for the
retention of animals. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 8
DAMAGE TO PUBLIC PROPERTY
SECTION:
15-8-1: Unlawful
15-8-1: UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to injure, deface or interfere with any public
property without proper authority from the governing public body. (Ord. 09-48,
10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 9
DANGEROUS EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
15-9-1: Unlawful
15-9-1: UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any real property located within the
village to maintain or permit the existence upon such property of any
excavation, pit, hole, ditch or other manmade depression in the earth, which
endangers the public health, welfare and safety or the real or personal
property of another. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 10
DISORDERLY CONDUCT
SECTION:
15-10-1: Unlawful Activities
15-10-1: UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES:
A person commits disorderly conduct when that person knowingly:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Does any act in such unreasonable manner as to provoke, make or aid in
making a breach of peace; or
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Does or makes any unreasonable or offensive act, utterance, gesture or
display which, under the circumstances, creates a clear and present danger of a
breach of peace or imminent threat of violence; or
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Refuses or fails to cease and desist any peaceful conduct or activity
likely to produce a breach of peace where there is an imminent threat of
violence, and where the police have made all reasonable efforts to protect the
otherwise peaceful conduct and activity, and have requested that said conduct
and activity be stopped and explained the request if there be time; or
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Fails to obey a lawful order of dispersal by a person known by him to
be a police officer under circumstances which acts are likely to cause
substantial harm or serious inconvenience, annoyance or alarm; or assembles for
the purpose of using force or violence to disturb the public peace; or
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Goes about begging or soliciting funds on the public ways, except as
provided for by ordinance or upon lawful authority of the village; or
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Carries in a threatening or menacing manner, without authority of law,
any dagger, razor, dangerous knife, stiletto, knuckles, slingshot, billy, stun
gun or taser, crossbow, common or compound bows, underwater spear gun,
blackjack, sand club, sandbag, throwing star, nunchaku, broken bottle or other
piece of glass, air gun, air pistol, spring gun, spring pistol, BB gun,
paintball gun, pellet gun or any implement that is not a firearm which impels a
breakable paintball containing washable marking colors, or a pellet constructed
of hard plastic, steel, lead or other hard materials with a force that
reasonably is expected to cause bodily harm, look alike weapon which by its
appearance, including shape, color, size, markings or lack thereof, or any
other identifying physical characteristic, would lead a reasonable person to
believe that the object is a weapon which could cause bodily harm, an object
containing noxious or deleterious liquid, gas or substance or other dangerous
weapon; or
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â No person shall maliciously turn in or cause to be turned in a false
alarm including, but not limited to, abuse of the 911 system, filing false
police reports, or other improper usage of the police or fire dispatch system.
(Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 2014-65, 11-3-2014)
CHAPTER 11
DISTURBING ASSEMBLAGES
SECTION:
15-11-1: Unlawful
15-11-1: UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb any lawful assemblage or
gathering in the village. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 12
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
15-12-1: Prohibited
15-12-2: Sale Of Fireworks
15-12-3: Public Display
15-12-1: PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to sell, store, possess, discharge or set off any
fireworks or to give any pyrotechnic display in the village, except in
connection with public exhibitions as is herein provided. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-
2009)
15-12-2: SALE OF FIREWORKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, possess, offer for sale or keep
for the purpose of selling any fireworks in the village at any time. (Ord. 09-
48, 10-19-2009)
15-12-3: PUBLIC DISPLAY:
No public exhibition of fireworks or pyrotechnics shall be given unless a
permit therefor is first secured from the village. All such public displays
shall be under the supervision of a competent person, and shall be
superintended by the fire chief or some other member of the fire department
assigned this duty by him. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 13
GAMBLING
SECTION:
15-13-1: Prohibited
15-13-1-1: Video Gaming
15-13-2: Gambling Devices
15-13-3: Gambling Houses
15-13-4: Advertising
15-13-1: PROHIBITED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Generally: It shall be unlawful to gamble or to attend any gambling
resort or to make any bet, lottery or gambling hazard or to buy or sell any
chances or tickets in any gambling game, arrangement or device, except as
provided herein.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Sporting Events: It shall be unlawful for any person to place, make,
accept, relay, deliver or pay any wager or bet on any sporting event or other
competition.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Exceptions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Lottery: This chapter shall not apply to the lottery owned and
operated by the state, bingo, casino nights, raffles or such similarly situated
events hosted by not for profit organizations and which are allowed by the
state and which have received the necessary permitting from the state and
village.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Video Gaming: This chapter shall not apply to "video gaming" as
defined by the Illinois gaming act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40. (Ord.
13-71, 11-18-2013)
15-13-1-1: VIDEO GAMING:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Authority To Regulate: This section is passed pursuant to 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes sections 5/11-42-2 and 5/11-55-1, and 35 Illinois Compiled
Statutes section 510/1 et seq., 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/1 et seq.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Definitions:
Â Â Â  VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL: Any electronic video game machine that, upon
insertion of cash, electronic cards or vouchers or any combination thereof, is
available to play or simulate the play of a video game, including, but not
limited to, video poker, line up, and blackjack, as authorized by the village,
utilizing a video display and microprocessors in which the player may receive
free games or credits that can be redeemed for cash. The term does not include
a machine that directly dispenses coins, cash, or tokens or is for amusement
purposes only.
The village adopts the definitions contained within 230 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 40/5, "Definitions", and any amendments thereto.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â License Required: No person shall keep or display for operating or
patronage by the public within the village any video gaming terminal without
first having obtained a written license therefor from the village, which
license shall be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the
licensed premises, and such posted license may include more than one device on
such licensed premises. It shall be a prerequisite to any license from the
village that the person keeping the video gaming terminal have a valid license
from the state of Illinois for each such device and the loss or suspension of
any such license by the state of Illinois shall automatically result in the
same status for the license issued hereunder, without refund of any license
fee.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Fee: There hereby is imposed on the privilege of operating every video
gaming terminal in the village, as defined by the Illinois video gaming act,
230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/1 et seq., an annual fee of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) for each such device.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Application Form Required: An application for an amusement device
license shall be made to the village on forms furnished by the village. The
application shall set forth the number of video gaming terminals for which
permission is sought for a particular premises, shall describe the number and
type of each different device or machine that the applicant intends to operate
and shall be accompanied by payment of the appropriate fee. The applicant shall
include a copy of the license from the state of Illinois for each video gaming
terminal at that location.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Penalty: Violations of this section shall be subject to the general
penalty contained in title 1, chapter 4, "General Penalty", of this code. (Ord.
13-71, 11-18-2013)
15-13-2: GAMBLING DEVICES:
It shall be unlawful to possess any gambling device or paraphernalia with the
intent to use the same for an unlawful purpose, and any such device or
paraphernalia kept with such intent may be confiscated by the chief of police
or his designee. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
15-13-3: GAMBLING HOUSES:
It shall be unlawful to maintain or patronize any establishment maintained as a
gambling house or resort, except as authorized by the Illinois gaming act, 230
Illinois Compiled Statutes 40 et seq., and this chapter. (Ord. 13-71, 11-18-
2013)
15-13-4: ADVERTISING:
It shall be unlawful to advertise any gambling house or gambling resort on any
street, in any alley of public place within the village, except as authorized
by the Illinois gaming act, 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40 et seq., and this
chapter. (Ord. 13-71, 11-18-2013)
CHAPTER 14
INDECENT ACTIVITIES; FIGHTING
SECTION:
15-14-1: Unlawful Activities
15-14-1: UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any person to:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Profanity: Use profanity on any street, alley or other public place
in the village.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Indecent Publications: Keep any profane, obscene or adult
publication, printed or written matter, picture, product, or other
representation in any place frequented by or where it may come into the
possession of minors or to disclose or expose any such material to a minor.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Fighting: Knowingly start fights, fight or commit any assault or
battery in any public place in the village.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Adult Stores; Minors: Permit any person under the age of eighteen
(18) years old to be on the premises of any "adult store" or any other location
that houses an adult use, as defined in this code.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Urination And Defecation In Public: Urinate or defecate in or on a
public street, alley, sidewalk, yard, park, building, structure, plaza, public
or utility right of way, or other public place, other than in a restroom or in
public view. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 15
INTERFERING WITH VILLAGE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
15-15-1: Unlawful
15-15-1: UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful to interfere with or hinder any officer or employee of the
village while engaged in the duties of his office. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 16
LITTERING; VILLAGE PARKING LOTS
SECTION:
15-16-1: Prohibited
15-16-2: Village Parking Lots
15-16-1: PROHIBITED:
No person shall litter or otherwise cause the placement of garbage or trash in
a public place, including village owned parking lots, except in receptacles
designated for same. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
15-16-2: VILLAGE PARKING LOTS:
No person shall use village owned parking lots, except for parking purposes,
unless otherwise permitted; no person shall use village owned parking lots to
repair or maintain a vehicle parked therein. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 17
LOITERING
SECTION:
15-17-1: Definitions
15-17-2: Prohibited Acts
15-17-3: Violations
15-17-1: DEFINITIONS:
Definitions under this section shall be as follows:
LOITERING: Remaining idle in essentially one location and includes the concept
of spending time idly; to be dilatory; to linger; to sleep in a public place;
to stand around and shall also include the colloquial expression "hanging
around".
PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the general public has access and a right to
resort for business, entertainment, or other lawful purpose, but does not
necessarily mean a place devoted solely to the uses of the public. It shall
also include the front or immediate area of any store, shop, restaurant, tavern
or other place of business and also public grounds, areas, parks or schools.
(Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
15-17-2: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter, loaf, wander, stand or remain
idle either alone and/or in consort with others in a public place in such
manner so as to:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Obstruct any public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any
other public place or building by hindering or impeding or tending to hinder or
impede the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic or pedestrians.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Commit in or upon any public street, public highway, public sidewalk or
any other public place or building any act or thing which is an obstruction or
interference to the free and uninterrupted use of property or with any business
lawfully conducted by anyone in or upon or facing or fronting on any public
street, public highway, public sidewalk or any other public place or building,
all of which prevents the free and uninterrupted ingress, egress and regress,
therein, thereon and thereto. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
15-17-3: VIOLATIONS:
When any person causes or commits any of the conditions or acts enumerated in
this chapter, a police officer or any law enforcement officer shall order that
person to stop causing or committing such conditions or acts and to move on or
disperse. Any person who fails or refuses to obey such orders shall be guilty
of a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 18
MINORS
SECTION:
15-18-1: Definitions
15-18-2: Curfew Offenses
15-18-3: Curfew Defenses
15-18-4: Police Detention
15-18-5: Enforcement
15-18-6: Tobacco
15-18-7: Truancy
15-18-8: Vandalism
15-18-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following definitions apply:
CURFEW HOURS: A. Eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, or Thursday until six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of the following day;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â One minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. to six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
on Saturday; and
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â One minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. to six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
on Sunday.
EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit to
which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
GUARDIAN: A. A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of
a minor; or
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by the
court.
MINOR FOR PURPOSES OF CURFEW: Any person under seventeen (17) years of age.
OPERATOR: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
PARENT: A person who is:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â A natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent of another person; or
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â At least seventeen (17) years of age and authorized by a parent or
guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of death
or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss or
impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-
2009)
15-18-2: CURFEW OFFENSES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â A minor commits an offense if he remains in any public place or on the
premises of any establishment within the village during curfew hours.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if he knowingly
permits, or by insufficient control allows, the minor to remain in any public
place or on the premises of any establishment within the village during curfew
hours.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The owner, operator, or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of the
establishment during curfew hours. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
15-18-3: CURFEW DEFENSES:
It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the minor was:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home from
an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Involved in an emergency;
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor's presence;
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational activity
supervised by adults or sponsored by the village, a civic organization, or
another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to or
returning home from, without any detour or stop;
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Married or had been married or is an emancipated minor under the
emancipation of mature minor act, as amended.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â It is a defense to prosecution that the owner, operator, or employee of
an establishment promptly notified the police department that a minor was
present on the premises of the establishment during curfew hours and refused to
leave. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
15-18-4: POLICE DETENTION:
Each member of the police force is hereby authorized to take custody of without
warrant, any person violating any provisions of this chapter and retain such
person until he or she is turned over to the custody of the parent, guardian or
other person having the legal care and custody of such child. (Ord. 09-48, 10-
19-2009)
15-18-5: ENFORCEMENT:
Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a police officer shall
ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in the public place. The
officer shall not issue a citation or take custody of the minor under this
section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has occurred and
that, based on any response and other circumstances, no defense in this chapter
is present. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
15-18-6: TOBACCO:
See chapter 26 of this title. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
15-18-7: TRUANCY:
See chapter 28 of this title. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
15-18-8: VANDALISM:
See chapter 29 of this title. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 19
OBSCENE PUBLICATIONS AND PRODUCTIONS
SECTION:
15-19-1: Sales And Distribution
15-19-2: Sales Prohibited
15-19-3: Sale To Minors
15-19-1: SALES AND DISTRIBUTION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â It is unlawful for any person to knowingly sell, give, deliver,
present, publish or exhibit obscene material, or obscene productions of any
sort, including, but not limited to, writings, pictures, movies, performances,
acts, plays or dances, to any person.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â For the purpose of this section, a material or a production shall be
considered obscene if, applying contemporary community standards for the
average person to whom it is sold, given, delivered, presented, published or
exhibited:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â It, as a whole, appeals to the prurient interest; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â It contains either patently offensive representations or
descriptions of ultimate sexual acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated,
or patently offensive representations or descriptions of masturbation, erectory
functions and lewd exhibition of the genitals; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â It, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic, political or
scientific value or otherwise is not found to be obscene. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-
2009)
15-19-2: SALES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, or exhibit for sale, in sealed
form or in any form which indicates that the sale thereof is surreptitious or
contrary to law, any book, pamphlet or literature of any kind bearing the title
of some well known book of salacious character or bearing the title of a book
of which the contents are actually lewd, lascivious, obscene, immoral, or
indecent. It shall likewise be unlawful to sell or exhibit for sale, any book,
pamphlet or literature of any kind having anything about it which indicates
that its contents are of an obscene, immoral, lewd, lascivious or indecent
character; or to sell, offer or exhibit for sale, any of said materials under
the guise or pretense that the same is obscene, immoral, lewd, lascivious or
indecent; or in a manner that indicates concealment of anything as contrary to
law or immoral contained therein; or to use any pretense, trick, fraud,
artifice or device to convey the impression that such materials are lewd,
lascivious, indecent, obscene or immoral, whether such pretense, trick, fraud,
artifice or device is a misrepresentation in regard to the contents of the same
or not. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
15-19-3: SALE TO MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to exhibit, sell, offer to sell,
give away, circulate or distribute or attempt to distribute to any person under
the age of eighteen (18) years, any obscene book, pornographic material,
magazine, pamphlet, paper, writing, card, advertisement, circular, print,
picture, photograph, motion picture film, play, image, instrument, statue,
drawing or other material.
"Obscene" for the purpose of this section is defined as follows: Whether to the
average person under eighteen (18) years of age to whom the material is
exhibited, sold, offered for sale, given away, circulated or distributed,
applying contemporary community standards, the dominant theme of the material
taken as a whole appeals to prurient interests.
In determining whether the publication or other material is obscene and whether
the dominant theme of the material taken as a whole appeals to prurient
interests, consideration shall be given to whatever artistic, literary,
historical or educational value the publication or other material may have for
persons under the age of eighteen (18) years in the community and whether the
probability of the appeal to prurient interests is so great as to outweigh
whatever artistic, literary, historical, educational or other merit the
publication or other material may possess. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 20
CANNABIS AND CANNABIS PARAPHERNALIA
SECTION:
15-20-1: Definitions
15-20-2: Unlawful
15-20-3: Parental Responsibility
15-20-4: Exempt Items; Determination
15-20-5: Considerations
15-20-6: Incorporation By Reference
15-20-1: DEFINITIONS:
CANNABIS: Includes marijuana, hashish and other substances which are identified
as including any part of the plant Cannabis sativa, whether growing or not; the
seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and any
compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of such plant,
its seeds or resin, including tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other
cannabinol derivatives, including its naturally occurring or synthetically
produced ingredients, whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction, or
independently by means of chemical synthesis or by a combination of extraction
and chemical synthesis; but shall not include the mature stalks of such plant,
fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant,
any other compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of
such mature stalks (except the resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake
or the sterilized seed of such plant which is incapable of germination.
â€œCannabisâ€ does not include industrial hemp as defined and authorized under the
Industrial Hemp Act. â€œCannabisâ€ also means concentrate and cannabis-infused
products.
CANNABIS PARAPHERNALIA: Includes all equipment, products and materials of any
kind which are peculiar to, or marketed for use, or are used, in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or
otherwise introducing into the human body cannabis in violation of the cannabis
control act. It includes, but is not limited to:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Kits peculiar to and marketed for use, or used in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing cannabis;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Isomerization devices peculiar to, or marketed for use, or used in
increasing the potency of any species of plant which is cannabis;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Testing equipment peculiar to, or marketed for private home use in, or
used for, identifying or analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of
cannabis;
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Diluents and adulterants peculiar to, or marketed for use in, or used
for, cutting cannabis or a controlled substance by private persons;
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Objects peculiar to, marketed for use in, or used for ingesting,
inhaling, or otherwise introducing cannabis, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil
into the human body including, where applicable, the following terms:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Water pipes;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Carburetion tubes and devices;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Smoking and carburetion masks;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Carburetor pipes;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Electric pipes;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Air driven pipes;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Chillums;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Bongs;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Ice pipes or chillers;
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Any item whose purpose, as announced or described by the seller, is for
use in violation of this section. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 2019-28,
12-2-2019)
15-20-2: UNLAWFUL:
It is unlawful for any person knowingly to possess any quantity of any
substance containing cannabis and/or paraphernalia as described herein for the
use thereof, except where authorized by the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
410 Illinois Compiled Statutes 705/1-1 et seq., or the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, 410 Illinois Compiled Statutes 130/1 et
seq.
It is unlawful for any person knowingly to manufacture, produce, deliver, or
possess with intent to deliver or manufacture cannabis unless the person is a
cannabis testing facility, a community college cannabis vocational training
pilot program faculty participant, a craft grower, a cultivation center, a
dispensing organization, an infuser organization, a processing organization, or
a transporting organization authorized to do such by the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, 410 Illinois Compiled Statutes 705/1-1 et seq., or the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, 410 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 130/1 et seq. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 2019-28, 12-2-2019)
15-20-3: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â It is unlawful for any parent or guardian to knowingly permit his or
her residence, any other private property under his or her control, or any
vehicle, conveyance, or watercraft under his or her control to be used by an
invitee of the parentâ€™s child or the guardianâ€™s ward, if the invitee is under
the age of twenty one (21), in a manner that constitutes a violation of this
chapter. A parent or guardian is deemed to have knowingly permitted his or her
residence, any other private property under his or her control, or any vehicle,
conveyance, or watercraft under his or her control to be used in violation of
this chapter if he or she knowingly authorizes or permits consumption of
cannabis by underage invitees in a manner that constitutes a violation of this
chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â It is unlawful for any parent or guardian to transfer cannabis, with or
without remuneration, to a person under twenty one (21) years of age, or to
allow a person under twenty one (21) years of age to purchase, possess, use,
process, transport, grow, or consume cannabis except where authorized by the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act or by the Community
College Vocational Pilot Program. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 2019-28,
12-2-2019)
15-20-4: EXEMPT ITEMS; DETERMINATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Items marketed for the use in the preparation, compounding, packaging,
labeling, or other use of cannabis as an incident to lawful research, teaching,
or chemical analysis and not for sale; or
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Items marketed for, or historically and customarily used in connection
with the planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, or inhaling of tobacco or any other lawful substance.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Items exempt under this section include, but are not limited to, garden
hoes, rakes, sickles, baggies, tobacco pipes, and cigarette rolling papers.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Items which are marketed for decorative purposes, when such items have
been rendered completely inoperable or incapable of being used for any illicit
purpose prohibited by this section. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
15-20-5: CONSIDERATIONS:
In determining whether or not a particular item is exempt under this chapter,
all other logically relevant factors should be considered, including the
following:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The general, usual, customary, and historical use to which the item
involved has been put;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Expert evidence concerning the ordinary or customary use of the item
and the effect of any peculiarity in the design or engineering of the item upon
its functioning;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Any written instructions accompanying the delivery of the item
concerning the purposes or uses to which the item can or may be put;
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Any oral instructions provided by the seller of the item at the time
and place of sale or commercial delivery;
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Any national or local advertising, concerning the design, purpose or
use of the item involved, and the entire context in which such advertising
occurs;
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â The manner, place and circumstances in which the item was displayed for
sale, as well as any item or items displayed for sale or otherwise exhibited
upon the premises where the sale was made;
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Whether the owner or anyone in control of the object is a legitimate
supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a licensed
distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
15-20-6: INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE:
The Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, 410 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 130/1 et seq., the Cannabis Control Act, 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 55/1 et seq., and the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, P.A.
101-0027 (collectively, the â€œActsâ€), are hereby incorporated into this code as
applicable. If any part of this code is inconsistent with such Acts, the terms
of the Acts shall apply. Any conduct which constitutes a violation of the Acts
is hereby declared to be a violation of this code and may be prosecuted as an
ordinance violation, the section number of the Code of Ordinances having the
same number as the applicable section of the Acts; provided that this clause
shall not apply to a violation of any part of the Acts which fall under the
exclusive jurisdiction of the State of Illinois. (Ord. 2019-28, 12-2-2019)
CHAPTER 21
PROSTITUTION
SECTION:
15-21-1: Definitions
15-21-2: Solicitation
15-21-3: Violation
15-21-4: Vehicle Impoundment
15-21-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter:
PROSTITUTION, PANDERING AND SOLICITING FOR A PROSTITUTE: Have the same meanings
given them in the Illinois criminal code, as amended.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any street, sidewalk, bridge, alley or alleyway, plaza, park,
driveway, parking lot or transportation facility or the doorways and
entranceways to any building which fronts on any of the aforesaid places, or a
motor vehicle in or on any such place, or any other public way. (Ord. 09-48,
10-19-2009)
15-21-2: SOLICITATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any person who remains or wanders about in a public place and beckons
to, or repeatedly attempts to engage passersby in conversation, or repeatedly
interferes with the free passage of other persons, for the purpose of
prostitution or of soliciting for a prostitute, shall be guilty of a violation
of this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Any person who remains or wanders about in a public place and beckons
to, or repeatedly stops, or repeatedly attempts to stop, or repeatedly attempts
to engage passersby in conversation, or repeatedly stops or attempts to stop
motor vehicles, or repeatedly interferes with the free passage of other
persons, for the purpose of pandering shall be guilty of a violation of this
section. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
15-21-3: VIOLATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any person who appears in a public place and exposes the genitals,
vulva, pubis, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anus, anal region or pubic hair
region, or any portion of the female breast at or below the upper edge of the
areola, for the purpose of prostitution shall be guilty of a violation of this
chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Any person who responds to the beckoning of a prostitute in a public
place by inquiring about, negotiating for, accepting an offer of or engaging in
an act of prostitution, or by allowing another into his or her motor vehicle
for purposes of inquiring about, negotiating for, accepting an offer of or
engaging in an act of prostitution, shall be guilty of a violation of this
chapter. The chief of police shall make available to local newspapers, radio
and television stations the names of all persons charged with violating this
chapter. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
15-21-4: VEHICLE IMPOUNDMENT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â A motor vehicle that is used in the violation of this chapter or in the
commission of prostitution, soliciting for a prostitute, soliciting for a
juvenile prostitute as, or patronizing a juvenile prostitute, shall be subject
to seizure and impoundment as provided in title 7, chapter 4.2 of this code.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a vehicle
is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this section, the police
officer shall provide for the towing of the vehicle to a facility controlled by
the city or its agents. When the vehicle is towed, the police officer shall
notify the person who is found to be in control of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation, if there is such a person, of the fact of the seizure
and of the vehicle owner's right to request a preliminary hearing. (Ord. 09-48,
10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 22
PUBLIC NUDITY
SECTION:
15-22-1: Definition
15-22-2: Prohibited
15-22-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this chapter, "nudity" means the display of the human male or female
genitalia; pubic hair; buttocks; perineum; anal or pubic regions; female
breast, at or below the areola thereof, with no covering or with a less than
fully opaque covering; or, male genitalia, in a discernible turgid state, with
or without covering. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
15-22-2: PROHIBITED:
No person shall knowingly or intentionally, in a public place other than a
nonretail adult business, appear in a state of nudity in the village. This
section shall not apply to public nudity necessarily incidental to
breastfeeding a child. "Public place" shall, for the purposes of this chapter,
mean any place, or a part of a place, to which the public, or a section of the
public, ordinarily has access, whether or not by payment or by invitation
(including, for example, a shop, restaurant, hotel, cinema or club). (Ord. 09-
48, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 23
REFUSE DEPOSITS
SECTION:
15-23-1: Unlawful Activities
15-23-1: UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Windblown Refuse: Deposit or leave any refuse or material in such a
place or condition that it can be blown by the wind so as to be scattered or
cause clouds of dust or particles; and it shall be unlawful to permit the
escape of soot, ashes or other solid products or results of combustion so as to
be windblown or scattered.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Deposits On Streets: Dump or deposit, or cause to be dumped or
deposited any grass, leaves, branches, garbage, refuse, hazardous or harmful
materials, or any other things in the roadway or gutter of any public street in
the village. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 24
RESISTING ARREST
SECTION:
15-24-1: Unlawful
15-24-1: UNLAWFUL:
Whoever in the village shall resist any member of the police force or any other
person duly authorized to perform police duty in the discharge of his duties,
or shall in any way interfere with, prevent or hinder him in the discharge of
his duty as such member, or shall offer or endeavor to do so shall be punished
as provided in chapter 1 of this title. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 25
RETAIL THEFT
SECTION:
15-25-1: Prohibited
15-25-2: Definitions
15-25-3: Violation
15-25-4: Right To Detain
15-25-5: Dollar Limit Enforcement
15-25-1: PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit an act of retail theft within the
village limits. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
15-25-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
FULL RETAIL VALUE: The merchant's stated or advertised price of the
merchandise.
LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian, or given custody, of a minor by a
circuit court of the state, but does not include a person appointed guardian,
or given custody, of a minor under the juvenile court act of 1987, 705 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 405/1 et seq.
MERCHANDISE: Any item of tangible personal property.
MERCHANT: An owner or operator of any retail mercantile establishment or any
agent, employee, lessee, consignee, officer, director, franchisee or
independent contractor of such owner or operator.
MINOR: A person who is above eleven (11) years but not yet eighteen (18) years
of age.
PARENT: The lawful father and mother of a minor child, whether by birth or
adoption.
PERSON: Any natural person or individual.
POLICE OFFICER: Has the meaning and encompasses the powers and duties ascribed
to that term in this code and Illinois law.
PREMISES OF A RETAIL MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT: Includes, but is not limited to,
the retail mercantile establishment; any common use areas in shopping centers
and all parking areas set aside by a merchant or on behalf of a merchant for
the parking of vehicles for the convenience of the patrons of such retail
mercantile establishment.
RETAIL MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT: Any place where merchandise is displayed,
held, stored or offered for sale to the public.
SHOPPING CART: Those pushcarts of the type or types which are commonly provided
by grocery stores, drugstores or other retail mercantile establishments for the
use of the public in transporting commodities in stores and markets and,
incidentally, from the stores to a place outside the store.
THEFT DETECTION REMOVAL DEVICE: Any tool or device specifically designed and
intended to be used to remove any theft detection device from any merchandise.
THEFT DETECTION SHIELDING DEVICE: Any laminated or coated bag or device
designed and intended to shield merchandise from detection by an electronic or
magnetic theft alarm sensor.
TO CONCEAL MERCHANDISE: Although there may be some notice of its presence, that
merchandise is not visible through ordinary observation.
UNDER RING: To cause the cash register or other sales recording device to
reflect less than the full retail value of the merchandise. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-
2009)
15-25-3: VIOLATION:
A person commits the offense of retail theft when he or she knowingly:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Takes possession of, carries away, transfers or causes to be carried
away or transferred any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale
in a retail mercantile establishment with the intention of retaining such
merchandise or with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use or benefit of such merchandise without paying the full retail
value of such merchandise; or
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Alters, transfers, or removes any label, price tag, marking, indicia of
value or any other markings which aid in determining value affixed to any
merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale, in a retail mercantile
establishment and attempts to purchase such merchandise personally or in
consort with another at less than the full retail value with the intention of
depriving the merchant of the full retail value of such merchandise; or
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Transfers any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale,
in a retail mercantile establishment from the container in or on which such
merchandise is displayed to any other container with the intention of depriving
the merchant of the full retail value of such merchandise; or
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Under rings with the intention of depriving the merchant of the full
retail value of the merchandise; or
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Removes a shopping cart from the premises of a retail mercantile
establishment without the consent of the merchant given at the time of such
removal with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use or benefit of such cart; or
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Represents to a merchant that he or another is the lawful owner of
property, knowing that such representation is false, and conveys or attempts to
convey that property to a merchant who is the owner of the property in exchange
for money, merchandise credit or other property of the merchant; or
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Uses or possesses any theft detection shielding device or theft
detection device remover with the intention of using such device to deprive the
merchant permanently of the possession, use or benefit of any merchandise
displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a retail mercantile
establishment without paying the full retail value of such merchandise; or
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner and
thereby intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of the
property when a lessee of the personal property of another fails to return it
to the owner, or if the lessee fails to pay the full retail value of such
property to the lessor in satisfaction of any contractual provision requiring
such, within ten (10) days after written demand from the owner for its return.
A notice in writing, given after the expiration of the leasing agreement, by
registered mail, to the lessee at the address given by the lessee and shown on
the leasing agreement shall constitute proper demand. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
15-25-4: RIGHT TO DETAIN:
Any merchant who has reasonable grounds to believe that a person has committed
retail theft may detain such person, on or off the premises of a retail
mercantile establishment, for all or any of the following purposes:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â To request and to verify any and all identification;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â To make reasonable inquiry as to whether such person has in his
possession unpurchased merchandise and, to make reasonable investigation as to
the ownership of the merchandise;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â To inform a peace officer of the detention of the person and surrender
that person to the custody of a peace officer; and/or
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â In the case of a minor, to immediately make a reasonable attempt to
inform the parents, guardian or other private person interested in the welfare
of that minor and, at the merchant's discretion, a police officer, of the
minor's detention and to surrender custody of such minor to either the minor's
parents, guardian, private interested person or police officer. A merchant may
make a detention as permitted herein off the premises of a retail mercantile
establishment only if such detention is pursuant to an immediate pursuit of
such person. Merchant shall be deemed to have reasonable grounds to make a
detention for the purposes of this section if the merchant detains a person
because such person has in his possession either a theft detection shielding
device or a theft detection device remover.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â In the case of a minor person who is accused of violating any of the
provisions of this section and who is residing with a parent or guardian at the
time of such purported violation, the juvenile department of the village police
department shall, within three (3) days thereof, notify such parent or
guardian, in writing, either by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, that such minor has been accused of retail theft. (Ord. 09-48, 10-
19-2009)
15-25-5: DOLLAR LIMIT ENFORCEMENT:
The code hearing department of the village as defined in title 1, chapter 13 of
this code shall only enforce the provisions of this chapter if the retail value
of the item subject to retail theft is less than one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00). (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 26
TOBACCO
SECTION:
15-26-1: Persons Under Twenty One (21) Years Of Age
15-26-2: Vending Machines
15-26-3: Lunch Wagons
15-26-4: Sale And Distribution Of Cigarettes
15-26-1: PERSONS UNDER TWENTY ONE (21) YEARS OF AGE:
No person under twenty one (21) years of age shall buy any cigar, cigarette,
smokeless tobacco, tobacco in any of its forms, electronic cigarettes or
alternative nicotine products. No person shall sell, purchase for, distribute
samples of or furnish any cigar, cigarette, smokeless tobacco, tobacco in any
of its forms, electronic cigarettes or alternative nicotine products to any
person under twenty one (21) years of age. For the purpose of this chapter,
"smokeless tobacco" means any tobacco products that are suitable for dipping or
chewing. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009; amd. Ord. 2019-21, 8-5-2019)
15-26-2: VENDING MACHINES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Tobacco products, electronic cigarettes and alternative nicotine
products may be sold through a vending machine only in the following locations:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Factories, businesses, offices, private clubs, and other places not
open to the general public.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Places to which persons under twenty one (21) years of age are not
permitted access at any time.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Places where alcoholic beverages are sold and consumed on the
premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Places where the vending machine is under the direct supervision of
the owner of the establishment or an employee over twenty one (21) years of
age. The sale of tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, or alternative
nicotine products from a vending machine under direct supervision of the owner
or an employee of the establishment is considered a sale of tobacco products,
electronic cigarettes, or alternative nicotine products by that person. As used
in this subsection, "direct supervision" means that the owner or employee has
an unimpeded line of sight to the vending machine. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009;
amd. Ord. 2019-21, 8-5-2019)
15-26-3: LUNCH WAGONS:
The sale or distribution of cigarettes from a lunch wagon engaging in any sales
activity within one thousand feet (1,000') of any public or private elementary
or secondary school grounds is prohibited. For the purpose of this section,
"lunch wagon" means a mobile vehicle designed and constructed to transport food
and from which food is sold to the general public. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
15-26-4: SALE AND DISTRIBUTION OF CIGARETTES:
It shall be unlawful to sell individual cigarettes or cigars (if packed in
multiple sealed units) in any quantities less than a full sealed pack. (Ord.
09-48, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 27
TRESPASSES
SECTION:
15-27-1: Unlawful
15-27-1: UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit a trespass within this
municipality upon either public or private property. Without constituting any
limitation upon the provisions of this section, any of the following acts by
any person shall be deemed included among those that constitute trespasses in
violation of the provisions hereof and appropriate action may be taken
hereunder at any time, or from time to time, to prevent or suppress any
violation or violations of this section, the aforesaid enumerated acts so
included, being as follows:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any entry upon the premises or any part thereof, of another, including
any public property in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at the main
entrance to such premises or at any point of approach or entry or in violation
of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing, by any owner or
occupant thereof; or
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â An entry into or upon any vehicle or watercraft made without the
consent of the person having the right to the possession or control thereof, or
a failure or refusal to leave any such vehicle or watercraft after being
requested to leave by the person having such right; or
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â A failure or refusal to depart from the premises of another in case of
being requested either orally or in writing, to leave by any owner or occupant
thereof; or
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The pursuit of a course of conduct or action incidental to the making
of an entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or
exhibited at the main entrance to such premises or any point of approach or
entry, or in violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in
writing by any owner or occupant thereof. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 28
TRUANCY
SECTION:
15-28-1: Definitions
15-28-2: Absence
15-28-3: Presence On Public Way
15-28-4: Parental Responsibility
15-28-5: Community Service
15-28-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian, or given custody, of a minor by a
circuit court of the state, but does not include a person appointed guardian or
given custody of a minor under the juvenile court act of 1987, 705 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 405/1 et seq.
MINOR: Any person over five (5) but who shall not have reached eighteen (18)
years of age.
PARENT: The lawful father or mother of a minor child whether by birth or
adoption.
UNEMANCIPATED MINOR: A minor still under the care and custody of his parents.
(Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
15-28-2: ABSENCE:
It shall be unlawful for any minor enrolled in a public, private or parochial
school within the corporate limits of the village to absent himself from
attendance at such school without prior written permission of his parent or
legal guardian having been filed with the proper school authorities.
Emergencies or unforeseen absences due to illness or other causes beyond the
control of the absentee minor shall not constitute truancy if permission for
such absence has, in substance, been obtained from the parent or legal
guardian, and such permission is confirmed in writing and filed with the proper
school authorities within twenty four (24) hours after such absence. (Ord. 09-
48, 10-19-2009)
15-28-3: PRESENCE ON PUBLIC WAY:
It shall be unlawful for any juvenile, between the age of seven (7) and sixteen
(16) years who is subject to compulsory school attendance pursuant to the
Illinois school code, whether attending a public, private or parochial school,
who has been expelled or suspended from attending such school, and who is not
otherwise subject to the truancy laws established by the Illinois school code,
to be upon any public road, street, alley, park or other lands used for public
purposes or in any public place of business or amusement within the village
during the daytime hours when such schools are in session. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-
2009)
15-28-4: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
It shall be unlawful for a parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor
residing with said parent or legal guardian to knowingly allow or knowingly
permit said minor child to violate or attempt to violate any portion of this
chapter. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
15-28-5: COMMUNITY SERVICE:
In addition to or in lieu of the penalties applicable to this chapter a period
of community service not to exceed one hundred sixty (160) hours may be imposed
upon a minor who violates any provision of this chapter. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-
2009)
CHAPTER 29
VANDALISM
SECTION:
15-29-1: Definitions
15-29-2: Prohibited
15-29-3: Parental Responsibility
15-29-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms
specified have the following meanings ascribed to them:
ACTS OF VANDALISM: Include any of the following:
Recklessly or knowingly damaging or destroying any property of another person
without his or her consent; or
Recklessly or knowingly by means of fire or explosive device, damaging,
debasing or destroying any property of another person without his or her
consent; or
Recklessly or knowingly starting a fire on land of another person without his
or her consent; or
Recklessly or knowingly depositing on the land or in the building of another
person, without his consent, any stink bomb, any offensive smelling compound or
any other offensive or dangerous compound or item and thereby interfering with
the use and occupancy by another, of the land or building; or
Recklessly or knowingly and without authority entering into or obtaining
control over any building, house trailer, motor vehicle, aircraft or
watercraft, or any part thereof, of another person without his or her consent.
LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian or given custody of a minor by a
circuit court of the state, but does not include a person appointed guardian or
given custody of a minor under the juvenile court act.
MINOR: A person who is above the age of eleven (11) years, but not yet eighteen
(18) years of age.
PERSON: Includes any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company or organization of any kind.
PROPERTY: Includes any real estate including improvements thereon, and tangible
personalty.
RESTITUTION: Includes paying to a person who owns property damaged or destroyed
by an act of vandalism in an amount equal to the damages incurred as a result
of the act of vandalism and shall also include undertaking at the direction of
the police department juvenile officer tasks designed to correct damage
resulting from acts of vandalism or other work which will provide a benefit to
the village and its citizens. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
15-29-2: PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully, maliciously or negligently
break, deface, injure or destroy any property within the village, whether such
property is owned by the state, county, village or any other governmental body
or owned by any private person. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
15-29-3: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
Upon the occurrences of the events described as follows, the parent or legal
guardian of an unemancipated minor residing with such parent or legal guardian
shall be presumed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, to have failed
to exercise proper parental responsibility, and said minor shall be deemed to
have committed the acts described below with the knowledge and permission of
the parent or guardian, in violation of this chapter:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â An unemancipated minor residing with said parent or legal guardian
shall either be adjudicated to be in violation of any ordinance, law or statute
by exhibiting wilful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or property
or shall have incurred nonjudicial sanctions from another official agency
resulting from an admission of guilt of violation of any ordinance, law or
statute prohibiting wilful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or
property; and
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â If any time within one year following receipt of the notice set forth
above, said minor is either adjudicated to be in violation of any ordinance,
law or statute as described in subsection A of this section, or shall have
incurred nonjudicial sanctions from another official agency resulting from an
admission of guilt of violation of any ordinance, law or statute as described
in subsection A of this section. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 30
WEAPONS
SECTION:
15-30-1: Dangerous Weapons
15-30-2: Concealed Weapons
15-30-3: Discharge Of Firearms
15-30-4: Hunting
15-30-1: DANGEROUS WEAPONS:
The sale and use of bows and arrows, BB guns, slingshots and other dangerous
weapons is prohibited except as otherwise provided. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
15-30-2: CONCEALED WEAPONS:
It shall be unlawful to carry any concealed weapons in the village without
first having a license to carry such concealed weapon duly issued under the
laws of the state of Illinois. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
15-30-3: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS:
It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearms or air gun in the village;
provided that this section shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of
the law to discharge a firearm in the performance of his duty, nor any citizen
to discharge a firearm when lawfully defending his person or property. (Ord.
09-48, 10-19-2009)
15-30-4: HUNTING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to hunt or to engage in killing any animal
other than as prescribed by law in the village. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
CHAPTER 31
WHISTLES AND TRAINS
SECTION:
15-31-1: Unlawful
15-31-1: UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful to blow or cause to be sounded any whistle or siren of any
stationary engine or steam engine in the village except as a signal for
starting or stopping work, or in emergencies to avoid or prevent injury to
persons or theft of property. (Ord. 09-48, 10-19-2009)
