VILLAGE OF
BUCKINGHAM, IL
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2018
Code current through:
Ord. passed 9-5-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the Village of Buckingham, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including ordinance passed September 5, 2023. Ordinances of the Village
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the Village
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCE NO. 18-3
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING
   THE VILLAGE OF BUCKINGHAM, BUCKINGHAM VILLAGE CODE
BE IT ORDAINED by the President and Board of Trustees of the Village of
Buckingham, Illinois as follows:
   Section 1: Pursuant to the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/1-2-3, and from and after
the date of passage of this ordinance, the Village Code of the Village of
Buckingham, Illinois prepared by Sterling Codifiers, containing the compilation
of all ordinances of a general nature together with the changes made to said
ordinances, under the direction of the governing body of the Village, shall be
accepted in all courts without question as the official code and law of the
Village as enacted by the Village President and Board of Trustees.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official Village Code is identified by the proper catchline and is
inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which
shall be maintained in the office of the Village Clerk, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official
Village Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision
and the fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the
governing body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous
effectiveness of ordinances included in said official Village Code. All
ordinances of a special nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances,
franchises, vacating ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in
full force and effect unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of
the Village Code. Such ordinances are not intended to be included in the
official Village Code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Village
Code, or to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper
with such Village Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the
Village to be misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: Any person violating any of the provisions of the Village Code
hereby adopted shall be fined an amount not to exceed seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00), and imprisonment not to exceed six (6) months.
   Section 6: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 7: This ordinance and the Village Code adopted by the same shall be
recorded and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage,
approval and publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
PASSED this 7th day of August, 2018.
APPROVED this 7th day of August, 2018.
/s/      
Village President
ATTEST:
/s/      
Village Clerk
Roll Call Vote:
AYES: 5
NAYS: 0
ABSENT: 1
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
BUCKINGHAM VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the Board of Trustees, this Code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official Village Code of Buckingham. This Code
of ordinances shall be known and cited as the BUCKINGHAM VILLAGE CODE and is
hereby published by authority of the Board of Trustees and shall be
supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the Village as
provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title headings, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this Code by title in any legal documents. (2018 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of the
State as the ordinances of the Village of general and permanent effect, except
the excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2018 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this Code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
numbers of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifier, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this Code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this Code.
(2018 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
Board of Trustees. The Village Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the Office of the Clerk.
Any person having in his custody an official copy of this Code shall make every
effort to maintain said Code in an up to date and efficient manner. He shall
see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the Office of the Village
Clerk. Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the Village and shall
be returned to the Office of the Clerk when directed so to do by order of the
Board of Trustees. (2018 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Court Proceedings
1-2-3: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the Village passed prior to the adoption of this Code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this Code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
   A.   Tax levy ordinances;
   B.   Appropriation ordinances;
   C.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
   D.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations;
   E.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants;
   F.   Salary ordinances;
   G.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places;
   H.   Improvement ordinances;
   I.   Bond ordinances;
   J.   Ordinances relating to elections;
   K.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or
from the Village; and
   L.   All special ordinances. (2018 Code)
1-2-2: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the Village herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the Village under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this Code. (2018 Code)
1-2-3: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this Code,
or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by reference, is for any
reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this Code, or any codes or portions
of codes adopted herein by reference. The Village Board of Trustees hereby
declares that it would have passed each section, subsection, paragraph,
sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be
declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2018 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this Code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the Mayor and Village Board of Trustees may be
fully carried out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this Code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other Village officer to do some act or perform
some duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or
other officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   D.   Gender: The use of any gender based pronoun should not be construed to
be gender biased, but is only used for grammatical simplicity.
   E.   May; Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
   F.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   G.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   H.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the Village of Buckingham".
   I.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   J.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the
Village has been changed in the content of this Code to "title", "chapter",
"section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to Village ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2018 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
CODE: The Village Code of the Village of Buckingham.
COUNTY: The County of Kankakee, State of Illinois.
ILCS: Illinois Compiled Statutes.
MAYOR: See definition of Village President.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
STATE: The State of Illinois.
VILLAGE: The Village of Buckingham, County of Kankakee, State of Illinois.
VILLAGE PRESIDENT: The President of the Village may be referred to as "Mayor"
or "President" of the Village. (2018 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2018
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Nonliability Of Officers And Employees
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Any person convicted of a violation of any section or provision of this
Code, where no other penalty is set forth, shall be assessed a fine of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) per day per violation to a maximum of five hundred
dollars ($500.00) per day. The fine(s) shall be assessed on a daily basis until
such time as the violation(s) has been corrected. The Village shall be entitled
to collect any fees that are incurred in the prosecution of any violations of
this Code. This may include placing a lien on property, foreclosure of any lien
the Village may have thereon and any legal fees and costs. (Ord. 17-5, 8-8-
2017)
   B.   The provisions of subsection A of this section notwithstanding, no
penalty shall be greater than that established by State Statute for the same
offense. (2018 Code)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this Code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section unless otherwise indicated. Any person
convicted of a violation of any section of this Code where a duty is prescribed
or obligation imposed, or where any action which is of a continuing nature is
forbidden or is declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such
duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this Code.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this Code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this Code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2018 Code)
1-4-3: NONLIABILITY OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intent of
the Village Board of Trustees to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (2018 Code)
CHAPTER 5
VILLAGE PRESIDENT
SECTION:
1-5-1: Election And Term
1-5-2: Oath And Bond
1-5-3: Powers And Duties
1-5-4: Appointment And Removal Of Village Officers
1-5-5: Vacancy In Office
1-5-6: President Pro Tem
1-5-1: ELECTION AND TERM:
The President of the Board of Trustees shall be elected for a four (4) year
term and shall serve until his successor is elected and qualified as is
provided by statute. (1987 Code §
1-5-1)
1-5-2: OATH AND BOND:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the President of the Board of
Trustees shall subscribe to the required oath and shall execute a bond in such
amount and with such sureties as may be required by the Board of Trustees,
conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of his office. (1987
Code §
1-5-2)
1-5-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The President of the Board of Trustees shall be the Chief
Executive Officer of the Village and shall perform such duties as may be
required of him by statute or ordinance. He shall have supervision over all of
the executive officers and employees of the Village, except as by ordinance or
law shall be otherwise provided, and shall have the power and authority to
inspect all books and records pertaining to Village affairs and kept by any
officer or employee of the Village at any reasonable time. (1987 Code §
1-5-3)
   B.   Supervisory Duties:
      1.   Whenever there is a dispute as to the respective duties or powers of
any appointed officer of the Village, this dispute shall be settled by the
President of the Board of Trustees, after consultation with the Village
Attorney; and the President of the Board of Trustees shall have the power to
delegate to any appointed officer any duty which is to be performed when no
specific officer has been directed to perform that duty.
      2.   The President of the Board of Trustees shall supervise the conduct
of all officers of the Village and see that they faithfully and efficiently
discharge the duties of their respective offices. He shall inquire into all
reasonable complaints made against them and cause all their neglects or
violations of duty to be promptly corrected. He shall, in case he becomes
satisfied that any officer wilfully neglects or violates his duty, cause such
officer to be prosecuted and punished. (1987 Code §
1-5-5)
   C.   Signature: The President of the Board of Trustees shall sign all
commissions, licenses, permits and warrants granted, issued or drawn by order
of the Board of Trustees, or authorized by the ordinances of the Village. In
all contracts where the Village is a party, unless otherwise provided, the
President of the Board of Trustees shall sign the same on behalf of the
Village, and it shall be his special duty to see that the other contracting
party faithfully complies with the contract. (1987 Code §
1-5-6)
   D.   Suits Involving Village: In all suits wherein the Village is a party,
it shall be the duty of the President of the Board of Trustees to advise with
and assist the Village Attorney in prosecuting or defending the same, as the
case may be. (1987 Code § 1-5-7)
   E.   Village Representative: The President of the Board of Trustees shall
act for and on behalf of the Village on formal occasions and receptions; but in
his absence or inability to attend any such function, the Board of Trustees may
select any other Village officer to so act. (1987 Code § 1-5-8)
   F.   Additional Duties: In addition to the above and foregoing and to the
duties imposed upon him by law, the President shall perform all such other
duties as are or may be required of him by the ordinances of the Village. (1987
Code § 1-5-9)
1-5-4: APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF VILLAGE OFFICERS:
   A.   Appointment: The Village President, upon, by and with the advice and
consent of the Board of Trustees, may appoint: 1) a Village Treasurer; 2) a
Village Clerk; 3) a Village Attorney; 4) a Building Inspector; 5) a Code
Enforcement Officer; and 6) such other officers as may be necessary to carry
into effect the powers conferred upon the Village by law and the ordinances of
the Village. (1987 Code §
1-5-4; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Removal From Office: Except where otherwise provided by statute, the
President of the Board of Trustees may remove any officer appointed by him on
any formal charge whenever he is of the opinion that the interests of the
Village demand removal, but he shall report the reasons of the removal to the
Board of Trustees at a meeting to be held not less than five (5) nor more than
ten (10) days after the removal. If the President of the Board of Trustees
fails or refuses to report to the Board of Trustees the reasons for the
removal, or if the Board of Trustees, by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of all its
members authorized by law to be elected, disapproves of the removal, the
officer thereupon shall be restored to the office from which he was removed.
The vote shall be by yeas and nays, which vote shall be entered upon the Board
of Trustees Journal. Upon restoration, the officer shall give a new bond and a
new oath of office. No officer shall be removed a second time for the same
offense. (1987 Code §
1-5-4)
1-5-5: VACANCY IN OFFICE:
Whenever a vacancy shall occur in the Office of President during his term, the
vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of the term as provided in 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-10-50(f) or in the manner as otherwise
subsequently provided by the laws of the State of Illinois. During the period
from the time that the vacancy occurs until a President is elected, and has
qualified, the vacancy may be filled by the election of an Acting President by
the Board of Trustees. (1987 Code § 1-5-10; amd. 2018 Code)
1-5-6: PRESIDENT PRO TEM:
During a temporary absence or disability of the President of the Board of
Trustees, the Board of Trustees shall elect one of its members to act as
President Pro Tem who, during such absence or disability, shall possess the
powers of President of the Board of Trustees, as is provided by statute. (1987
Code § 1-5-11)
CHAPTER 6
VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Election And Term
1-6-2: Legislative Department Of Village
1-6-3: Oath And Compensation
1-6-4: Meetings
1-6-5: Rules And Order Of Business
1-6-6: Committees
1-6-7: Expenditures
1-6-1: ELECTION AND TERM:
The Board of Trustees, consisting of six (6) members, shall be elected to
office for four (4) year terms, according to the method provided by statute.
(1987 Code §
1-6-1)
1-6-2: LEGISLATIVE DEPARTMENT OF VILLAGE:
The Board shall be the Legislative Department of the Village government, and
shall perform such duties and have such powers as may be delegated by statute
thereto. (1987 Code §
1-6-2)
1-6-3: OATH AND COMPENSATION:
The members of the Board of Trustees shall take the oath of office prescribed
by statute, and shall receive such compensation as may be provided by
ordinance. (1987 Code §
1-6-3)
1-6-4: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The Village Board shall hold its regular meetings in
the Village Hall on the first Tuesday of each month at seven o'clock (7:00)
P.M., and no notice of such regular meetings shall be required. The meeting
place of the said Board shall be at the Village Hall unless otherwise ordered
by the Board, except when said first Tuesday is a legal holiday, and under
those conditions, the following Tuesday shall be the regularly scheduled
meeting of the Board of Trustees. (Ord., 6-3-1997; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Adjourned Meetings: Adjourned meetings may be held for the purposes of
completing unfinished business of the regular meetings and such other purposes
as are necessary, at such time or times as may be determined by the President
and the Board of Trustees. (1987 Code §
1-6-4)
   C.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the President of
the Village or any three (3) Trustees upon at least forty eight (48) hours'
notice to all members and the President; provided, that if all of the Trustees
are present at a special meeting, no notice of the meeting shall be necessary,
and such notice shall be deemed waived.
   D.   Meetings Open To The Public: All meetings shall be open to the public
except for: 1) collective negotiating matters between the Village and its
employees; 2) meetings where a pending or prospective court proceeding against
or on behalf of the Village is being considered; 3) meetings to consider
information regarding appointment, employment or dismissal of an employee or
officer, or as provided by State law; provided, that no final action may be
taken at a closed session. (1987 Code §
1-6-4; amd. 2018 Code)
   E.   Presiding Officer: The President of the Board of Trustees shall be
presiding officer of the Board of Trustees at all regular and special meetings
and when the Board of Trustees meets as a Committee of the Whole. In the
absence of the President of the Board of Trustees, Acting President, or
President Pro Tem, the Board of Trustees may elect a Trustee to act as
Temporary Chair. He shall have only the powers of a presiding officer and a
right to vote in his capacity as Trustee on any ordinance, resolution or
motion. (1987 Code §
1-6-5)
   F.   Quorum: A majority of the President and the Trustees shall constitute a
quorum to do business, but no ordinance shall be passed except upon the
favorable vote of a majority of the elected members, as provided by statute.
(1987 Code §
1-6-6)
1-6-5: RULES AND ORDER OF BUSINESS:
   A.   Order Of Business: The order of business of the Village Board of
Trustees shall be as follows: (1987 Code §
1-6-7)
      1.   Call to order.
      2.   Roll call.
      3.   Minutes.
      4.   Treasurer's report.
      5.   Bills.
      6.   Committee reports:
   Building and Grounds.
   Health and Welfare.
   Planning and Zoning.
   Police.
   Streets and Alleys.
   Water and Sewer.
      7.   Correspondence.
      8.   Unfinished business.
      9.   Executive session.
      10.   New business.
      11.   Adjournment. (1987 Code §
1-6-7; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Duties Of President: The President of the Board of Trustees shall
preserve order and decorum, and shall decide all questions of order, subject to
an appeal to the Board of Trustees. Appeals to the Board of Trustees shall be
decided without debate, and the decision of the President shall prevail, unless
reversed by a two-thirds (2/3) adverse vote of the Trustees present.
   C.   Rescinded Action: No vote or action of the Board of Trustees shall be
rescinded at any special meeting of the Board of Trustees unless there be
present at such special meeting as many members of the Board of Trustees as
were present at the meeting when such vote or action was taken, as provided by
statute.
   D.   Resolutions: Any resolutions submitted to the Board of Trustees shall
be reduced to writing before being voted upon on request of any two (2) members
of the Board.
   E.   Addressing Meetings: No person other than the President or a member of
the Board shall address that body at any regular or special meeting, except
upon consent of a majority of the members present.
   F.   Speaking Restricted:
      1.   No person other than the President and members of the Board of
Trustees shall be allowed to speak before the Board of Trustees, except by
permission given by the Board.
      2.   No member shall speak more than twice upon any question, nor more
than ten (10) minutes at one time, except by permission of the Board of
Trustees.
   G.   Communications To Be In Writing: All petitions and other communications
to the Board of Trustees shall be in writing.
   H.   Committee Reports, Documents Required: Every committee of the Board of
Trustees in reporting upon any subject referred to them, shall attach to their
report all papers and documents in the possession of the committee relative to
the matter so referred when so requested by a majority of the Board.
   I.   Voting Restricted: No member shall vote on any matter in which he is
directly interested, but all members shall vote upon all other questions unless
excused by the Board of Trustees.
   J.   Motion To Adjourn: A motion to adjourn shall always be in order, and
shall be decided without debate. (1987 Code §
1-6-7)
   K.   Disturbing Meetings: It shall be unlawful to disturb any regular or
special meeting of the Board of Trustees or of any committee thereof, or to
behave in a disorderly manner at any such meeting. Any person violating any
provision of this subsection shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title for each offense. (1987 Code §
1-6-7; amd. 2018 Code)
   L.   Rules Of Order:
      1.   Robert's Rules Of Order: Robert's Rules of Order shall govern the
deliberations of the Board of Trustees except when in conflict with any of the
foregoing rules.
      2.   Adoption Of Rules Of Order: The President and Board of Trustees may
from time to time adopt by resolution, rules of order for their guidance and
control, which rules shall be enforced until repealed, altered or amended,
unless by concurrence of two-thirds (2/3) of all the members elected, they
shall be suspended for that meeting.
      3.   Suspension Of Rules Of Order: The rules of order, other than those
prescribed by statute, may be suspended at any time by the consent of a
majority of the members present at any meeting. (1987 Code §
1-6-7)
1-6-6: COMMITTEES:
   A.   Standing Committees: The following shall be the standing committees of
the Board of Trustees:
Committee on Building and Grounds.
Committee on Health and Welfare.
Committee on Liquor Control (the President is the Liquor Control Commissioner).
Committee on Planning and Zoning.
Committee on Police.
Committee on Streets and Alleys.
Committee on Water and Sewer. (1987 Code § 1-6-8; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Special Committees: The President of the Board of Trustees shall
appoint such special committees as he may deem necessary or as may be directed
by the Board of Trustees. (1987 Code § 1-6-9)
1-6-7: EXPENDITURES:
No committee of the Village Board, nor any member of said Board or other
officer of the Village, shall expend or contract for the expenditure of any
monies belonging to the Village, or incur liability on the part of the Village,
without the prior authority of the Village Board to so do, or unless authorized
so to do by ordinance or resolution of the Village Board. (1987 Code § 1-6-10)
CHAPTER 7
VILLAGE OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-7-1: Qualifications For Elective Office
1-7-2: Terms Of Office
1-7-3: Oath Of Office
1-7-4: Bonds
1-7-5: Compensation
1-7-6: Conflict Of Interest
1-7-7: Office Exclusive
1-7-8: Sexual Harassment Policy Adopted
1-7-1: QUALIFICATIONS FOR ELECTIVE OFFICE:
   A.   No person shall be eligible to any elective office in the Village who
is not a qualified elector of the Village and who shall not have resided
therein at least one year next preceding the election nor shall any person be
eligible to any office, elective or appointive, who is a defaulter to the
Village.
   B.   If the President or any other elected Village official shall, during
his official term, remove his residence beyond the limits of the Village, his
office shall thereby become vacant. (1987 Code §
1-7-1)
1-7-2: TERMS OF OFFICE:
   A.   Elective Officers: All elective officers shall hold office for a term
of four (4) years, unless by ordinance or statute it is otherwise provided, or
unless elected to fill a vacancy. The terms of all elective officers shall
commence immediately following the adjournment of the first regular or special
meeting of the Board of Trustees following the proclamation of the results of
the election, unless otherwise required by law.
   B.   Elected Officers To Fill Vacancies: The terms of all officers elected
to fill a vacancy shall commence immediately upon the qualification of such
elected officer for such office in accordance with the law.
   C.   Appointive Officers And Employees: The terms of all appointive officers
and employees shall commence upon appointment and qualification for said office
as provided by law, which appointment shall be for a period of time until a
successor for said appointee is duly appointed and qualified. (1987 Code §
1-7-2)
1-7-3: OATH OF OFFICE:
   A.   All of the elected and appointed officers of the Village shall, before
entering upon the duties of their respective offices, take and subscribe the
following oath or affirmation:
I do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support the Constitution of the
United States, and the Constitution of the State of Illinois; that I will
faithfully discharge the duties of the office of (here insert the name of the
office to which he is elected or appointed) according to the best of my
ability.
   B.   The said oath or affirmation so subscribed, shall be filed in the
Office of the Village Clerk, except that of the Village Clerk, which shall be
filed with the Village Treasurer. (1987 Code §
1-7-3)
1-7-4: BONDS:
   A.   Generally: Before entering upon the duties of their respective offices,
all Village officers, except members of the Board of Trustees, shall execute a
bond with security to be approved by the Board of Trustees as provided by law
or ordinances of the Village. These bonds shall be filed with the Village
Clerk, except the bond of the Clerk, which shall be filed with the Village
Treasurer.
   B.   Village President: The Village President shall, before entering upon
the duties of his office after his appointment or election, execute a bond with
security, to be approved by the Board of Trustees payable to the Village in the
penal sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), conditioned upon his faithful
performance of the duties of the Office of President and the payment of all
monies received by him as Village President and the delivery to his successor
in office of all property, books and effects in his possession belonging to the
Village or pertaining to the Office of Village President according to law and
the ordinances of the Village.
   C.   Village Clerk: The Village Clerk shall, before entering upon the duties
of his office after his appointment or election, execute a bond with security,
to be approved by the Board of Trustees, payable to the Village in the penal
sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), conditioned upon the faithful
performance of the duties of the Office of Village Clerk, payment of all monies
received as Village Clerk and the delivery to his successor in office of all
property, books and effects in his possession belonging to the Village or
appertaining to the Office of Village Clerk according to law and the ordinances
of the Village.
   D.   Village Treasurer: The Village Treasurer shall, before he enters upon
the duties of his office after his appointment, execute and deliver to the
Village Clerk a bond to be approved by the Board of Trustees with at least two
(2) good and sufficient securities in a sum that is not less than three (3)
times the latest Federal census population or any subsequent census figure used
for Motor Fuel Tax purposes, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the
duties of his Office of Village Treasurer and the payment of and accounting for
monies received as Treasurer according to law and ordinances. (1987 Code §
1-7-4; amd. 2018 Code)
1-7-5: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Salaries:
      1.   Village President: The salary of the President is hereby fixed at
the sum of seventy five dollars ($75.00) per meeting or per diem. This salary
increase is effective May 1, 2015.
      2.   Village Trustees: Each Trustee shall receive for his/her service
thirty seven dollars fifty cents ($37.50) per meeting or per diem. This salary
increase is effective May 1, 2015.
      3.   Village Clerk: The salary of the Village Clerk is hereby fixed at
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per month. The Clerk shall receive no other
compensation. This salary increase is effective May 1, 2014. (Ord. 14-1, 5-6-
2014)
      4.   Village Treasurer: The salary of the Village Treasurer is hereby
fixed at the sum of three hundred twenty five dollars ($325.00) per month. The
Treasurer shall receive no other compensation. This salary increase is
effective May 1, 2014. (Ord. 14-1, 5-6-2014; amd. 2018 Code)
      5.   Village Attorney: The salary of the Village Attorney shall be in the
amount as approved by the President and Board of Trustees at the time of
appointment. (1987 Code §
1-7-5)
      6.   Village Water Pumper: The salary of the water pumper is hereby fixed
at two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per month. This salary increase is
effective May 1, 2014. (Ord. 14-1, 5-6-2014; amd. 2018 Code)
      7.   Temporary Suspension Of Services: Nothing in this Code shall create
an absolute right in any official or employee to receive his or her entire
annual salary, or other compensation, where it is necessary on the part of the
Board to make a temporary suspension of the services of one or more officials
or employees because of the lack of Village funds with which to pay for the
suspended services.
   B.   Per Diem Determination: For purposes of determining payments on a per
diem basis, whenever the President or Trustees are required to act in their
official capacity, they shall submit a voucher requesting a per diem payment
for such services performed.
   C.   Mileage Reimbursement: Each officer and employee of the Village shall
be reimbursed for mileage arising from the use of their personal vehicle. The
rate of reimbursement shall be set on a regular basis by the Board of Trustees.
(1987 Code §
1-7-5)
   D.   Determining Payment For President And Trustees: The President and
Trustees will be paid on a bi-yearly schedule as follows: Anyone on the Village
Board will be able to miss no more than three (3) meetings in a year and no
more than two (2) meetings in a six (6) month period. If this criteria is met,
then the President or Trustee will receive his/her full six (6) month salary.
If for any reason the President or Trustee fails to meet the criteria, then
after missing the numbered meetings, the single monthly salary will be
subtracted from the six (6) month salary for every month missed. (2018 Code)
1-7-6: CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
No member of the Village Board or other Village officer shall be interested,
either directly or indirectly, in any contract with or work for the Village, or
become surety for any contractor or other person upon any bond to secure the
performance of any contract with the Village. (1987 Code §
1-7-6)
1-7-7: OFFICE EXCLUSIVE:
No President, Trustee, Village Clerk or Village Treasurer shall hold any other
office under the Village government during his term of office. (1987 Code §
1-7-7)
1-7-8: SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY ADOPTED:
The "Policy Prohibiting Sexual Harassment", included as exhibit A on file in
the Village, is hereby adopted. Copies of said policy are on file in the Office
of the Village Clerk for public use and inspection. (Ord. 17-9, 12-5-2017, eff.
12-5-2017; amd. 2018 Code)
ARTICLE A. VILLAGE CLERK
SECTION:
1-7A-1: Appointment And Term
1-7A-2: Oath And Bond
1-7A-3: Duties
1-7A-4: Deputy Clerk
1-7A-1: APPOINTMENT AND TERM:
The Village Clerk shall be appointed by the Village President, by and with the
advice and consent of the Village Board, and shall serve until his successor is
selected and qualified according to law. (1987 Code §
1-7A-1; amd. 2018 Code)
1-7A-2: OATH AND BOND:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the Village Clerk shall
subscribe to the required oath and shall execute a bond in such amount and with
such sureties as may be required by the Board of Trustees, conditioned upon the
faithful performance of his duties. (1987 Code §
1-7A-2)
1-7A-3: DUTIES:
The Village Clerk shall:
   A.   Seal and attest all contracts of the Village, and all licenses, permits
and other such documents as shall require this formality.
   B.   Turn over all monies received by him on behalf of the Village to the
Village Treasurer promptly, on receipt of the same; and with such monies he
shall give a statement as to the source thereof.
   C.   Keep accounts showing all monies received by him, and the source and
disposition thereof, and such other accounts as may be required by statute or
ordinance.
   D.   In addition to the records of ordinances and other records which the
Clerk is required by statute to keep, keep a register of all licenses and
permits issued and the payments thereon, a record showing all of the officers
and regular employees of the Village, and such other records as may be required
by the Board of Trustees.
   E.   Be the custodian of the Village Seal, and shall affix its impression on
documents whenever this is required.
   F.   Be the custodian of all documents belonging to the Village which are
not assigned to the custody of some other officer of the Village by the
President or Board of Trustees.
   G.   Keep and maintain a proper index to all documents and records kept by
him so that ready access thereto and use thereof may be had.
   H.   Keep a record of the election or appointment and confirmation of all
officers of the Village, and said record shall be so ruled and headed that the
same shall exhibit the name of the officer elected or appointed, the date of
confirmation or election, the date of commission and the date of deaths,
resignation or removal or expiration of term of office with a column for
remarks.
   I.   Not allow any books, records or papers or other instruments of writing
to be taken out of his office by any person other than himself, the President,
any of the Board of Trustees and the Village Attorney, or upon the order of a
court of competent jurisdiction or the Board of Trustees.
   J.   Attend all meetings of the President and Board of Trustees and keep in
a suitable book for the purpose a full and faithful record of its proceedings.
He shall issue and cause to be served upon the President and Board of Trustees
notice of all special meetings of the President and Board of Trustees.
   K.   In a separate book, keep a record of all ordinances passed by the
President and Board of Trustees, and if the ordinance requires posting or
publication, he shall cause the same to be duly posted or published.
   L.   In addition to the duties herein provided, perform such other duties
and functions as may be required by statute or ordinance. (1987 Code §
1-7A-3)
1-7A-4: DEPUTY CLERK:
The Village Clerk may, subject to the approval of the President, appoint any
adult resident of the Village as his deputy for the purpose of the issuance of
licenses and permits or attending meetings of the Board of Trustees and acting
as Clerk when the Clerk is temporarily absent from the Village. (1987 Code §
1-7A-4)
ARTICLE B. VILLAGE TREASURER
SECTION:
1-7B-1: Appointment And Term
1-7B-2: Duties
1-7B-3: Funds Separate
1-7B-1: APPOINTMENT AND TERM:
The Village Treasurer shall be appointed at the commencement of the fiscal year
by the President, with the approval of the Board of Trustees, and shall serve
until his successor is qualified as is provided by law. (1987 Code §
1-7B-1)
1-7B-2: DUTIES:
The Treasurer shall:
   A.   Perform such duties as may be prescribed for him by statute or by
ordinance.
   B.   Receive all monies paid to the Village and belonging to the Village,
either directly from the person paying it or from the hands of such other
officer as may receive it and shall keep a separate account of each fund and
appropriation.
   C.   Pay out money only on vouchers or orders properly signed by the Village
Clerk and the President of the Board of Trustees.
   D.   Keep true and complete accounts and records, fully itemized, of all
warrants redeemed and paid by him, but he shall pay out no money except on
warrants therefor, signed by the President and countersigned by the Clerk,
stating the particular fund or appropriation to which the same is chargeable,
and the person to whom payable. No money shall be otherwise paid out than upon
such warrants so drawn.
   E.   Keep a register of all warrants, bonds or orders filed with him or paid
by him, and all vouchers, as is required by statute.
   F.   Deposit the Village funds in such depositories as may be selected from
time to time as is provided by law.
   G.   Keep true and correct records showing all monies received by him, the
source from which it was received and the purpose for which it was paid out;
and he shall keep a record showing at all times the financial status of the
Village.
   H.   Keep such books and accounts as may be required by the Board of
Trustees, and shall keep them in the manner required by the Board of Trustees.
Said books and accounts shall always be subject to the inspection of any member
of the Board of Trustees.
   I.   Render to the Board of Trustees a verified report, at the first regular
meeting of the Board of Trustees in each month or more often if required, of
all his transactions the preceding month. He shall also annually, within thirty
(30) days after the close of the fiscal year, make out and file with the Clerk
a full and detailed account of all such receipts and expenditures and of all
his transactions as such Treasurer during the preceding fiscal year, and shall
show in such account the state of the Treasury at the close of the fiscal year;
which account the Clerk shall immediately either cause to be published in a
newspaper having a general circulation in the Village, or by posting the same
in a public place in the Clerk's Office.
   J.   Report to the Village Clerk any officer authorized to receive money for
the use of the Village who may fail to make a return of the monies received by
him at the time required by law, or by the ordinances of the Village.
   K.   In addition to the foregoing duties, perform all such other and further
duties pertaining to his office as are or may be imposed upon him by law or
ordinance. (1987 Code §
1-7B-2)
1-7B-3: FUNDS SEPARATE:
The Treasurer shall keep the Village money separate and distinct from his own
and shall not intermingle his own money therewith or make private or personal
use of the Village funds. (1987 Code §
1-7B-3)
ARTICLE C. CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER
SECTION:
1-7C-1: Office Created; Appointment
1-7C-2: Duties
1-7C-3: Compensation
1-7C-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT:
The Office of Code Enforcement Officer is hereby created, who shall be
appointed by the Village President, with the consent of the Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 12-4, 2-6-2012)
1-7C-2: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the Code Enforcement Officer to enforce Property
Maintenance Codes, ordinances and other regulations governing the condition and
maintenance of all property, buildings and structures and supplied utilities
and facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure
that structures are safe and sanitary and fit for occupation and use. The Code
Enforcement Officer shall make inspections, as deemed necessary, issue all
necessary notices or orders, and keep official records pertaining to
inspections, notices, orders and fees collected. (Ord. 12-4, 2-6-2012)
1-7C-3: COMPENSATION:
The compensation of the Code Enforcement Officer shall be determined by the
Board of Trustees. (Ord. 12-4, 2-6-2012)
CHAPTER 8
ETHICS
SECTION:
1-8-1: State Regulations Adopted
1-8-2: Definitions
1-8-3: Interpretation
1-8-4: Prohibited Acts
1-8-5: Penalties
1-8-6: Amendments
1-8-7: Unconstitutionality Of Provisions
1-8-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The regulations of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/5-15 and 5 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 430/10-10 through 430/10-40 of the State Officials and
Employees Ethics Act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/1-1 et seq. (hereinafter
referred to as the "Act" in this chapter), are hereby adopted by reference and
made applicable to the officers and employees of the Village to the extent
required by 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5. (2018 Code)
1-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the terms "officer" and "employee" shall be
defined as set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(c). (2018 Code)
1-8-3: INTERPRETATION:
This chapter does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of Village officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this chapter, however, the provisions of this chapter shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
70-5(a). (2018 Code)
1-8-4: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Gifts:
      1.   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited
or accepted under the Act by any officer or any employee of the Village is
hereby prohibited.
      2.   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to
an officer or employee of the Village under the Act is hereby prohibited.
   B.   Political Activities: The participation in political activities
prohibited under the Act by any officer or employee of the Village is hereby
prohibited. (2018 Code)
1-8-5: PENALTIES:
The penalties for violations of this chapter shall be the same as those
penalties set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/50-5 for similar
violations of the Act. (2018 Code)
1-8-6: AMENDMENTS:
Any amendment to the Act that becomes effective after the effective date hereof
shall be incorporated into this chapter by reference and shall be applicable to
the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of gifts and to prohibited
political activities. However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional
for adoption by the Village shall not be incorporated into this chapter by
reference without formal action by the Corporate Authorities of the Village.
(2018 Code)
1-8-7: UNCONSTITUTIONALITY OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares the Act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this chapter shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
Supreme Court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This chapter shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the Corporate Authorities of the Village if the Act is found unconstitutional
by the Illinois Supreme Court.
   B.   If the Illinois Supreme Court declares part of the Act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the Act, or does not
address the remainder of the Act, then the remainder of the Act, as adopted by
this chapter, shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
chapter relating to the part of the Act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the Corporate Authorities of the Village.
(2018 Code)
CHAPTER 9
PUBLIC RECORDS ACCESS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Request Of Records From Clerk
1-9-2: Retrieval Of Records
1-9-3: Fees
1-9-4: Appeal Of Request Denial
1-9-5: Directories, Subdivision Diagram And Records Catalogue
1-9-1: REQUEST OF RECORDS FROM CLERK:
The Village Clerk is hereby designated as the person to whom all initial
requests for access to the records of the Village are to be referred. Any
person requesting records of the Village may make such a request in person or
in writing at the Village Clerk's Office located at 1 North Willow. Such
request should be made in person. Another method would be by mailing the
request to the Village Clerk specifying in particular the records requested to
be disclosed and copied. All written requests should be addressed to the
Village Clerk, PO Box 65, Buckingham, IL 60917. (Ord., 2-18-1996; amd. 2018
Code)
1-9-2: RETRIEVAL OF RECORDS:
Any records which are the subject of a request under the Freedom of Information
Act shall be retrieved from such place as they are stored, by the Village
Clerk. In no event shall records be retrieved by the party requesting them or
by any person who is not employed by the Village. (Ord., 2-18-1996)
1-9-3: FEES:
The fees for any records, if the person requesting the records wishes them to
be copied, are as follows:
   A.   Fifteen cents ($0.15) per page.
   B.   If it is an FOIA request, the first fifty (50) pages are free, then
pages fifty one plus (51+) will be at the fee of fifteen cents ($0.15) per
page.
   C.   If certified copies are requested, there will be an extra ten cents
($0.10) per page charged. (2018 Code)
1-9-4: APPEAL OF REQUEST DENIAL:
In the event that a request to inspect Village records is denied by the Village
Clerk, the denial may be appealed to the Village President. Such an appeal must
be made within fourteen (14) days after the requesting party receives written
notice denying said request; or in the event that the denial is not by letter,
the appeal must be made fourteen (14) days after the request is effectively
denied. In the absence of the Village President, appeals from denials of
requests for access shall be made to the Board of Trustees. (Ord., 2-18-1996)
1-9-5: DIRECTORIES, SUBDIVISION DIAGRAM AND RECORDS CATALOGUE:
The Village Clerk shall prepare: a) a Village information directory; b) a block
diagram of the functional subdivisions of the Village; c) a Village records
directory; and d) a records catalogue, all of which shall be substantially in
the same form as the documents attached and made a part hereof as exhibits A,
B, C, and D on file in the Village. (Ord., 2-18-1996)
CHAPTER 10
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Voting Qualifications
1-10-1: VOTING QUALIFICATIONS:
All persons who are entitled to vote at any general election for State officers
and who have a permanent abode within the Municipality may vote therein at any
election for Municipal officers or at any election on Municipal bond issues or
propositions. (1987 Code §
1-9-1)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Commission Established; Membership; Terms; Chair; Removals And
Vacancies; Meetings
2-1-2: Duties
2-1-3: Compensation
2-1-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS; CHAIR; REMOVALS AND
VACANCIES; MEETINGS:
A Planning Commission is hereby authorized to be established. The Planning
Commission shall consist of three (3) members appointed by the Village
President, with the consent of the Board of Trustees. The members of the
Planning Commission shall serve respectively for the following terms, or until
their respective successors are appointed and qualified: one for one year; one
for two (2) years; and one for three (3) years. The successor to each member so
appointed will serve for a term of three (3) years. One of the members of the
Planning Commission shall be designated by the Village President, with the
consent of the Board of Trustees, as Chair of the Planning Commission, and
shall hold his said office as Chair until his successor is appointed. Such
Chair, or in his absence the Acting Chair, may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. The Village President shall have the power to remove
any member of the Planning Commission for cause and after a public hearing.
Vacancies upon the Planning Commission shall be filled for the unexpired term
of the member whose place has become vacant in the manner herein provided for
the appointment of such member. The meetings of the Planning Commission shall
be held at such times as the Planning Commission, by rule, directs. (1987 Code
§
2-1-1)
2-1-2: DUTIES:
The Planning Commission is to recommend the boundaries of various districts and
appropriate regulations to be enforced therein and to study the zoning and
planning needs of the Village, give notice, hold hearings, formulate
comprehensive zoning and to carry on these same functions relative to the
rezoning districts or amendments of the subdivision regulations or zoning title
of this Code. (1987 Code §
2-1-2)
2-1-3: COMPENSATION:
Each member of the Planning Commission shall receive the sum of fifteen dollars
($15.00) per meeting as his compensation for his attendance to each meeting of
said Planning Commission, payable at the end of each fiscal year. (1987 Code §
2-1-3)
TITLE 3
VILLAGE FINANCES
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL FINANCE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Municipal Or Fiscal Year
3-1-2: Annual Appropriation Ordinance
3-1-3: Annual Tax Levy Ordinance
3-1-4: Annual Audit
3-1-5: Expenditures; Payment Of Bills
3-1-6: Annual Department Inventory
3-1-1: MUNICIPAL OR FISCAL YEAR:
The Municipal or fiscal year of the Village shall commence on May 1 in each
year. (1987 Code §
1-8-1)
3-1-2: ANNUAL APPROPRIATION ORDINANCE:
The President and the Board of Trustees shall, as soon as practicable after the
commencement of each fiscal year, and within the first quarter thereof, pass an
ordinance to be termed the annual appropriation ordinance, in which they shall
appropriate such sums of money as may be deemed necessary to defray all
necessary expenses and liabilities of the Village government during the fiscal
year, and in such ordinance shall specify the different objects and purposes
for which such appropriations are made, and the amount appropriated for each
object or purpose, and no further appropriations shall be made at any time
during the fiscal year, except as otherwise expressly provided by law. (1987
Code §
1-8-2)
3-1-3: ANNUAL TAX LEVY ORDINANCE:
The President and Board of Trustees shall annually, on or before the third
Tuesday in September in each year, ascertain the total amount of appropriations
for all corporate purposes legally made and to be collected from the tax levy
of that fiscal year; and by an ordinance specifying in detail the purpose for
which such appropriations are made, and the sum or amount appropriated for each
purpose respectively, levy the amount so ascertained upon all the property
subject to taxation within the Village as the same is assessed and equalized
for State and County purposes for the current year, a copy of which ordinance
shall be filed with the County Clerk by the Village Clerk. (1987 Code §
1-8-3)
3-1-4: ANNUAL AUDIT:
The records and accounts of the Village shall be fully audited to the end of
each fiscal year by some impartial accountant selected by the Board of Trustees
for that purpose, which audit shall be made in accordance with the Illinois
Municipal Auditing Law. (1987 Code §
1-8-4)
3-1-5: EXPENDITURES; PAYMENT OF BILLS:
No bills, claims or expenditures of any kind or nature shall be paid and no
order drawn on the Village Treasurer therefor, unless such bills or claims
shall have been regularly passed on and allowed by the Village Board,
specifying upon what fund the order shall be drawn; except, that the Treasurer
is hereby authorized to pay standard and customary utility bills if it is
necessary to pay said bills before the next regularly scheduled meeting in
order to avoid late charges. (1987 Code §
1-8-5)
3-1-6: ANNUAL DEPARTMENT INVENTORY:
Each officer and head of each committee shall, annually, on May 1 of each year,
submit to the Board an inventory of the equipment, supplies, materials and
invoices on hand. (1987 Code §
1-8-6)
CHAPTER 2
INVESTMENT POLICY; VILLAGE DEPOSITORIES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Scope
3-2-2: General Objectives
3-2-3: Standard Of Care
3-2-1: SCOPE:
This policy applies to the investment of all operating and investment funds.
Except for funds which by law must be segregated, funds may be pooled for
convenience and to maximize investment earnings. Funds that are pooled shall be
separated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. (Ord.
99-7, 12-13-1999)
3-2-2: GENERAL OBJECTIVES:
The primary objectives, in priority order, of investment activities shall be
safety, liquidity and yield.
   A.   Safety: Safety of principal is the foremost objective of the investment
policy. Investments shall be undertaken in a manner that seeks to ensure the
preservation of capital. The objective will be to mitigate credit risk and
interest rate risk.
      1.   Risk To Principal: The Village will minimize risk to loss of
principal assets by:
         a.   Limiting investments to the safest types of securities;
         b.   Prequalifying the financial institutions, broker/dealers,
intermediaries, and advisors with which an entity will do business; and
         c.   Diversifying the investment portfolio so that potential losses on
individual securities will be minimized.
      2.   Interest Rate Risk: The Village will minimize the risk that the
market value of securities in the portfolio will fall due to changes in general
interest rate by:
         a.   Structuring the investment portfolio so that securities meet cash
requirements for ongoing operations.
         b.   Investing operating funds primarily in instruments with
determined interest rates.
   B.   Liquidity: The investment portfolio shall bear interest payments
sufficiently to meet all operating requirements that may be reasonably
anticipated. This is accomplished by structuring the portfolio so that
securities bear interest or mature concurrent with cash needs to meet
anticipated financial demands of the district. Furthermore, since all possible
cash demands cannot be anticipated, the investment portfolio shall contain some
liquid investments.
   C.   Yield: The investment portfolio shall be designed with the objective of
attaining a near to market rate of return with the preference of using local
banks for investment purposes. Return on investment is of secondary importance
compared to the safety and need for established interest income rates as
described above. (Ord. 99-7, 12-13-1999)
3-2-3: STANDARD OF CARE:
   A.   Prudence:
      1.   The standard of prudence to be used by investment officials shall be
the "prudent person" standard and shall be applied in the context of managing
an overall portfolio. Investment officers acting in accordance with written
procedures and this investment policy and exercising due diligence shall be
relieved of personal responsibility for an individual security's credit risk or
market price changes, provided deviations from expectations are reported in a
timely fashion and the liquidity and the sale of securities are carried out in
accordance with the terms of this policy.
      2.   Investments shall be made with judgment and care, under
circumstances then prevailing, which persons of prudence, discretion and
intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for
speculation, but for investment, considering the probable safety of their
capital as well as the probable income to be derived.
   B.   Ethics And Conflicts Of Interest: Officers and employees involved in
the investment process shall refrain from personal business activity that could
conflict with proper execution and management of the investment program, or
that could impair their ability to make impartial decisions. Employees and
investment officials shall disclose any material interests in financial
institutions with which they conduct business. They shall further disclose any
personal financial/investment positions that could be related to the
performance of the investment portfolio. Employees and officers shall refrain
from undertaking personal investment transactions with the same individual with
whom business is conducted on behalf of the district.
   C.   Delegation Of Authority:
      1.   Authority to manage the investment program is granted to the Village
Treasurer, hereinafter referred to as the "investment officer".
      2.   Responsibility for the operation of the investment policy is hereby
delegated to the investment officer, who shall act in accordance with this
investment policy keeping the District's Treasurer advised of all financial
transactions and following the below internal controls to protect from loss,
theft or misuse:
         a.   All transactions shall bear the signature of the Treasurer. Any
transactions over ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) should bear the signature
of the Treasurer and the Village President. A Village Trustee shall sign in
absence of the Treasurer or Village President.
         b.   Investment transactions shall be handled in person when
practical.
         c.   Records of all financial transactions shall be made within forty
eight (48) hours of such transactions.
         d.   The Treasurer shall present a financial report at every meeting
and at least quarterly provide a written report of investment activities. The
Treasurer shall have present at all meetings the most current statements
verifying account balances should the Board desire to audit any accounts.
         e.   Accounts at any one financial institution shall not exceed FDIC
limits unless further security is provided as required by Illinois law.
         f.   As a further internal control, the investment officer shall
review records with a CPA for an annual independent review to assure compliance
with sound policies and procedures. The internal controls shall review:
            (1)   Control of collusion.
            (2)   Separation of transaction authority from accounting and
recordkeeping.
            (3)   Custodial safekeeping.
            (4)   Avoidance of physical-delivery securities.
            (5)   Clear delegation of authority to subordinate staff members.
            (6)   Written confirmation of telephone transactions for
investments and wire transfers.
            (7)   Development of a wire transfer agreement with the lead bank
or third party custodian.
   D.   Authorized Financial Institutions:
      1.   The following are approved financial institutions authorized to
provide investment services: State Bank of Herscher, Illinois Public
Treasurer's Investment Pool.
      2.   This list of approved financial institutions shall be annually
reviewed and may be amended by Board resolution. Financial institutions who
desire to become qualified bidders for investment transactions must supply the
following as appropriate:
         a.   Audited financial statements.
         b.   Proof of National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD)
certification.
         c.   Proof of State registration.
         d.   Completed broker/dealer questionnaire.
         e.   Certification of having read the entity's investment policy.
(Ord. 99-7, 12-13-1999)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSING AND PERMIT PROVISIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Application For License Or Permit
4-1-2: Forms
4-1-3: Signatures Required
4-1-4: Inspections Or Investigations
4-1-5: Fees And Charges
4-1-6: Term Of License
4-1-7: Posting License
4-1-8: Nontransferability Of License; Change Of Location
4-1-9: Building And Premises
4-1-10: Nuisance Businesses Prohibited
4-1-11: Authority To Grant Licenses; Suspension Or Revocation Of Licenses
4-1-11-1: Suspension Of License
4-1-11-2: Notice Of License Denial Or Revocation
4-1-11-3: Hearings On License Denial Or Revocation
4-1-12: Penalty
4-1-1: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE OR PERMIT:
Applications for all licenses and permits required by ordinance shall be made
in writing to the Village Clerk, in the absence of any other provision to the
contrary. Each application shall state the name of the applicant, the permit or
license desired, the location to be used, if any, the time covered and the fee
to be paid; and each application shall contain such additional information as
may be needed for the proper guidance of the Village officials in the issuing
of the said permit or license. (1987 Code §
3-1-1)
4-1-2: FORMS:
Forms for all licenses and permits, and applications therefor, shall be
prepared and kept on hand by the Village Clerk. (1987 Code §
3-1-2)
4-1-3: SIGNATURES REQUIRED:
Each license or permit issued shall bear the signatures of the President and
the Clerk, in the absence of any provision to the contrary. (1987 Code §
3-1-3)
4-1-4: INSPECTIONS OR INVESTIGATIONS:
Upon receipt of an application for a license or permit where the ordinances of
the Village require an inspection or investigation before the issuance of such
permit or license, the Village Clerk shall refer such application to the proper
official or officials for making such investigation within forty eight (48)
hours of the time of such receipt. The official charged with the duty of making
the investigation or inspection shall make a report thereon, favorable or
otherwise, within ten (10) days after receiving the application or a copy
thereof. (1987 Code §
3-1-5)
4-1-5: FEES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Payment In Advance: In the absence of any provision to the contrary,
all fees and charges for licenses or permits shall be paid in advance at the
time the application therefor is made to the Village Clerk.
   B.   Proration Of Fee: When an application for an annual license is made
after the expiration of six (6) months of the current license year, the license
for the remainder of the year shall be issued upon payment of one-half (1/2) of
the annual fee; provided, that the applicant has not previously held a license
of the same type and class for which application is made. (1987 Code §
3-1-6)
4-1-6: TERM OF LICENSE:
The licenses shall be for a period of not exceeding one year, to terminate on
the first day of the fiscal year succeeding its issuance, where no provision to
the contrary is made. (1987 Code §
3-1-4)
4-1-7: POSTING LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the
Village to keep his license posted in a prominent place on the premises used
for such business at all times. (1987 Code § 3-1-9)
4-1-8: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE; CHANGE OF LOCATION:
No license shall be assignable or transferable, nor shall any person be
authorized to do business or act under such license but the person to whom it
is granted or his administrator or executor, or at any other place than that
specified herein, nor shall any license authorize any person to act under it at
more than one place; provided, that any licensee conducting any business or
occupation required to be licensed who shall change the location of such place
of business before the expiration of such license, upon written notice to the
Village Clerk of the change in location, may continue said business at the new
location under said license previously issued unless otherwise restricted by
ordinance or law. (1987 Code § 3-1-7)
4-1-9: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, and no permit for
any thing or act, if the premises and building to be used for the purpose do
not fully comply with the requirements of the Village. No such license or
permit shall be issued for the conduct of any business or the performance of
any act which would involve a violation of the zoning title. (1987 Code § 3-1-
8)
4-1-10: NUISANCE BUSINESSES PROHIBITED:
No business, licensed or not, shall be so conducted or operated as to amount to
a nuisance in fact. (1987 Code § 3-1-10)
4-1-11: AUTHORITY TO GRANT LICENSES; SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES:
The Village President may grant any license, and the Village President and
Board of Trustees may revoke any license issued under this chapter during the
term of such license for failure by any applicant or licensee to comply with
any provision of this Code or any Statutes of the State of Illinois relating to
the business, occupation or activity for which a license application has been
made or for which a license has been granted; provided, however, no license
shall be denied or revoked hereunder until notice has been given to the
applicant or licensee as provided in section
4-1-11-2 of this chapter, a reasonable time has elapsed to enable the applicant
or licensee to comply with the provisions of this Code and applicable State
Statutes, and the applicant or licensee has been given the opportunity to
present his case at a hearing as provided in section
4-1-11-3 of this chapter. Such denial or revocation of a license may be in
addition to any fine imposed. No person whose license has been revoked as
herein provided shall be eligible for a new license during the period for which
the revoked license was originally issued. (1987 Code § 3-1-11)
4-1-11-1: SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Authority Of Village President: The Village President may suspend, for
a period not to exceed thirty (30) days, any license issued under this chapter
during the term of such license upon conviction of the licensee of violation of
any provision of this Code or any Statutes of the State of Illinois relating to
the business, occupation or activity for which such license was issued.
   B.   Suspension Without Notice: The Village President may suspend for a
period not to exceed thirty (30) days, without prior warning, notice or
hearing, any license issued under this Code during the term of such license for
the failure of any licensee to comply with any provision of this Code or any
Statutes of the State of Illinois relating to the business, occupation or
activity for which such license was issued if, in the judgment of the Village
President, such failure constitutes an imminent danger to the public health,
safety or welfare.
   C.   Licensee To Cease Business Operations: Any person whose license is
suspended shall immediately discontinue the business, occupation or activity
for which the license was issued.
   D.   Hearing; Reinspection; Reinstatement:
      1.   Any person whose license is suspended may, at any time, either
petition in writing the Village President for a hearing or make written
application to the Village President for reinspection for the purpose of
reinstatement of the license. Any such hearing shall be held as soon as
possible and shall be conducted by and before the Village President at a time
and place designated by him. Based upon the record of such hearing, the Village
President shall make a finding and shall sustain, modify or rescind any
official notice or order considered in the hearing. A written report of the
hearing decision shall be furnished by the Village President to the person
whose license was suspended.
      2.   If a written application is made to the Village President for
reinspection for the purpose of reinstatement of the license, then, within ten
(10) days following receipt by the Village President of such application,
together with a written statement signed by the applicant that in the
applicant's opinion the conditions causing suspension of the license have been
corrected, the Village President shall cause a reinspection to be made.
      3.   If, after such reinspection, the applicant is found to comply with
all applicable provisions of this Code and Statutes of the State of Illinois,
his license shall be reinstated. (1987 Code § 3-1-11-1)
4-1-11-2: NOTICE OF LICENSE DENIAL OR REVOCATION:
   A.   When the Village President and Board of Trustees discover that there
has not been compliance with any of the applicable provisions of this Code or
any Statutes of the State of Illinois or they have been violated, the Village
President shall notify the applicant or licensee in writing of such
noncompliance or violation. Such notification shall: 1) set forth the specific
nature of the noncompliance or violation discovered; 2) establish a specific
and reasonable period of time for the correction of such noncompliance or
violation; 3) state that failure to comply with any notice issued in accordance
with the provisions of this Code may result in a denial or an immediate
revocation, as the case may be, of the license; and 4) state that an
opportunity for appeal from any notice or inspection findings will be provided
if a written request for a hearing is filed with the Village President and
Board of Trustees within the period of time established in the notice for
correction.
   B.   Any such notice shall be deemed to have been properly served when it
has been delivered personally to the applicant or licensee or when it has been
sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last
known residence or business address of the applicant or licensee. (1987 Code §
3-1-11-2)
4-1-11-3: HEARINGS ON LICENSE DENIAL OR REVOCATION:
The hearings on license denial or revocation matters shall be conducted by the
Village Board at a time and place designated thereby. Based upon the record of
such hearings, the Village President and Board of Trustees shall make a finding
and shall sustain, modify or rescind any official notice or order considered at
the hearing. A written report of the hearing decision shall be furnished to the
applicant or licensee by the Village President and Board of Trustees. (1987
Code § 3-1-11-3)
4-1-12: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter, where no other penalty is
specifically provided, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1987
Code § 3-1-12; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
4-2-1: State Regulations Adopted
4-2-2: Definitions
4-2-3: Administrative Officials
4-2-4: License Required
4-2-5: Ineligibility For License
4-2-6: Application For License
4-2-7: Bond Requirements
4-2-8: Classification Of Licenses
4-2-9: Number Of Licenses
4-2-10: License Fees
4-2-11: Term Of License
4-2-12: Transferability Of License; Change Of Location
4-2-13: Posting License; Duplicates
4-2-14: Open View From Street
4-2-15: Sanitary Conditions
4-2-16: Days And Hours Of Operation; Presence After Hours
4-2-17: Loitering Near Premises By Certain Persons Prohibited
4-2-18: Sales To Certain Persons Prohibited
4-2-19: Minors
4-2-20: Payment For Purchases Required
4-2-21: Additional Prohibited Acts Or Conditions
4-2-22: Inspections
4-2-23: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
4-2-24: Violations
4-2-25: Penalties
4-2-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
Each and every part of "an Act Relating to Alcoholic Liquors", enacted by the
General Assembly of the State, approved January 31, 1934, as the same is or may
be hereafter amended, which relates in any manner to the sale at retail of
alcoholic liquors, not heretofore used or adopted by reference or otherwise in
this chapter, is hereby adopted in this section and made a part of this
chapter, to the same extent and with the same legal effect as if fully set
forth herein, and any violation of such applicable and adopted provisions of
said Act shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and be subject to
penalties herein fixed. Three (3) copies of said Act shall be maintained on
file at the Office of the Village Clerk and shall be kept available for public
use, inspection and examination. (1987 Code § 3-6-17)
4-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to the definitions adopted by reference in section
4-2-1 of this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
set out in this section:
LICENSEE: Any person, firm, partnership, club, organization or corporation
receiving a license under this chapter.
LIQUOR: Any intoxicating malt, vinous, mixed or fermented liquor.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, club, organization or corporation.
RETAIL LIQUOR DEALER: Any "person", as defined herein, selling or offering for
sale or keeping with the intention of selling liquor at retail. (Ord. 18-2, 3-
13-2018; amd. 2018 Code)
4-2-3: ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIALS:
   A.   Liquor Control Commissioner:
      1.   President Serve As: The Village President shall constitute and be
the Liquor Control Commissioner of the Village.
      2.   Powers: Subject to the regulations and restrictions herein provided,
the President shall, as Liquor Control Commissioner, have the power to grant,
revoke and suspend licenses for sale at retail of any alcoholic beverages, and
to enter upon any licensed premises for inspection of the same in person or by
a police officer designated by him, and shall have such other powers relating
to liquor control as may be given him by ordinance or by law. (1987 Code § 3-6-
1-1)
   B.   Liquor Control Committee: The President shall appoint three (3)
Trustees who, together with the President, shall constitute the Liquor Control
Committee of the Village Board. Said Liquor Control Committee shall advise and
assist the Liquor Control Commissioner in the administration of the provisions
of this chapter. (1987 Code § 3-6-1-2)
4-2-4: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall sell, expose for sale or offer for sale at retail or display
within corporate limits of the Village any alcoholic liquor without first
obtaining a license from the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. (Ord. 18-2, 3-
13-2018)
4-2-5: INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE:
No such license shall be issued to any person:
   A.   Who is not a resident of the Village.
   B.   Who does not own the premises for which a license is sought or does not
have a valid lease thereon for the full period for which the license is to be
issued.
   C.   Who is not of good character and reputation in this community.
   D.   Who is in any manner disqualified from obtaining a State retail liquor
dealer's license under the laws of this State now in force relating to
alcoholic liquors or the nature of whose business or proposed business is such,
in the opinion of the Liquor Control Committee, that sale of liquor in
connection therewith will not be for the public good and convenience.
   E.   Who has failed to file with the application therefor, a policy of
insurance or satisfactory evidence that such policy of insurance has been
purchased and that the premium has been prepaid, insuring the applicant for
liability for: (1987 Code § 3-6-3-3)
      1.   Injury to one person: Five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00).
      2.   Injury to property: Fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00).
      3.   Recovery for means of support arising from death or injury to any
one person: Five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00).
      4.   Injury to person, property or loss of support in any one occurrence:
One million dollars ($1,000,000.00). (1987 Code § 3-6-3-3; amd. 2018 Code)
Said insurance policy shall list the Village as an additional party to receive
notice of cancellation of said policy. (1987 Code § 3-6-3-3)
4-2-6: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applications for such licenses shall be made to the Village President in
writing, accompanied by the proper fee, and shall provide the following:
   A.   Name, age and address of an individual applicant.
   B.   The name of the person entitled to participate in the profits, if it is
a partnership application.
   C.   The objects, names and addresses of the officers and directors, if a
corporate application, and whether or not one person owns a controlling
interest in such corporation, and if so, his name and address.
   D.   The citizenship, place of birth and place of naturalization, if foreign
born, of an individual applicant.
   E.   The location and a description of the type or nature of the premises
where such liquor will be sold, served or consumed.
   F.   Whether or not any previous similar license has been applied for, the
place of application and the disposition of such application and if revoked,
the reason therefor.
   G.   Whether or not the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony, been
an inmate or keeper of a house of ill fame, or any offense opposed to decency
and morality.
   H.   No license shall be issued to any person ineligible under State law. A
manager or agent is required to have the same qualifications as the person or
firm to whom the license is issued. The names of all managers shall be listed
on said application.
   I.   All applications shall be verified by the applicant or if a
corporation, by an authorized officer thereof.
   J.   The application shall be accompanied by a license fee herein provided.
   K.   Where the applicant is not the owner of the premises, said application
shall be accompanied by a valid lease between the owner and the applicant for a
minimum period of one year to coincide with the period for which the
application is made.
   L.   The licensee will not violate any of the laws of the Municipality,
State or United States of America in the conduct of his business.
   M.   No licensee shall lease from or directly or indirectly receive or
accept from any manufacturer, distiller, brewer, bottler, wholesaler, jobber or
distributor, or from any agent or representative thereof, gratuitously any
money or thing of value nor shall said licensee borrow money from or permit
said person(s) to obtain directly or indirectly any interest in the ownership,
conduct or operation of the applicant's retail liquor business.
   N.   No license shall be issued to any applicant indebted to the Village,
County or any department thereof.
   O.   That the applicant agrees that, in case a license is issued, he will
not violate the terms and provisions of this chapter in any respect, and that
he will permit, at any time, the Village President or any members of the Liquor
Control Committee, or any police officer of the Village, without a warrant, to
enter the licensed premises and search the same for the purpose of determining
whether this chapter is being violated. (1987 Code § 3-6-3-2; amd. 2018 Code)
4-2-7: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
The applicant shall also enter into a bond payable to the Village in the penal
sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), said bond to be executed by the
applicant or applicants and by some incorporated surety company duly authorized
to execute bonds of that character in the State of Illinois, or by personal
sureties approved by the President and the Liquor Control Committee,
conditioned upon the faithful observance of the laws of the State of Illinois
and the provisions of this chapter. (1987 Code § 3-6-4)
4-2-8: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES:
Licenses shall be, and are hereby divided into classes, as follows:
   A.   Class A Licenses: Class A licenses shall entitle the licensee to sell
all kinds of alcoholic liquors for consumption on the premises where sold or in
package quantities.
   B.   Class C Licenses: Class C licenses may be issued only to clubs or
fraternal orders, either having a charter from a State or national organization
or operating under and by the authority of an order or society which is
Statewide or national in scope. (1987 Code § 3-6-5)
4-2-9: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
   A.   Class A Licenses: Class A licenses are limited to three (3) in number.
   B.   Class C Licenses: Class C licenses are limited to two (2) in number.
(1987 Code § 3-6-6)
4-2-10: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   The annual fees for licenses under this chapter shall be as follows:
      1.   Class A license: Five hundred dollars ($500.00).
      2.   Class C license: Twenty five dollars ($25.00). (Ord., 7-5-1988; amd.
2018 Code)
   B.   All such fees shall be paid to the President or the Village Clerk at
the time application is made, and shall be forthwith turned over to the Village
Treasurer. In the event the license applied for is denied, the fee shall be
returned to the applicant; but if the license is granted, then the fee shall be
deposited in the General Corporate Fund or in such other fund as shall have
been designated by the Board. (1987 Code § 3-6-7)
4-2-11: TERM OF LICENSE:
Each license issued under this chapter shall terminate at twelve o'clock (12:
00) midnight on April 30 next following its issuance, unless sooner revoked.
(1987 Code § 3-6-3-4)
4-2-12: TRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE; CHANGE OF LOCATION:
   A.   Transferability Of License:
      1.   No license issued pursuant hereto shall be transferable except in
case of death of the licensee, whereupon said license shall be canceled unless
it is reissued upon proper application and in compliance with 235 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/16-1 to the spouse, heir at law or next of kin of the
licensee. (Ord. 18-2, 3-13-2018; amd. 2018 Code)
2. No license shall be transferred without the consent of the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner.
3. When a licensee sells or transfers his business to another, such successor
shall pay to the Village a fee equal to the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) per
month or partial month remaining on said license before its expiration, up to a
maximum of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) in cases where an existing valid
license is reissued to such successor after he qualifies, for use at the same
location, in which event, the seller/licensee shall surrender his license for
cancellation which shall conclude his interest therein. The successor shall
first qualify and comply with all requirements of this chapter and pay in
advance for the reissuance of said license. (Ord. 18-2, 3-13-2018)
B. Change Of Location: A liquor dealer's license shall permit the sale of
alcoholic beverages only on the premises which is required to be described in
the application and license. Such location may be changed only upon the written
permission of the President and approval of the Liquor Control Committee and
which shall be issued by the Liquor Control Commissioner. No change of location
shall be permitted unless the proposed new location is a proper one for the
sale of alcoholic liquor under the laws of this State and the ordinances of the
Village. The fee to transfer use of a license from one location to another,
after permission is granted, shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). (1987 Code § 3-6-
3-6; amd. Ord. 18-2, 3-13-2018)
4-2-13: POSTING LICENSE; DUPLICATES:
Every person licensed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall
immediately post and keep posted while in effect, in a conspicuous place on the
premises, the license so issued. In the event such license shall be lost or
destroyed, a duplicate in lieu thereof shall be issued by the Village Clerk
upon direction of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner. The fee for the
duplicate license is fifty dollars ($50.00). (1987 Code § 3-6-12; amd. 2018
Code)
4-2-14: OPEN VIEW FROM STREET:
A. No curtains, drapes, screens, doors, partitions or view obstructing devices
shall be used or built within any establishment or premises used by any
licensee for sale of liquor, erected for the purpose of concealment or hiding
any person or patron in such establishment.
B. The interior doors of said licensed premises shall, at all times during
business hours, remain unlocked, and the exterior windows shall, at all times,
be maintained in a condition so as to afford an unobstructed view of the entire
interior of the premises from the exterior thereof during the hours that liquor
is sold therein. (1987 Code § 3-6-10)
4-2-15: SANITARY CONDITIONS:
A. Premises:
1. Sanitary measures for cleaning and caring for all glasses, dishes, utensils
and equipment shall be provided for by all licensees hereunder.
2. No license shall be granted to any applicant for the sale of intoxicating
liquors for consumption on the premises unless separate sanitary toilets for
men and women have been installed and provided on said premises, and such
toilets shall, at all times, be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition,
shall have hot and cold running water and shall be in compliance with all
Village ordinances.
B. Licensees And Employees: The licensees and the employees on premises used
for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor shall comply with the provisions of
State law relative to the health and cleanliness of employees selling food and
drink. (1987 Code § 3-6-11)
4-2-16: DAYS AND HOURS OF OPERATION; PRESENCE AFTER HOURS:
A. No holder of any license issued under the provisions of this chapter shall
sell any alcoholic liquor between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and nine
o'clock (9:00) A.M. on any day, other than Sunday, which shall be between the
hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. During such
closed hours, it shall be unlawful to consume, or to permit the consumption of,
or to sell, alcoholic liquor on any licensed premises.
B. No licensee shall permit any person or persons other than licensees or
employees to remain in the premises where liquor is offered for sale longer
than thirty (30) minutes after said closing hour. The hours herein stated shall
be the time prevailing in the Village (i.e., DST or CST). (1987 Code § 3-6-9)
4-2-17: LOITERING NEAR PREMISES BY CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED:
No person under the age of twenty one (21) years unaccompanied by his or her
parents or legal guardian and no person who is intoxicated shall be permitted
to loiter about any licensed premises; provided, however, that this section
shall not apply to hotels, restaurants where regular meals are being served,
stores, clubs, bowling alleys, etc. (1987 Code § 3-6-14; amd. 2018 Code)
4-2-18: SALES TO CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED:
No licensee shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to any minor or to any
intoxicated person, except as provided in 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-
16.1. (1987 Code § 3-6-14; amd. 2018 Code)
4-2-19: MINORS:
A. Purchasing: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one
(21) years to purchase or obtain any alcoholic liquor in any tavern or other
place in the Village where alcoholic liquor is sold.
B. Misrepresentation Of Age: It shall be unlawful for any person under the age
of twenty one (21) years to misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of
purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor in any tavern or other place in the
Village where alcoholic liquor is sold.
C. Providing To: It shall be unlawful for any adult to give, sell or deliver to
any minor, directly or indirectly, any alcoholic liquor. (1987 Code § 3-6-14)
4-2-20: PAYMENT FOR PURCHASES REQUIRED:
Treating or giving away, directly or indirectly, of any intoxicating liquor
hereunder by the holder of any license at his place of business herein, by
either himself or by and through any servant, agent, employee or person on his
behalf, is hereby prohibited. (1987 Code § 3-6-15; amd. 2018 Code)
4-2-21: ADDITIONAL PROHIBITED ACTS OR CONDITIONS:
A. Consumption On Unlicensed Premises Or In Public:
1. No person shall bring any alcoholic liquor into any dining room of any
hotel, restaurant, club room or place where lunches are served, or where soft
drinks are sold or a soda fountain is operated, or into any public place for
consumption, or for use for mixing with or "spiking" any alcoholic liquor or
any other beverage whatsoever.
2. No owner or proprietor or agent or employee thereof of any restaurant, store
or other commercial establishment inviting or permitting public patronage,
shall permit the consumption of alcoholic liquors on the premises except those
specifically licensed for consumption on the premises.
3. No person shall consume any alcoholic liquor on any street, alley, sidewalk
or other public property or in any automobile or vehicle traveling upon or
parked on any street, alley or public property. (1987 Code § 3-6-16)
B. Gambling; Immorality:
1. No lottery except as authorized by 20 Illinois Compiled Statutes 1605/1 et
seq., of the Illinois Lottery Law, game of chance, gambling or gaming device,
except video gaming as permitted by 230 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/1 et
seq., shall be kept or used in any premises licensed hereunder nor shall any
licensee permit any illegal, disorderly or immoral practices upon the licensed
premises. (1987 Code § 3-6-16; amd. 2018 Code)
2. No person reputed to be a gambler or having been convicted of gambling or
having any connection with any alleged gambling house shall be granted a
license to sell alcoholic liquor. (1987 Code § 3-6-16)
4-2-22: INSPECTIONS:
All licensees are hereby required to make available for inspection by the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner and Police Committee Chairperson, or designee, the
premises where liquor is sold, served or consumed. (1987 Code § 3-6-13; amd.
2018 Code)
4-2-23: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may suspend or revoke any license issued
under this chapter for any one or more of the following reasons:
A. Violations of the laws of the United States government, the laws of the
State or any of the ordinances of the Village.
B. Knowingly permitting any violation of this chapter or any disorderly or
immoral practices upon the premises for which the license is issued.
C. Wilfully making any false statements as to a material fact in the
application for a license.
D. Failure of the licensee for any cause whatsoever to operate and maintain a
place of business at the location and on the premises pursuant to the purpose
for which the license was issued under this chapter.
E. Any license issued hereunder shall be kept continuously in effect and use in
any operative business during the period for which it is issued and when said
business is abandoned, closed or for any reason becomes inoperative for a
period of thirty (30) days or more, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner, in
his discretion, may revoke said license. (1987 Code § 3-6-18)
4-2-24: VIOLATIONS:
A. If the owner of the licensed premises or any person from whom the licensee
derives the right to possession of such premises, or the agent of such owner or
person, shall knowingly permit the licensee to use said licensed premises in
violation of the terms of this chapter, said owner, agent or other person shall
be deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter to the same extent as shall
said licensee and shall be subject to the same punishment as said licensee.
B. Every act or omission of whatsoever nature constituting a violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter by any officer, director, manager or agent or
employee of any licensee shall be deemed and held to be the act of such
employer or licensee and said employer or licensee shall be subject to
punishment in the same manner as if said act or omission had been done or
omitted by him personally. (1987 Code § 3-6-19)
4-2-25: PENALTIES:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be fined according to section
1-4-1 of this Code. Revocation or suspension of a license may be in addition to
the imposition of a fine or other penalty for violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter, and such revocation or suspension shall be no
defense to a prosecution for such violations. (1987 Code § 3-6-20)
CHAPTER 3
GAME MACHINES; VIDEO GAMING TERMINALS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Definitions
4-3-2: County And State Regulations Adopted
4-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section:
CASINO GAME MACHINE: A game machine in which the game played is a mechanical or
video version of a traditional casino game including, but not limited to,
poker, craps, blackjack, slots, and roulette.
GAMBLING DEVICE: Any clock, tape machine, slot machine or other machines or
devices for the reception of money or other thing of value on chance or skill
or upon the action of which money or other thing of value is staked, hazarded,
bet, won or lost; or any mechanism, furniture, fixture, equipment or other
device designed primarily for use in a gambling place.
GAME MACHINE: A money-in-the-slot or coin-in-the-slot operated mechanical
device played for amusement which rewards the player with the right to replay
such mechanical device, or which allows the player to proceed to progressive
levels, which device is so constructed or devised as to make such result of the
operation depend in part upon the skill of the player and which returns to the
player thereof no money, property or right to receive money or property. The
term "game machine" shall include, but not be limited to, all devices commonly
known as video games, arcade games, or pinball machines. The term "game
machine" shall not include common parlor games such as pool, table tennis, and
darts. This definition is intended to be broadly construed, and all machines
that have mechanical parts that in any way resemble "game machines", as defined
herein, shall be licensed.
LICENSEE: Anyone licensed under this chapter.
PUBLIC GAME MACHINE PLACE: Any real estate, vehicle, boat, and/or property,
whatsoever, open to the public which contains one or more game machines. (Ord.
18-1, 3-13-2018; amd. 2018 Code)
4-3-2: COUNTY AND STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
   A.   County Gambling Regulations: All sections of the Kankakee County
Municipal Code of 1981 concerning gambling, licensing, and penalties regarding
gambling machines in the County, sections 38-84, 38-85, and 38-86 of said Code,
are hereby adopted by reference.
   B.   State Video Gaming Act: The Illinois Video Gaming Act, 230 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 40/1 et seq., published as of May 2012, is hereby adopted by
reference. The gambling activity shall be conducted in complete compliance with
any and all requirements of said Act and in compliance with any and all rules,
regulations, opinions, and administrative decisions of the Illinois Department
of Revenue and/or the Illinois Gaming Board.
   C.   Copies On File: Copies of the regulations adopted in subsections A and
B of this section are on file in the Office of the Village Clerk for public use
and inspection. (Ord. 18-1, 3-13-2018; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 4
SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Exemptions From Provisions
4-4-3: Permit And License Required; Fee And Term
4-4-4: Verification Statement And Bond Requirements
4-4-5: Uninvited Soliciting Or Peddling
4-4-6: False Representation Prohibited
4-4-7: Street Intersection Soliciting
4-4-8: Penalty
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
PEDDLER: Every person who shall sell or offer for sale, barter or exchange any
goods, wares, merchandise, fruits, vegetables or produce by traveling from
place to place on, along or upon the streets, alleys or sidewalks of the
Village, or who shall sell and deliver any such items from any wagon, pushcart,
automobile or other vehicle going from place to place, or who shall go about
from place to place selling and delivering any such items.
SOLICITOR: Any person engaged in any one or more of the following activities:
   A.   Seeking to obtain either for immediate or future delivery, for the
purchase of goods, wares, merchandise, foodstuffs, services of any kind,
character or description whatever, for any kind of consideration whatever;
   B.   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase of
insurance of any type, kind or character;
   C.   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type or kind of publication; or
   D.   Going upon any premises and ringing the doorbell upon or near any door,
or creating any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of engaging in any of the
activities described in subsections A, B and C of this definition. (1987 Code §
3-5-1)
4-4-2: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the term "solicitor" or "peddler" shall not
include any person engaged in the following activities:
   A.   Seeking to obtain contributions on behalf of any charitable, religious,
civic, local fire or police auxiliary, school or scouting organization or any
other not for profit organization in good standing in the State;
   B.   Seeking to obtain signatures to petitions on political or public policy
questions or matters; or
   C.   Seeking to conduct any of the activities enumerated in section
4-4-1 of this chapter when undertaken by any person pursuant to a previous
appointment or invitation of the party being conducted. (1987 Code § 3-5-2)
4-4-3: PERMIT AND LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE AND TERM:
Before entering into any orders, sales or contracts, said peddler or solicitor
shall secure a permit from the Police Committee Chairperson and/or Village
Clerk certifying that there has been compliance with the provisions of this
chapter as set forth herein and fulfilled. Said permit shall then be deposited
with the Village Clerk and a license issued upon the payment of a fee of twenty
five dollars ($25.00), which license shall be valid for a period of one month.
(1987 Code § 3-5-8; amd. 2018 Code)
4-4-4: VERIFICATION STATEMENT AND BOND REQUIREMENTS:
Each such peddler or solicitor subject to the provisions of this chapter shall
file with the Police Committee Chairperson a verification statement of his
residence, the principal or employer's name and address and the assets and
liabilities of said peddler or solicitor. In addition thereto, the peddler or
solicitor shall give and enter into a proper and suitable bond to the Village
in the penal sum of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00), signed by responsible
sureties or a surety company and conditioned that said peddler or solicitor
fully and faithfully will secure performance of his part of all sales and
contracts made by him and will account for all monies so received by him and
will reimburse each of his said purchasers or contractors, if the principal of
the peddler or solicitor repudiates the authority of the peddler or solicitor,
or refuses, without lawful reason, to complete and fulfill his part of the
order, sale or contract. (1987 Code § 3-5-7; amd. 2018 Code)
4-4-5: UNINVITED SOLICITING OR PEDDLING:
   A.   No person shall engage in soliciting or peddling upon any premises or
in any dwelling house, apartment or other residence located thereon within the
Village after having been asked by the owner or occupant thereof to leave such
premises or residence, nor shall any person engage in solicitation or peddling
upon any premises or in any dwelling house, apartment or other residence
located thereon if such premises or building is posted against solicitation or
peddling by means of a notice prominently displayed, upon which is printed one
of the following:
   NO SOLICITORS OR PEDDLERS
   or
   NO TRESPASSING
   B.   The above notice shall be posted or exhibited at or near the main
entrance to the premises or on or near the main door to any dwelling or
residence thereon or at any point of approach or entry thereto. (1987 Code § 3-
5-3)
4-4-6: FALSE REPRESENTATION PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any peddler or solicitor to solicit orders, or
to make sales of goods, merchandise, magazines, services or wares, or to enter
into contracts, where any money or other valuable consideration is sought,
asked for or received in advance from any person within the Village and before
the entire completion and fulfillment of the order, sale or contract on the
part of the peddler or solicitor, or his principal, unless said peddler or
solicitor in fact represents the principal for whom he purports to act, and
unless the said peddler or solicitor further supplies satisfactory proof that
he will and is financially able to account for all monies and considerations
received by him in advance on said order, sale or contract. (1987 Code § 3-5-6)
   B.   The Police Committee Chairperson, in his discretion and at the expense
of the peddler or solicitor, may telephone, telegraph or otherwise communicate
with the alleged principal to verify the alleged agency. (1987 Code § 3-5-6;
amd. 2018 Code)
4-4-7: STREET INTERSECTION SOLICITING:
   A.   Eligibility To Solicit: No charitable or not for profit organization or
other person shall conduct solicitation activities on or within any of the
street intersections within the Village, unless such organization shall be:
      1.   Registered with the Attorney General as a charitable organization in
the manner provided by law.
      2.   Engaged in Statewide fundraising activities.
      3.   Liable for any injuries to any person or property during such
solicitation activity which is casually related to an act of ordinary
negligence of the soliciting agent.
      4.   Liable for any increase in the cost of liability insurance taken by
the Village with respect to said street intersection solicitation activity.
      5.   Restricted in its solicitation activities to representatives or
agents who shall be eighteen (18) years of age or more and who shall be wearing
a high visibility vest, with no more than four (4) such persons being allowed
to actually solicit on or within an intersection at any one time.
      6.   Able to first furnish a valid certificate of liability insurance
with an insurer approved by the Village naming the Village as an additional
insured with respect to such solicitation activities.
      7.   Able to first execute a hold harmless and indemnification agreement
with the Village with respect to such solicitation activities. (1987 Code § 3-
5-4)
   B.   Permission Required: Any organization eligible to conduct solicitation
activities shall obtain permission for such solicitation from the Police
Committee Chairperson. It shall be the duty of the Police Committee Chairperson
to see that the applicant complies with eligibility requirements contained in
subsection A of this section, and in addition, the Police Committee Chairperson
must also find that the locations, times and durations of the proposed
solicitation activity and the number of proposed solicitors shall not result in
an interference with the flow of vehicular traffic or otherwise create a
hazardous and unsafe condition at any such street intersection. (1987 Code § 3-
5-5; amd. 2018 Code)
4-4-8: PENALTY:
All violations of this chapter shall be enforced in accordance with section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1987 Code § 3-5-9)
TITLE 5
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Nuisances Enumerated
5-1-2: Nonsummary Abatement
5-1-3: Summary Abatement
5-1-1: NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
The following acts, conduct and conditions are hereby declared and defined to
be nuisances, and when committed, performed or permitted to exist by any
individual, firm, association or corporation within the territorial limits of
the Village are hereby declared to be unlawful and prohibited:
   A.   Any act or offense which is a nuisance according to the common law of
the State of Illinois or declared or defined to be a nuisance by the ordinances
of the Village. In addition, the officials of the Village shall be authorized
to abate any nuisance which, while not specifically defined within this
chapter, shall constitute the unreasonable, unwarrantable or unlawful use by a
person of property, real or personal, or from his own improper, indecent or
unlawful personal conduct which works an obstruction or injury to a right of
another, or of the public, and produces such material annoyance, inconvenience,
discomfort or hurt that the law will presume an actionable nuisance. Nuisances
may be abated which are public or which are both public and private in nature.
   B.   To cause or suffer the carcass of any animal or any offal, filth or
noisome substance to be collected, deposited or to remain in any place under
his ownership or control to the prejudice of others.
   C.   To throw or deposit any offal or other offensive matter, or the carcass
of any dead animal in any watercourse, lake, pond, spring, well or common
sewer, street, alley, public highway, churches, school premises, or park.
   D.   To corrupt or render unwholesome or impure the water of any spring,
river, stream, pond or lake, to the injury or prejudice of others.
   E.   To obstruct or encroach upon public highways, private ways, streets,
alleys, commons, landing places, and ways to burying places.
   F.   To erect, continue or use any building or other place for the exercise
of any trade, employment or manufacture, which, by occasioning noxious
exhalations, offensive smells or otherwise, is offensive or dangerous to the
health of individuals, or of the public.
   G.   To advertise wares or occupations by painting notices of the same on,
or affixing them to fences, walls, windows, building exteriors, utility poles,
or on hydrants, other public or private property, or rocks or other natural
objects, without the consent of the owner, or if in the highway or other public
place, without permission of the proper authorities.
   H.   To harass, intimidate or threaten any person who is about to sell or
lease or has sold or leased a residence or other real property or is about to
buy or lease or has bought or leased a residence or other real property, when
the harassment, intimidation or threat relates to a person's attempt to sell,
buy or lease a residence, or other real property, or refers to a person's sale,
purchase or lease of a residence or other real property.
   I.   To dump, abandon, deposit, dismantle or burn upon any public property
or right-of-way, highway, park, street, or parkway anywhere in the Village, any
trash, garbage, ashes, junk, junked or wrecked motor vehicles or parts thereof,
or miscellaneous waste. (1987 Code §
8-1-1)
   J.   To store, keep or maintain outside of a closed building, any junk,
parts, machinery or equipment not in an operable condition, or motor vehicle
not in an operable condition, where such inoperable motor vehicle is an actual
danger or detriment to life, safety, health or peaceful enjoyment of the
property of surrounding landowners. (1987 Code §
8-1-1; amd. 2018 Code)
   K.   To own, maintain or keep a dwelling unit unfit for human habitation, or
dangerous or detrimental to life, safety or health because of lack of repair,
defects in the plumbing system, lighting or ventilation, the existence of
contagious diseases or unsanitary conditions likely to cause sickness among
persons residing in said premises or residing in proximity thereof.
   L.   To store or place any materials in a manner which may harbor rats.
   M.   To produce or permit to be produced, whether on public or private
property, any offensive noise to the disturbance of the peace or quiet of any
person residing in the vicinity.
   N.   To stockpile firewood unless same is stacked in an orderly fashion, off
the ground, and on a hard surface.
   O.   To grade, fill, excavate or otherwise alter real property in a manner
which causes an unreasonable amount of water to be discharged on adjoining
property.
   P.   To locate or maintain a stable, pigsty, or privy within the corporate
limits of the Village.
   Q.   To locate or maintain at any place within the Village or within a
radius of one mile from the corporate limits and without the Village, any
slaughterhouse, packing house, rendering establishment or bone factory; or to
suffer or permit any premises at any place within the corporate limits to
become foul or offensive.
   R.   To permit foul or stagnant water to stand upon any premises to the
prejudice of others.
   S.   To suffer any cellar, vault, drain, privy, yard or premises to become,
for any cause, foul or offensive or injurious to public health.
   T.   To suffer any premises where any animal is kept to become nauseous,
foul or offensive to any neighborhood, family or person.
   U.   To deposit or permit to remain on any premises or public street or
alley, slops or animal or vegetable matter of any kind, which is likely to
become putrid and offensive. (1987 Code §
8-1-1)
5-1-2: NONSUMMARY ABATEMENT:
   A.   Notice Requirements: Except where otherwise provided by the ordinances
of the Village, any officer of the Village possessing police powers may serve
or cause to be served a notice, in writing, upon the owner, agent, occupant or
person in possession, charge or control of any lot, building or premises or
item of personalty in or upon which any nuisance exists, requiring them or
either or both of them, to abate the same within a specified reasonable time,
in such manner as the notice shall direct. (1987 Code § 
8-1-2)
   B.   Procedure: If the person so served and notified does not abate the
nuisance within the specified reasonable time, the Corporate Authorities may
proceed to abate the nuisance in any or all manner allowable by law, including,
without limiting the generality thereof, the following:
      1.   Seeking to impose a monetary penalty under section
1-4-1 of this Code by instituting an ordinance enforcement action.
      2.   Seeking to enjoin the continuation of the nuisance by the filing of
a lawsuit in a court of competent jurisdiction. (1987 Code §
8-1-3)
5-1-3: SUMMARY ABATEMENT:
Whenever, in the opinion of an officer of the Village possessing police powers,
the maintenance or continuation of a nuisance creates an imminent threat of
serious injury to persons or serious damage to personal or real property, or if
the nuisance can be abated summarily without or with only minor damage to the
items or premises which are creating the nuisance, then the continuation of the
nuisance poses a substantial threat of injury to person or property or
substantial interference with the quiet enjoyment of life normally present in
the community, such officer shall proceed to abate such nuisance; provided,
further, that whenever the owner, occupant, agent or person in possession,
charge or control of the real or personal property which has become a nuisance
is unknown or cannot readily be found, the Village officer with police power
may proceed to abate such nuisance without notice. Where the abatement of the
nuisance requires continuing acts by the Corporate Authorities beyond the
initial summary abatement and any other additional emergency abatements, it
shall seek abatement of such nuisance on a permanent basis through judicial
process as soon as reasonably possible. (1987 Code §
8-1-4)
CHAPTER 2
VEGETATION CONTROL
SECTION:
5-2-1: Weeds Declared A Nuisance And Prohibited
5-2-2: Height Restriction
5-2-3: Removal Notice
5-2-4: Abatement By Village; Costs
5-2-1: WEEDS DECLARED A NUISANCE AND PROHIBITED:
Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur or other weeds
of a like kind, found growing in any lot or tract of land in the Village are
hereby declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be unlawful to permit any such
weeds to grow or remain in any such place. (1987 Code § 8-5-1)
5-2-2: HEIGHT RESTRICTION:
It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any weeds, grass or plants, other
than trees, bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants to grow to a height
exceeding eight inches (8") anywhere in the Village. Any such plants, grass or
weeds exceeding such height are hereby declared to be a nuisance. (Ord., 8-3-
1996)
5-2-3: REMOVAL NOTICE:
It shall be the duty of the Police Committee Chairperson to serve or cause to
be served a notice upon the owner or occupant of any premises on which plants,
grass or weeds are permitted to grow in violation of the provisions of this
chapter and to demand the abatement of the nuisance within ten (10) days. (1987
Code § 8-5-3; amd. 2018 Code)
5-2-4: ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE; COSTS:
   A.   Abatement By Village: If the person so served does not abate the
nuisance within ten (10) days, any Village Board member may proceed to abate
such nuisance, keeping an account of the expense of the abatement, and such
expense shall be charged and paid by the owner or occupant. If the Village is
responsible for the abatement, there will be a two hundred dollar ($200.00)
charge each time abatement is required. (1987 Code § 8-5-4; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Costs A Lien: Charges for such plant, grass or weed removal shall be a
lien upon the premises. Whenever a bill for such charges remains unpaid for
thirty (30) days after it has been rendered, the Village Clerk may file with
the County Recorder of Deeds a statement of lien claim. This statement shall
contain a legal description of the premises, the expenses and costs incurred
and the date the plants, grass or weeds were cut, and a notice that the Village
claims a lien for this amount. Notice of such lien claim shall be mailed to the
owner of the premises if his address is known; provided, however, that failure
of the Village Clerk to record such lien claim or to mail such notice, or the
failure of the owner to receive such notice, shall not affect the right to
foreclose the lien for such charges as provided herein. (1987 Code § 8-5-5)
   C.   Foreclosure Of Lien:
      1.   Property subject to a lien for unpaid plant, grass or weed cutting
charges shall be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of such sale
shall be applied to pay the charges after deducting costs, as is the case in
the foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be in equity in the
name of the Village.
      2.   The Village Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute
such proceedings, in the name of the Village in any court having jurisdiction
over such matter, against any property for which such bill has remained unpaid
sixty (60) days after it has been rendered. (1987 Code § 8-5-6)
CHAPTER 3
LITTER CONTROL
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: Use Of Receptacles Required
5-3-3: Sidewalks To Be Kept Clear; Prohibitions
5-3-4: Private Property
5-3-5: Parks
5-3-6: Additional Prohibitions
5-3-7: Penalty
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words used in
the plural number include the singular number, and words used in the singular
number include the plural number. The word "shall" is always mandatory and not
merely directory.
GARBAGE: Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
LITTER: "Garbage", "refuse" and "rubbish" as defined herein and all other waste
material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a
danger to public health, safety and welfare.
PARK: A park, playground, recreation center or any other public area in the
Village, owned or used by the Village and devoted to active or passive
recreation.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
PRIVATE PREMISES: Any dwelling, house, building or other structure designed or
used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes, whether
inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and shall
include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox
belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building or other structure.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings.
REFUSE: All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes, except body wastes,
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned
automobiles, and solid market and industrial wastes.
RUBBISH: Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar
materials.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
VILLAGE: The Village of Buckingham, Illinois. (1987 Code § 8-4-1)
5-3-2: USE OF RECEPTACLES REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, sidewalk
or other public place within the Village, except in public receptacles, in
private receptacles for collection or in official Village dumps.
   B.   Persons placing litter in receptacles or in private receptacles shall
do so in such manner as to prevent it from being carried or deposited by the
elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or upon private
property. (1987 Code § 8-4-2)
5-3-3: SIDEWALKS TO BE KEPT CLEAR; PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   1. No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other
public place within the Village the accumulation of litter from any building or
lot or from any public or private sidewalk or driveway.
      2.   Persons owning or occupying property shall keep the sidewalk in
front of their premises free of litter.
   B.   1. No person owning or occupying a place of business shall sweep into
or deposit in any gutter, street or other public place within the Village, the
accumulation of litter from any building or lot or from any public or private
sidewalk or driveway.
      2.   Persons owning or occupying places of business within the Village
shall keep the sidewalk in front of their business premises free of litter.
(1987 Code § 8-4-3)
5-3-4: PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   Occupied Private Property:
      1.   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the Village, whether owned by such person or not; except, that
the owner or person in control of private property may maintain private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other
public place or upon any private property.
      2.   The owner or person in control of any private premises shall, at all
times, maintain the premises free of litter; provided, however, that this
subsection shall not prohibit the storage of litter in private receptacles for
collection.
   B.   Vacant Private Property: No person shall throw or deposit litter on any
open or vacant private property within the Village, whether owned by such
person or not. (1987 Code § 8-4-7)
   C.   Clearing From Open Private Property By Village:
      1.   Notice To Remove: The Police Committee Chairperson is hereby
authorized and empowered to notify the owner of any open or vacant private
property within the Village or the agent of such owner to properly dispose of
litter located on such owner's property which is dangerous to public health,
safety or welfare. Such notice shall be by registered mail, addressed to said
owner at the address listed on the Village records or by affixing the same in a
conspicuous position on said premises.
      2.   Action Upon Noncompliance: Upon the failure, neglect or refusal of
any owner or agent so notified to properly dispose of litter dangerous to the
public health, safety or welfare within ten (10) days after receipt of written
notice provided for in subsection C1 of this section, or within ten (10) days
after the posting of the premises as herein provided, the Police Committee
Chairperson is hereby authorized and empowered to pay for the disposing of such
litter or to order its disposal by the Village. (1987 Code § 8-4-7; amd. 2018
Code)
      3.   Costs:
         a.   Bill For Service; Failure To Pay: When the Village has effected
the removal of such dangerous litter or has paid for its removal, the actual
cost thereof, plus accrued interest at the rate of ten percent (10%) per annum
from the date of the completion of the work, if not paid by said owner prior
thereto, shall be charged to the owner of such property on the next regular
bill forwarded to such owner by the Village, and said charge shall be due and
payable by said owner at the time of payment of such bill.
         b.   Costs A Lien: Where the full amount due the Village is not paid
by such owner within sixty (60) days after the disposal of such litter as
provided in subsections C1 and C2 of this section, then and in that case, the
Village Clerk shall cause to be recorded in the Office of the County Recorder
of Deeds a sworn statement showing the cost and expense incurred for the work,
the date the work was done and the location of the property on which said work
was done. The recording of such sworn statement shall constitute a lien and
privilege on the property, and shall remain in full force and effect for the
amount due in principal and interest, plus costs of court, if any, for
collection until final payment has been made. Said costs and expenses shall be
collected in the manner fixed by law for the collection of taxes and further
shall be subject to a delinquency penalty of ten percent (10%) in the event the
same is not paid in full on or before the date the tax bill upon which said
charge appears becomes delinquent. Sworn statements recorded in accordance with
the provisions hereof shall be prima facie evidence that all legal formalities
have been complied with and that the work has been done properly and
satisfactorily, and shall be full notice to every person concerned that the
amount of the statement, plus interest, constitutes a charge against the
property designated or described in the statement and that the same is due and
collectible as provided by law.
   D.   Garbage Containers And Pick Up:
      1.   Placement For Pick Up: For those property owners/renters who have no
alley access from which garbage and rubbish may be collected, their garbage and
rubbish container must be kept at the rear of their property until no sooner
than the night before the scheduled pick up, at which time, containers may be
placed at the right-of-way line for pick up.
      2.   Removal After Pick Up: All property owners/renters who have placed
their garbage or rubbish containers at the right-of-way line for pick up must
remove said container no later than the night of the scheduled pick up and
place said container at the rear of their property. (1987 Code § 8-4-7)
      3.   Collection Fee: For garbage collection, the Village shall charge the
rates set out in subsection 8-3-4B of this Code. (Ord., 9-7-1996; amd. 2018
Code)
5-3-5: PARKS:
   A.   Litter In Parks Generally: No person shall throw or deposit litter in
any park within the Village, except in public receptacles and in such a manner
that the litter will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the
elements upon any part of the park or upon any street or other public place.
Where public receptacles are not provided, all such litter shall be carried
away from the park by the person responsible for its presence and properly
disposed of elsewhere as provided herein.
   B.   Bodies Of Water: No person shall throw or deposit litter in any
fountain, pond, stream or any other body of water in a park or elsewhere within
the Village. (1987 Code § 8-4-6)
5-3-6: ADDITIONAL PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Throwing From Vehicle: No person, while a driver or passenger in a
vehicle, shall throw or deposit litter upon any street or other public place
within the Village or upon private property. (1987 Code § 8-4-4)
   B.   Spilling Loads; Mud And Dirt Deposits: No person shall drive or move
any truck or other vehicle within the Village unless such vehicle is so
constructed or loaded as to prevent any load, contents or litter from being
blown or deposited upon any street, alley or other public place. Nor shall any
person drive or move any vehicle or truck within the Village, the wheels or
tires of which carry onto or deposit in any street, alley or other public
place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of any kind.
(1987 Code § 8-4-5)
   C.   Depositing Tires: The dumping or depositing of tires is hereby declared
a nuisance and prohibited within the Village.
   D.   Improper Depositing: It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
person or entity to place, deposit or leave for pick up any solid waste or any
recyclable materials on any property not owned or occupied by that person
without the consent of the property owner.
   E.   Exterior Storage: No person in charge of or in control of premises,
whether as owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or otherwise, shall allow any
lumber, junk, trash, debris, abandoned, discarded or unused objects or
equipment such as furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans or
containers to remain on such property longer than five (5) days. (Ord. 12-2, 2-
6-2012)
5-3-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any portion of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code, and each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable hereunder
as such. (1987 Code § 8-4-8; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 4
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
5-4-1: Authority To Prohibit Burning
5-4-2: Permitted Hours
5-4-3: Hazardous Burns
5-4-4: Burning Leaves
5-4-5: Exemptions
5-4-1: AUTHORITY TO PROHIBIT BURNING:
The Village Board shall prohibit any or all bonfires and outdoor rubbish fires
when atmospheric conditions or local circumstances make such fires hazardous.
(1987 Code § 8-6-6)
5-4-2: PERMITTED HOURS:
All outdoor burning in the Village not otherwise excepted herein shall be done
between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. (1987 Code §
8-6-1; amd. 2018 Code)
5-4-3: HAZARDOUS BURNS:
It shall be unlawful to light or maintain any fire in the Village so close to
any building, structure, utility pole, wires of utility companies, fences,
automobiles or trucks so as to create a fire hazard. (1987 Code § 8-6-2)
5-4-4: BURNING LEAVES:
The conditions of the burning of leaves shall be:
   A.   All leaf fires are to be supervised at all times by the occupant, owner
or tenant or by such person designated thereby.
   B.   All leaf fires shall be kept at a minimum distance so as not to
endanger property or lives.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn leaves upon any bituminous
or asphalt pavement, public sidewalk or on any street or alley on which it is
prohibited by Village ordinance. (1987 Code § 8-6-4)
5-4-5: EXEMPTIONS:
It is not the intent of this chapter to prohibit the use of outdoor fireplaces,
barbecue pits or burners for the preparation of food or bonfires, provided such
use creates no fire hazard or public nuisance. (1987 Code § 8-6-5)
CHAPTER 5
ABANDONED, INOPERABLE VEHICLES
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definitions
5-5-2: Nuisances Declared And Prohibited
5-5-3: Notice To Abate
5-5-4: Abatement By Village
5-5-5: Impoundment And Disposition Of Vehicles
5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
the chapter:
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE: A. A motor vehicle which has to be licensed and
registered, i.e., automobile, truck, motorcycle, motorized camper, which for at
least one month, the engine, wheels, or other parts have been removed, altered,
damaged, or otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being used as
designed.
   B.   A motor vehicle is deemed to be inoperable if either of the following
occurs:
1. No valid registration is issued for said vehicle for a period of one month.
2. No movement of the vehicle under its own power for a period of at least one
month if such registration is necessary for the operation on a street or
highway.
   C.   "Inoperable motor vehicle" shall not include a motor vehicle which, in
order to perform ordinary service or repair operations, has been rendered
temporarily incapable of being used as designed for a period not to exceed one
month, and any vehicle that has been completely covered over by a proper
covering, i.e., tarp, etc.
PROPERTY: Any real property within the Village which is not a street or
highway.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
the purposes of vehicular travel.
VEHICLE: A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to travel
along the ground by use of wheel, and transport persons or property or pull
machinery and shall include, without limitation, automobiles, trucks,
motorcycles, and motorized campers. (Ord. 02-2, 5-14-2002; amd. 2018 Code)
5-5-2: NUISANCES DECLARED AND PROHIBITED:
The following acts, conduct and conditions are hereby declared and defined to
be a nuisance and when committed, performed or permitted to exist by any person
within the limits of the Village, are hereby declared to be unlawful and
prohibited:
   A.   To store, keep or maintain outside of a closed building any inoperable
vehicle unless the vehicle is completely covered with a proper covering.
   B.   To abandon any vehicle within the Village limits.
   C.   To leave any vehicle at any place within the Village for such time and
under such circumstances as to cause the vehicle to reasonably appear to have
been abandoned.
   D.   To leave any partially dismantled, inoperable, wrecked or junked
vehicle on any street or highway within the Village. (Ord. 02-2, 5-14-2002)
5-5-3: NOTICE TO ABATE:
The Village Clerk, pursuant to authorization by the Village Board, police, and/
or Police Committee Chairperson, may serve or cause to be served a notice in
writing upon the owner, agent, occupant or person in possession, charge or
control of any vehicle, which appears to be in violation of this chapter or
upon the owner, agent, occupant or person in possession, charge or control of
any lot, building or premises in or upon which any inoperable vehicle in
violation of this chapter is situated, requiring him to remove the same within
a specified reasonable time, not to exceed thirty (30) days. If not removed,
will be removed pursuant to subsection 5-5-5B of this chapter. (Ord. 02-2, 5-
14-2002; amd. 2018 Code)
5-5-4: ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE:
If the person so served and notified does not remove or cover properly the
motor vehicle within the specified reasonable time, the Village may proceed to
abate the nuisance in any manner allowable including:
   A.   Seeking to impose a monetary penalty as defined by subsection 5-5-5A of
this chapter for enforcement action.
   B.   Seeking to enjoin the continuation of the nuisance created by the
presence of the motor vehicle by the filing of a lawsuit in a court of
jurisdiction. (Ord. 02-2, 5-14-2002)
5-5-5: IMPOUNDMENT AND DISPOSITION OF VEHICLES:
   A.   Impoundment: The Village Board, Police Committee Chairperson, or any of
the Police Department designated by the Village Board, is hereby authorized to
remove or have removed any vehicle left at any place within the Village which
reasonably appears in violation, or which reasonably appears to be lost, stolen
or unclaimed, or which is an inoperable vehicle as defined in this chapter. The
vehicles which are removed will be at the owner's burden of cost. (Ord. 02-2,
5-14-2002)
   B.   Disposition: The procedure to be followed by the Village Board, Police
Committee Chairperson, and/or the Police Department for disposition in regard
to abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed vehicles will be in accordance with
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-202; provided, that no vehicle shall be
returned until all fees and costs incurred by the Village have been paid in
full. (Ord. 02-2, 5-14-2002; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 6
STORAGE TANKS
SECTION:
5-6-1: Underground Storage Tanks Prohibited
5-6-2: Aboveground Storage Tanks
5-6-1: UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS PROHIBITED:
Underground storage tanks used for the dispensing or storage of gasoline,
diesel fuel, and volatile oils are strictly forbidden in the Village corporate
limits. (Ord. 17-11, 12-5-2017)
5-6-2: ABOVEGROUND STORAGE TANKS:
   A.   Restrictions: As of January 1, 2018, an aboveground storage tank or
tanks (AST) used for the dispensing or storage of gasoline, diesel fuel, and
volatile oils and which does not have a current State of Illinois - Illinois
State Fire Marshal permit, will not be allowed in the Village corporate limits.
After January 1, 2018, no aboveground storage tanks used for dispensing or
storage of gasoline, diesel fuel, and volatile oils will be allowed in the
Village corporate limits.
   B.   Compliance With State Regulations: If there are any aboveground storage
tanks in the Village corporate limits, they must have a current State of
Illinois Fire Marshal permit and follow all State of Illinois - State of
Illinois Fire Marshal rules and regulations concerning aboveground storage
tanks. (Ord. 17-11, 12-5-2017)
TITLE 6
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-1-1: Department Established; Residency
6-1-2: Chain Of Command
6-1-3: Employees Of Department
6-1-4: Supervision Of Department
6-1-5: Duties Of Department Employees
6-1-6: Compensation
6-1-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED; RESIDENCY:
There is hereby established a Police Department for the Village which shall
consist of such employees as may be provided by the Board of Trustees.
Employees of the department shall not be required to be residents of the
Village. (Ord., 5-4-1996)
6-1-2: CHAIN OF COMMAND:
The chain of command is as follows: Chief of Police, Chairman of the Police
Committee, Village President and Board of Trustees. (Ord., 5-4-1996)
6-1-3: EMPLOYEES OF DEPARTMENT:
The employees of the department shall be employed by the Village President, by
and with the consent of the Board of Trustees. The Village President, by and
with the consent of the Board of Trustees, may designate one such employee of
the department as the Chief of Police. Employees of the department shall work
such hours each week as designated by the Chief of Police, but not to exceed
the maximum number of hours established by the Board of Trustees or Village
President, unless previously specifically authorized in writing by the Village
President. (Ord., 5-4-1996)
6-1-4: SUPERVISION OF DEPARTMENT:
Employees of the department shall be under the supervision and control of the
Village President, pursuant to authority granted herein; provided, that if a
Chief of Police is designated, the Chief shall be responsible for the
supervision of the other employees of the department. (Ord., 5-4-1996)
6-1-5: DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT EMPLOYEES:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the employees of the department to see to the
enforcement of all of the ordinances of the Village and all statutes applicable
therein, and to preserve order and prevent infractions of the law and arrest
violators thereof and to perform such other duties as the President and Board
of Trustees shall prescribe for the preservation of the peace and the
observance of the ordinances and laws.
   B.   It shall be the duty and obligation of employees of the department to
follow all rules and regulations set forth by the Chief, President and Board of
Trustees as shall be deemed advisable for the operation of the department.
   C.   It shall be the duty and obligation of every employee of the department
to conduct himself or herself in a proper and law abiding manner, at all times,
to obey the directions of his or her supervisor and to avoid the use of any
unnecessary force. (Ord., 5-4-1996)
6-1-6: COMPENSATION:
Employees of the department shall be paid such compensation as determined by
the President and Board of Trustees. (Ord., 5-4-1996)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
6-2-1: Livestock Prohibited
6-2-2: Cruelty To Animals
6-2-3: Noisy Animals
6-2-4: Diseased Domestic Animals
6-2-5: Dangerous, Vicious Animals
6-2-6: Impoundment And Redemption Provisions
6-2-1: LIVESTOCK PROHIBITED:
Livestock, defined as any hoofed animal, are not allowed in the Village
corporate limits. (2018 Code)
6-2-2: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully or maliciously torture, destroy
or kill or cruelly beat or injure, maim or mutilate any animal in subjugation
or captivity, whether wild or tame, and whether belonging to himself or to
another, or to deprive any such animal of necessary food, drink or shelter or
veterinary care to prevent suffering; to cause, procure or permit any such
animal to be so tortured, destroyed or killed, or cruelly beaten or injured,
maimed or mutilated, or deprived of necessary food, drink or shelter or
veterinary care to prevent suffering; or wilfully instigate, engage in or in
any way further any act of cruelty to any animal, or any act tending to produce
such cruelty. (2018 Code)
6-2-3: NOISY ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful to harbor or keep any animal which disturbs the peace by
loud noises at any time of the day or night. (1987 Code §
9-4-3)
6-2-4: DISEASED DOMESTIC ANIMALS:
A. No domestic animal afflicted with a contagious or infectious disease shall
be allowed to run at large, or to be exposed in any public place whereby the
health of man or beast may be affected; nor shall such diseased animal be
shipped or removed from the premises of the owner thereof, except under the
supervision of the County Health Officer or the State Veterinarian. No such
diseased animals shall be brought into the Village. (1987 Code §
9-4-4)
B. It is hereby made the duty of the Police Committee Chairperson to secure
such disposition of any diseased animal and such treatment of affected premises
as to prevent the communication and spread of the contagion or infection,
except in the cases where the State Veterinarian is empowered to act. (1987
Code §
9-4-4; amd. 2018 Code)
6-2-5: DANGEROUS, VICIOUS ANIMALS:
A. Running At Large: It shall be unlawful to permit any dangerous animal or
vicious animal of any kind to run at large within the Village. (1987 Code § 9-
4-7)
B. Permit For Exhibitions And Parades: Exhibitions or parades of animals which
are ferae naturae in the eyes of the law may be conducted only upon securing a
permit from the Police Committee Chairperson.
C. Authority To Kill: The members of the Village Board or the Police Committee
Chairperson is authorized to kill any dangerous animal of any kind when it is
necessary for the protection of any persons or property. (1987 Code § 9-4-7;
amd. 2018 Code)
D. Animals That Bite: Any animal which has bitten any person or so injured any
person as to have caused an abrasion of the skin, or is suffering from rabies,
shall be subject to the procedures applicable to dogs under article A of this
chapter. (1987 Code § 9-4-7)
6-2-6: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROVISIONS:
The Kankakee County animal control ordinance regulates the impoundment and
redemption of animals in the Village. (2018 Code)
ARTICLE A. DOGS
SECTION:
6-2A-1: Definition
6-2A-2: License Required; Tag
6-2A-3: Number Of Dogs; Kennels And Breeders Prohibited
6-2A-4: Dogs At Large; Impoundment
6-2A-5: Dogs That Bite; Rabies Control
6-2A-6: Removal Of Excrement Required
6-2A-7: Dogs In Heat
6-2A-8: Dangerous, Vicious Dogs
6-2A-9: Penalty; Court Order To Destroy Dog
6-2A-1: DEFINITION:
The word "dog", whenever used in this article, shall include a female as well
as a male dog. (1987 Code §
9-3-1)
6-2A-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; TAG:
   A.   License Required; County To Provide: No person shall own or keep a dog
unless he shall procure a license from the County therefor. All provisions of
the County animal control ordinance with respect to licenses are made a part
hereof and incorporated herein by this reference. (1987 Code §
9-3-2)
   B.   Collar And Tag: Every dog kept within the Village shall be provided by
its owner or kept with a collar made of leather, metal or substantial material
to which a license tag shall be fastened. (1987 Code §
9-3-3)
6-2A-3: NUMBER OF DOGS; KENNELS AND BREEDERS PROHIBITED:
No more than four (4) dogs can be kept in a residential residence. Over four
(4) animals is considered a breeder, which is not permitted within the Village
corporate limits. Running a kennel is not permitted within the Village
corporate limits. (Ord. 17-3, 1-3-2017)
6-2A-4: DOGS AT LARGE; IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   If the County Animal Control is called for a dog at large, and the
County Animal Control does not pick up the dog or animal, and if the animal's
owner is known, then the owner will be charged the fee that the County Animal
Control charges the Village, plus a Village administrative fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00). If the fee/penalty/fine has not been paid within fourteen
(14) days from the date of letter to the owner from the Village, then the fee/
penalty/fine will be doubled. For each consecutive fourteen (14) day period
following that the fee/penalty/fine is not paid, the fee/penalty/fine is
doubled.
   B.   In agreement with the County Animal Control, if a dog or animal has
been picked up by County Animal Control, the dog/animal will not be released to
the owner before all Village fees/penalties/fines have been paid in full to the
Village. The owner of the dog/animal must bring a receipt from the Village to
the County Animal Control which has the Village Clerk's signature thereon.
(Ord. 15-2, 11-3-2015)
   C.   It shall be the duty primarily of the Police Committee Chairperson or
in his absence any member of the Village Board to take up and impound any dog
found running at large in the Village contrary to this article. All dogs so
found running at large shall be delivered to the County Dog Pound, and all
provisions contained in the County animal control ordinance with respect to the
impounding of dogs, the redemption thereof, and the disposal of unclaimed
impounded dogs are made a part hereof and incorporated herein by this
reference. (1987 Code §
9-3-4; amd. 2018 Code)
6-2A-5: DOGS THAT BITE; RABIES CONTROL:
The Kankakee County animal control ordinance regulates biting dogs and rabies
in the Village. (2018 Code)
6-2A-6: REMOVAL OF EXCREMENT REQUIRED:
   A.   Owner's Premises: It shall be unlawful for any person to create a
nuisance whereby the animal excrement of any dog lies unattended and
uncollected by the owner or keeper of a dog housed in a pen or chained to a
stake within the Village, and any person who permits a violation of this
subsection shall be served by any Village Board member with an official notice
and shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each violation. (1987 Code § 9-3-11; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Public And Private Property:
      1.   No person shall appear with a dog upon the public ways or within
public places or upon the property of another, without that person's consent
and without some means for the removal of excrement; nor shall any person fail
to remove any excrement deposited by such dog.
      2.   It shall be the duty of each person who owns, possesses or controls
a dog to remove and dispose of any feces left by such person's dog on any
sidewalk, street, or other public area. It shall be the duty of each person who
owns, possesses or controls a dog to remove and dispose of any feces left by
such person's dog on any private property neither owned nor occupied by the
person.
      3.   For the purpose of this subsection B, the means of removal shall be
any tool, implement, bag, or other device for the purpose of picking up and
containing such feces. Disposal shall be accomplished by transporting the feces
to a place suitable for the disposal of dog feces.
      4.   Violation of this subsection B shall be punishable by a fine not
exceeding:
         a.   Ten dollars ($10.00) for the first offense.
         b.   Twenty five dollars ($25.00) for the second offense within a year
of the first offense.
         c.   Fifty dollars ($50.00) for the third and any subsequent offenses
within a year of the first offense.
      5.   This subsection B shall not apply to a licensed dog accompanying any
person with a disability who, because of such person's disability, is
physically unable to comply with the requirements of this subsection B. (2018
Code)
6-2A-7: DOGS IN HEAT:
Any person owning or controlling any female dog or any person at whose house or
premises, building, store or dwelling place any female dog is usually found or
permitted to remain, shall not permit or suffer it to run at large in any
public way or public place while it is in heat, whether it has a license or
muzzle on or not. Every female dog so found running at large is hereby deemed a
nuisance, and shall be taken up and impounded in the manner provided by this
article, but if such dog cannot be safely taken up and impounded, it may be
slain by any police officer. (1987 Code §
9-3-8; amd. 2018 Code)
6-2A-8: DANGEROUS, VICIOUS DOGS:
Any dangerous, fierce or vicious dogs running at large in the public ways or
public places in the Village or upon private premises of any person other than
the owner or keeper, and any dog which may in any manner disturb the quiet of
any person or neighborhood, or which shall bite a person or so injure a person
as to cause an abrasion of the skin, is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and
such dog shall be taken up and impounded in the manner provided by this
article. (1987 Code §
9-3-9)
6-2A-9: PENALTY; COURT ORDER TO DESTROY DOG:
   A.   If at the time and place set for trial in any court for any cause
referred to in this article, it shall appear that any dog has in any manner
disturbed the quiet of any person, or caused an abrasion of the skin, or
attempted to bite or snap at any person within the Village, the owner or keeper
shall be deemed to have violated this article and shall be subject to the
penalty provided for violation in section
6-2A-4 of this article. (1987 Code § 9-3-10)
   B.   The court may stay execution or issuance of a mittimus upon motion of
the Village Attorney and continue the cause for a further day, and order the
defendant to have the dog destroyed by the Kankakee Animal Control Officer
within the time for which the case is continued. Upon a satisfactory showing to
the court that the dog has been destroyed, the court may, in its discretion,
cause a nonsuit to be entered in said cause. (1987 Code § 9-3-10; amd. 2018
Code)
ARTICLE B. CHICKENS
SECTION:
6-2B-1: Purpose
6-2B-2: Permitted And Prohibited Chickens
6-2B-3: Noncommercial Use Only
6-2B-4: Maximum Number Of Hens
6-2B-5: Containment Of Feed
6-2B-6: Enclosures
6-2B-7: Chicken Runs
6-2B-8: Care Of Chickens
6-2B-9: Odor And Noise
6-2B-10: Predators, Rodents, Insects And Parasites
6-2B-11: Prohibited Acts
6-2B-12: Violations; Penalty
6-2B-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this article is to provide standards for the keeping of
domesticated chickens. It is intended to enable residents to keep a small
number of female chickens while creating standards and requirements that ensure
that domesticated chickens do not adversely impact the neighborhood surrounding
the property on which the chickens are kept. (Ord. 17-12, 12-5-2017)
6-2B-2: PERMITTED AND PROHIBITED CHICKENS:
   A.   Permitted Chickens: Within the Village limits, only female chickens
(hens) are allowed. There is no restriction on chicken species.
   B.   Roosters Prohibited: Roosters are not allowed within the Village
limits. (Ord. 17-12, 12-5-2017)
6-2B-3: NONCOMMERCIAL USE ONLY:
Chickens shall be kept for personal use only. (Ord. 17-12, 12-5-2017)
6-2B-4: MAXIMUM NUMBER OF HENS:
The maximum number of hens allowed within the Village limits is eight (8) total
per residence. (Ord. 17-12, 12-5-2017)
6-2B-5: CONTAINMENT OF FEED:
All food must be kept in airtight containers that are out of reach of wild
animals. (Ord. 17-12, 12-5-2017)
6-2B-6: ENCLOSURES:
Hens must be provided with an enclosure, such as a henhouse, chicken tractor,
or chicken coop, that houses them. Enclosures must be clean, dry, and odor
free. Enclosures shall be kept in a neat and sanitary condition at all times in
a manner that will not disturb the use or enjoyment of neighboring lots due to
noise, odor or other adverse impact. Coop size should be four (4) square feet
per bird with a maximum of thirty six (36) square feet. Enclosures are not
permitted in the front yard of any property. (Ord. 17-12, 12-5-2017)
6-2B-7: CHICKEN RUNS:
The hens must be provided with an outdoor fenced structure in which to run
around. The hens have to be in a fenced area at all times, unable to leave the
residents' property. The maximum size of the chicken run should be no more than
eighty (80) square feet. (Ord. 17-12, 12-5-2017)
6-2B-8: CARE OF CHICKENS:
Hens must be properly cared for. Chickens must be provided with the access to
feed and clean water at all times. The feed and water shall be unavailable to
rodents, wild birds, and predators. (Ord. 17-12, 12-5-2017)
6-2B-9: ODOR AND NOISE:
   A.   Odors from chickens, chicken manure, and other chicken related
substances shall not be perceptible at the property boundaries.
   B.   Perceptible noise from chickens shall not be loud enough at the
property boundaries to disturb persons of reasonable sensitivity. (Ord. 17-12,
12-5-2017)
6-2B-10: PREDATORS, RODENTS, INSECTS AND PARASITES:
The property/chicken owner shall take all necessary action to reduce the
attraction of predators and rodents. Infestation of insects and parasites that
may result in unhealthy conditions to human habitation will result in the
chicken facility being removed by the Village through the Kankakee County
Animal Control Officer, Village Animal Control Officer, or any other designee,
and the cost of the same shall be borne by the property/chicken owner. (Ord.
17-12, 12-5-2017)
6-2B-11: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Slaughtering: There will be no slaughtering of chickens within the
Village limits.
   B.   Bird Fights: Raising or keeping hens for fighting and the fighting of
hens and other fowl is not allowed within the Village. (Ord. 17-12, 12-5-2017)
6-2B-12: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
Each violation of this article shall be subject to a daily twenty five dollar
($25.00) fine. Each day a violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense. The Village shall retain the right to inspect any property to
determine whether a violation has been corrected. (Ord. 17-12, 12-5-2017)
ARTICLE C. COUNTY ANIMAL CONTROL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2C-1: County Regulations Adopted
6-2C-2: Amendments To Regulations
6-2C-1: COUNTY REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
Chapter 10, animals, and the fees in chapter 18 applicable to animals of the
Kankakee County animal control regulations are hereby adopted by reference as
if fully set out at length herein. Three (3) copies of said regulations are on
file in the Office of the Village Clerk for public use and inspection. (Ord.
17-3, 1-3-2017; amd. 2018 Code)
6-2C-2: AMENDMENTS TO REGULATIONS:
If there should be any changes or amendments to chapter 10 and the fees in
chapter 18 of the Kankakee County animal control regulations applicable to
animals after the effective date hereof, the changes or amendments will be
automatically adopted under this section. (Ord. 17-3, 1-3-2017; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL OFFENSES
ARTICLE A. OFFENSES RELATED TO PERSONS, HEALTH AND SAFETY
SECTION:
6-3A-1: Assault
6-3A-2: Battery
6-3A-3: Unlawful Conduct
6-3A-4: Disorderly Conduct
6-3A-5: Reckless Conduct
6-3A-6: Mob Action
6-3A-7: Throwing Missiles
6-3A-8: Weapons
6-3A-9: Resisting Or Interfering With Police
6-3A-10: Abusive Language; Obscene Gestures
6-3A-1: ASSAULT:
   A.   A person commits an assault when, without lawful authority, he
assaults, beats, wounds, strikes, imprisons or inflicts violence on another
where the circumstances show malice or assault with intent to commit any
misdemeanor or felony.
   B.   No person shall assault another with a lethal weapon, instrument or
thing with intent to commit upon the person of another any bodily injury where
no considerable provocation appears or where the circumstances of the assault
show malice.
   C.   If any person shall be guilty of an assault within the Village, such
person shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than four hundred
dollars ($400.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense
and be responsible for the Village costs of prosecution. Each day that a
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Restitution by the
violator shall also be made to any property damaged or destroyed or person
injured. (Ord., 4-8-1997)
6-3A-2: BATTERY:
   A.   A person commits battery if he intentionally or knowingly without legal
justification and by any means:
      1.   Causes bodily harm to an individual; or
      2.   Makes physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an
individual.
   B.   If any person shall be guilty of any battery within the Village, such
person shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined according to the provisions of
section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1987 Code §
9-1-2)
6-3A-3: UNLAWFUL CONDUCT:
   A.   A person commits unlawful conduct when that person disturbs, tends to
disturb or aids in disturbing the peace of others by violent, tumultuous,
offensive or obstreperous conduct, and no person shall knowingly permit such
conduct upon any premises owned or possessed by him or under his control.
(Ord., 4-8-1997)
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation violating this section shall be fined
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense and shall be responsible for the Village
costs of prosecution. Each day that a violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Restitution by the violator shall also be made to any
property damaged or destroyed or person injured. (Ord., 4-8-1997; amd. 2018
Code)
6-3A-4: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
   A.   Definition: Any of the following acts shall, when committed within the
Village, be considered as disorderly conduct:
      1.   Commits an act in a violent manner toward another whereby that other
is placed in danger of his life or health.
      2.   Commits an act in a violent manner toward another whereby the
property of any person is placed in danger of being destroyed or damaged.
      3.   Causes, provokes or engages in any fight, brawl or riotous act so as
to endanger the life, health or property of another.
      4.   Interferes with another's pursuit of a lawful occupation by acts of
violence.
      5.   Obstructs, either singly or together with other persons, the flow of
vehicular or pedestrian traffic and refuses to clear such public way when
ordered to do so by the Police Department or other lawful authority.
      6.   Resists or obstructs the performance of duties by the Police
Department or any other authorized Village official.
      7.   Incites, attempts to incite or is involved in attempting to incite
imminent lawless action including rioting, fighting and other unlawful
disturbances.
      8.   Uses abusive language or makes threats to any member of the Police
Department, any other authorized Village official who is engaged in the lawful
performance of his duties, or any other person when such words have a direct
tendency to cause acts of violence. Words merely causing displeasure, annoyance
or resentment are not prohibited.
      9.   Damages, befouls or disturbs public property or the property of
another so as to create a hazardous, unhealthy, or physically offensive
condition.
      10.   Makes or causes to be made any loud, boisterous and unreasonable
noise or disturbance to the annoyance of any other persons nearby, or near to
any public highway, road, street, lane, alley, park, square or common, whereby
the public peace is broken or disturbed, or the travelling public annoyed.
      11.   Fails to obey a lawful order to disperse by a police officer where
one or more persons are committing acts of disorderly conduct in the immediate
vicinity, and the public health and safety is threatened.
      12.   Assembles with one or more persons for the purpose of using force
or violence to disturb the peace.
      13.   Appears in any public place and is manifestly under the influence
of alcohol, narcotics or other drugs, not therapeutically administered, to the
degree that he may endanger himself or other persons or property, or alarm or
disturb other persons in his vicinity.
      14.   Transmits in any manner to any police officer, public officer or
public employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed,
knowing at the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for
believing that such an offense has been committed.
      15.   Uses paint or other medium in any way to deface, damage or destroy
property, structures, buildings, bridges, fences, streets, sidewalks, hydrants,
streetlights, or signs.
      16.   To be openly lewd or do any act of public indecency tending to
debauch the public morals.
      17.   To interrupt or disturb any lawful assembly or procession of people
met for a lawful purpose.
      18.   To injure, beat, torture or kill any animal or knowingly allow same
to be done to any animal under one's personal control, unless such is necessary
to protect the health or safety of oneself or another.
      19.   To make or cause to be made any annoying, obscene or disturbing
phone calls.
      20.   To transmit in any manner to the Fire Department of any city, town,
village or fire protection district a false alarm of fire, knowing at the time
of such transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such
fire exists.
      21.   To transmit in any manner to another a false alarm to the effect
that a bomb or other explosive of any nature is concealed in such place that
its explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such
transmission that there is no reasonable ground for believing that such bomb or
explosive is concealed in such place. (Ord., 4-8-1997)
   B.   Prohibited; Penalties: It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any
person to engage in any type of disorderly conduct within the Village as
defined herein. Any person violating this section shall be fined as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense and shall be responsible for the Village
costs of prosecution. Each day that a violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense. Restitution by the violator shall also be made regarding any
property damaged or destroyed or person injured. (Ord., 4-8-1997; amd. 2018
Code)
6-3A-5: RECKLESS CONDUCT:
A person who causes bodily harm to or endangers the bodily safety of an
individual by any means, commits reckless conduct if he performs recklessly the
acts which cause harm or endanger safety, whether they otherwise are lawful or
unlawful. If any person shall be guilty of reckless conduct within the Village,
such person shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined according to the
provisions of section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1987 Code §
9-1-4)
6-3A-6: MOB ACTION:
A person commits mob action when he or she engages in any of the following:
   A.   The knowing or reckless use of force or violence disturbing the public
peace by two (2) or more persons acting together and without authority of law;
   B.   The knowing assembly of two (2) or more persons with the intent to
commit or facilitate the commission of a misdemeanor; or
   C.   The knowing assembly of two (2) or more persons, without authority of
law, for the purpose of doing violence to the person or property of anyone
supposed to have been guilty of a violation of the law, or for the purpose of
exercising correctional powers or regulative powers over any person by
violence. (2018 Code)
6-3A-7: THROWING MISSILES:
No person shall throw, shoot or cast any stone or any other missile upon or at
any building or tree or other public or private property, or upon or at any
person in any street, avenue, alley, public place or enclosed or unenclosed
ground in the Village, or aid or abet in the same. (1987 Code §
9-1-7)
6-3A-8: WEAPONS:
   A.   Firearms:
      1.   Discharging Restricted: It shall be unlawful to discharge any
firearms or air gun in the Village. This subsection shall not be considered to
prohibit any officer of the law from discharging a firearm in the performance
of his duty or any citizen from discharging a firearm when lawfully defending
his person or property. A violator of this subsection shall be punishable by a
fine according to the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this Code.
      2.   Furnishing To Minors: It shall be unlawful for any person to loan or
furnish to any minor, not being the father, guardian or employer of such minor,
any gun, pistol or any other firearm. A violator of this subsection shall be
punishable by a fine according to the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord., 5-4-1996)
   B.   Bows And Arrows: No person shall purposefully or heedlessly shoot or
cause to be shot any arrow, projectile, or other missile from a bow from or
into any public place, or at any house, vehicle, property, person or animal. A
violator of this subsection shall be punishable by a fine according to the
provisions of section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord., 5-4-1996)
6-3A-9: RESISTING OR INTERFERING WITH POLICE:
No person shall resist any police officer in the discharge of his duty or fail
or refuse to obey any lawful command of any such officer or in any way
interfere with or hinder or prevent any officer from discharging his duty, or
in any manner assist or give aid to any person in the custody of a police
officer in attempting to escape from such custody, or rescue or attempt to
rescue any person when in such custody. If any person shall be guilty of
resisting or interfering within the Village, such person shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined according to the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord., 5-4-1996)
6-3A-10: ABUSIVE LANGUAGE; OBSCENE GESTURES:
Use of abusive language or threats to any member of the Police Department, any
other authorized Village official who is engaged in the lawful performance of
his duties, or any other person when such words have a direct tendency to cause
acts of violence is prohibited. Words merely causing displeasure, annoyance or
resentment are not prohibited. Use of abusive or obscene language or making of
an obscene gesture in public likely to incite immediate physical retaliation by
the hearer will be considered disorderly conduct. (Ord., 5-4-1996)
ARTICLE B. OFFENSES RELATED TO MORALS AND DECENCY
SECTION:
6-3B-1: Sex Offenses; Statute Provisions Adopted
6-3B-2: Loitering; Wandering
6-3B-3: Public Intoxication
6-3B-4: Narcotic Drugs
6-3B-1: SEX OFFENSES; STATUTE PROVISIONS ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of regulating and controlling sex
offenses within the Village, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11.01 et seq.
Said provisions of the Illinois Criminal Code, supplements, appendices and
amendments are adopted by reference. Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/1-3-2, the Village Clerk is directed to certify three (3) copies of the
hereinabove adopted provisions of the Illinois Criminal Code and maintain said
copies on file in the Office of the Village Clerk. (1987 Code §
9-1-6; amd. 2018 Code)
6-3B-2: LOITERING; WANDERING:
   A.   A person loitering or strolling in, about or upon any street, alley or
other public way or public place, or in any public gathering or assembly, or in
or around any store, shop or business or commercial establishment, or in the
private property or place without lawful business, or conducts himself in a
lewd, wanton or lascivious manner in speech or behavior, shall be guilty of
loitering.
   B.   Wandering the streets, alleys or other public ways or other places at
late or unusual hours in the night without any visible or lawful business and
not giving a satisfactory account of himself shall be guilty of being abroad at
unusual hours. (Ord., 4-8-1997)
   C.   Any person, firm or corporation violating this section shall be fined
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense and be responsible for the Village costs of
prosecution. Each day that a violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. Restitution by the violator shall also be made regarding any property
damaged or destroyed or person injured. (Ord., 4-8-1997; amd. 2018 Code)
6-3B-3: PUBLIC INTOXICATION:
Any person found in a state of intoxication in any street, avenue, alley,
highway or thoroughfare or other public place to the degree that he may
endanger himself or other persons or property, or alarm or disturb other
persons in his vicinity shall be guilty of public intoxication. (1987 Code §
9-1-3; amd. 2018 Code)
6-3B-4: NARCOTIC DRUGS:
   A.   Prohibition: Except as allowed by law, no person in the Village shall
sell, give away, use or possess for any purpose, whatever, any narcotic drug.
(Ord., 5-4-1996)
   B.   Seizures:
      1.   Narcotic Drugs: All narcotic drugs in the possession of any person
convicted of a violation of this section shall be seized by, confiscated by and
forfeited to the Police Committee Chairperson who shall make proper
distribution thereof.
      2.   Vehicle: Any vehicle from which seized drugs are removed, the
vehicle being owned by the person convicted of a violation of this section,
shall be seized by, confiscated by and forfeited to the Police Committee
Chairperson and subsequently sold at public auction to the highest bidder in
the manner provided by law. (Ord., 5-4-1996; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GANG ACTIVITY
SECTION:
6-4-1: Temporary Questioning Without Arrest
6-4-2: Search For Weapons
6-4-3: Defacing Property
6-4-4: Penalty
6-4-1: TEMPORARY QUESTIONING WITHOUT ARREST:
A police officer, after having identified himself as a police officer, may stop
any person in a public place for a reasonable period of time when the person is
wearing known gang colors, emblems or other gang insignia, or appears to be
engaged in communicating gang related messages through the use of hand signals
or other means of communication, or as otherwise provided by law, and the
officer reasonably infers from the circumstances that the person is committing,
is about to commit or has committed any offense set forth in this section. Once
stopped, the officer may demand the name and address of the person and an
explanation of his actions. Such detention and temporary questioning will be
conducted in the vicinity of where the person was stopped. (Ord., 5-4-1996)
6-4-2: SEARCH FOR WEAPONS:
When a police officer has stopped a person for temporary questioning pursuant
to section
6-4-1 of this chapter and the officer reasonably suspects that he or another
officer is in danger of attack, he may search the person(s) for weapons. If an
officer discovers a weapon, he may take it until the completion of the
questioning, at which time, he shall return the weapon, if lawfully possessed,
or arrest the person so questioned. (Ord., 5-4-1996)
6-4-3: DEFACING PROPERTY:
Uses of paint or other medium in any way to deface, damage or destroy property
will be determined disorderly conduct. (Ord., 5-4-1996; amd. 2018 Code)
6-4-4: PENALTY:
Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this chapter shall be
fined according to the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord., 5-4-1996)
CHAPTER 5
FIREWORKS AND EXPLOSIVES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Fireworks
6-5-2: Nitroglycerine And TNT Storage
6-5-3: Explosives Storage And Sale
6-5-1: FIREWORKS:
   A.   Public Fireworks Displays:
      1.   Permit Required: No public exhibition of fireworks or pyrotechnics
shall be given unless a permit therefor is first secured from the Village
Board. (1987 Code § 8-2-1-1)
      2.   Supervision: All such public displays shall be under the supervision
of a competent person, and shall be superintended by a member of the Village
Board. (1987 Code § 8-2-1-1; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Prohibitions:
      1.   Discharge Of Fireworks: It shall be unlawful to discharge or set off
any fireworks, or make or give any pyrotechnic display in the Village unless a
permit has been obtained as provided herein. (1987 Code § 8-2-1-2)
      2.   Sale Of Fireworks: No person shall sell or offer for sale, or keep
for the purpose of so doing, any fireworks. (1987 Code § 8-2-1-3)
      3.   Certain Fireworks Prohibited: No person shall discharge or set off
in the Village, or keep in the Village with the intention of doing so, any
firecrackers, toy cannons, canes for exploding potash, sulphur or other
dangerous explosive; so called Chinese bombs; torpedoes; paper balloons; or sky
rockets rated at one pound or over; provided, that the fireworks mentioned in
this subsection may be used in any licensed public pyrotechnic display under
proper supervision. (1987 Code § 8-2-1-4)
6-5-2: NITROGLYCERINE AND TNT STORAGE:
It shall be unlawful to keep or store any nitroglycerine or the explosive
commonly known as TNT in the Village in any quantities, excepting for medicinal
or laboratory purposes, and for such purposes no more than one pound shall be
stored in any one building or premises. (1987 Code §
8-2-2)
6-5-3: EXPLOSIVES STORAGE AND SALE:
All explosives must be kept, stored and sold in accordance with State law and
in accordance with the rules enforced by the State Fire Marshal with regard to
the same. (1987 Code § 8-2-3; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 6
MINORS
SECTION:
6-6-1: Curfew Regulations
6-6-1: CURFEW REGULATIONS:
   A.   Definitions: When used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    CURFEW HOURS: 1. Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and
six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on Saturday;
      2.   Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. on Sunday; and
      3.   Between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sunday to Thursday,
inclusive, and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the following day.
   EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit
to which the public is invited including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   GUARDIAN: 1. A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor; or
      2.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
   MINOR: Any person under seventeen (17) years of age.
   PARENT: A person who is:
      1.   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent of another person;
or
      2.   At least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized by a parent or
guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
   REMAIN: To:
      1.   Linger or stay; or
      2.   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police officer
or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   B.   Offenses:
      1.   A minor commits a curfew offense when he or she remains in any
public place or on the premises of any establishment during curfew hours.
      2.   A parent or guardian of a minor or other person in custody or
control of a minor commits a curfew offense when he or she knowingly permits
the minor to remain in any public place or on the premises of any establishment
during curfew hours.
   C.   Defenses: It is a defense to prosecution under subsection B of this
section that the minor was:
      1.   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian or other person in
custody or control of the minor;
      2.   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      3.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      4.   Engaged in an employment activity or going to or returning home from
an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      5.   Involved in an emergency;
      6.   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department or a Village Board member about the minor's presence;
      7.   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental
agency, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor, or going to or returning home from, without any
detour or stop, an official school, religious, or other recreational activity
supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental agency, a
civic organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor;
      8.   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      9.   Married or had been married or is an emancipated minor under the
Emancipation of Minors Act.
   D.   Enforcement: Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a
law enforcement officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for
being in the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an
arrest under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an
offense has occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances,
no defense in subsection C of this section is present.
   E.   Violation; Penalties: A violation of this section is a petty offense
with a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code; except, that neither a person who has been made a ward of
the court under the Juvenile Court Act of 1987, nor that person's legal
guardian, shall be subject to any fine. In addition to or instead of the fine
imposed by this subsection, the court may order a parent, legal guardian, or
other person convicted of a violation of subsection B of this section to
perform community service as determined by the court; except, that the legal
guardian of a person who has been made a ward of the court under the Juvenile
Court Act of 1987 may not be ordered to perform community service. The dates
and times established for the performance of community service by the parent,
legal guardian, or other person convicted of a violation of subsection B of
this section shall not conflict with the dates and times that the person is
employed in his or her regular occupation. (2018 Code)
CHAPTER 7
DISCRIMINATION IN HOUSING
SECTION:
6-7-1: Adoption Of Federal Regulations; Enforcement
6-7-2: Regulations Posted
6-7-3: Booklets And Forms Available
6-7-1: ADOPTION OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS; ENFORCEMENT:
The Village hereby adopts by reference the rules and regulations regarding fair
housing issued by the Department of Housing and Urban Development and shall
enforce fair housing standards that comply with and/or are in accordance with
the Fair Housing Rules and Regulations of the U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development. (2018 Code)
6-7-2: REGULATIONS POSTED:
The Village will cause to be posted, in the offices of the Village and at other
places in the Village Hall, notices and fair housing posters advising the
public of the fair housing standards to be enforced in the Village. (2018 Code)
6-7-3: BOOKLETS AND FORMS AVAILABLE:
Complaint forms and booklets will be made available to the public and will
remain on file in the Village office for the benefit of the public, and the
Village shall provide any member of the public complaining of discrimination in
housing sufficient complaint forms to complete the process of such complaints.
(2018 Code)
TITLE 7
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
VEHICLE CODE
SECTION:
7-1-1: Certain State Regulations Adopted
7-1-2: Form Of Citation Of Violations
7-1-1: CERTAIN STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
Pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/20-204, there are hereby adopted
by and for the Village the following portions of the Illinois Vehicle Code, 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes act 5, including any subsequent amendments to or
revisions of such portions. A copy of the Illinois Vehicle Code, as adopted
herein, shall be on file in the Office of the Village Clerk and there kept
available for public use, inspection and examination during named business
hours.
Description 625 ILCS 5/
Description                             625 ILCS 5/
Title and Definitions                   1-101 through 1-220
Secretary of State                      2-108
Certificates of Title and Registration  3-401, 3-402, 3-413, 3-414, 3-416, 3-
of Vehicle                              701, 3-702, 3-703
Abandoned, Lost, Stolen or Unclaimed    4-201, 4-202, 4-203, 4-205 through 4-
Vehicles                                213
                                        6-100, 6-101, 6-112, 6-113, 6-116, 6-
Illinois Driver's Licensing Law         210, 6-301, 6-301.1, 6-303 through 6-
                                        306.4
                                        11-100, 11-201, 11-202, 11-203, 11-204
                                        (a), 11-205, 11-206, 11-301 through 11-
Rules of the Road                       313, 11-402 through 11-413, 11-501.2,
                                        11-502, 11-503, 11-504, 11-505, 11-601,
                                        11-606, 11-608, 11-610, 11-611, 11-701
                                        through 11-711
 Turning and Starting and Signals on   11-801, 11-802 through 11-806
  Stopping and Turning
 Right-of-Way                          11-901, 11-901.01, 11-902 through 11-
                                        908
 Pedestrians' Rights and Duties        11-1001 through 11-1011
 Special Stops Required                11-1201 through 11-1205
 Stopping, Standing and Parking        11-1301 through 11-1305
 Miscellaneous Laws                    11-1401 through 11-1408, 11-1410
                                        through 11-1425
 Bicycles                              11-1501, 11-1502, 11-1503 through 11-
                                        1514
Equipment of Vehicles                   12-100
 Lights and Lamps                      12-201 through 12-216
 Brakes                                12-301 through 12-302
 Tires                                 12-401 through 12-405
 Glass, Windshields and Mirrors        12-501 through 12-503
 Miscellaneous Requirements            12-601 through 12-610
 Special Equipment for Second Division 12-701 through 12-710
  Vehicles
 
(Ord., 9-7-1996; amd. 2018 Code)
7-1-2: FORM OF CITATION OF VIOLATIONS:
In referring to a violation of any of the provisions of the Illinois Vehicle
Code as adopted in section
7-1-1 of this chapter, the violation shall be noted by inserting the capital
letter "M" and then listing the Illinois Vehicle Code chapter and section
number set forth in said section
7-1-1 of this chapter and any amendments thereto. (Ord., 9-7-1996)
CHAPTER 2
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
SECTION:
7-2-1: Speed Limits
7-2-2: Stop Signs
7-2-1: SPEED LIMITS:
The following are the posted speed limits within the Village limits:
   A.   Twenty miles per hour:
All east and west streets.
Elm Street from Kankakee Street to Ethel.
Willow to the south edge of the Village limits.
   B.   Thirty miles per hour:
Elm Street from the north Village limits to Kankakee Street.
Maple Street.
(Ord., 9-7-1996)
7-2-2: STOP SIGNS:
The following listing is the placement of all stop signs within the Village
limits:
Corner of Third and Elm.
Corner of Second and Willow.
Corner of Second and Elm.
Corner of First and Willow.
Corner of First and Elm.
Corner of Railroad and Willow - 3 way stop.
Corner of Railroad and Elm.
Corner of Kankakee and Willow.
Corner of Kankakee and Elm.
Corner of West Maple and Willow - 2-way stop.
Corner of West Maple and Elm.
Corner of Elm and Ethel - 3-way stop.
Corner of Pine and Elm.
Corner of Pine and Maple.
Corner of Chestnut and Elm.
Corner of Chestnut and Maple.
Corner of Walnut and Elm.
Corner of Walnut and Maple.
Corner of Oak and Elm.
Corner of Oak and Maple.
Corner of Ethel and Maple.
Corner of Floyd and Ethel. (Ord., 9-7-1996)
CHAPTER 3
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
SECTION:
7-3-1: Intent
7-3-2: Definition
7-3-3: Operation Restrictions
7-3-4: Penalty
7-3-1: INTENT:
It is the intent of the Board of Trustees to ensure the safety of residents and
their property. (Ord., 3-4-1995)
7-3-2: DEFINITION:
The following are considered recreational vehicles and shall apply to the
interpretation and enforcement of this chapter: all terrain vehicles (which
includes all wheels, 3 wheel, 4 wheel, and 6 wheel), motor scooters, minibikes,
go-carts, and snowmobiles. (Ord., 3-4-1995; amd. 2018 Code)
7-3-3: OPERATION RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful to operate a recreational vehicle within the Village
limits, except for the purpose of making their way out of the Village limits by
means of Willow Street or Maple Street. While in the Village limits, speed is
not to exceed fifteen (15) miles per hour. (Ord., 3-4-1995)
7-3-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be
fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord., 3-4-1995; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GOLF CARTS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Definitions
7-4-2: Registration And Permit Requirements
7-4-3: Insurance Required
7-4-4: Licensed Driver Required
7-4-5: Operation Regulations
7-4-6: Types Of Carts Allowed
7-4-7: State Regulations Adopted And Apply
7-4-8: Penalties
7-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
Any terms not otherwise defined in this chapter shall have the meanings as set
forth in the Illinois Vehicle Code 1 . (Ord. 10-1, 1-1-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/100 et seq.
7-4-2: REGISTRATION AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Registration And Permit Required: The Village shall require all golf
carts operated within the Village to be registered with the Village, display a
Village permit decal and a registration number on both sides of the golf cart
and one on the rear using three inch (3") reflective numbers.
   B.   Application For Permit; Fee: The application form will be maintained at
the Village Hall and a copy forwarded to the Village Police Committee
Chairperson. The yearly permit fee will be ten dollars ($10.00) per cart.
   C.   Affixing Decals And Numbers: Decals and numbers will be affixed by the
Village Police Committee Chairperson at the Village Hall or other predetermined
locations (i.e., residence, repair shop, etc.).
   D.   Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit: The Village shall maintain the
right to suspend or revoke the permit of any golf cart based on unsafe
operation or three (3) complaints during a six (6) month time period. All
complaints will be brought before the Village Board by the Police Committee
Chairperson. The Village Board, after reviewing the facts, may suspend or
revoke the permit. Suspensions will be in thirty (30) day increments. (Ord. 10-
1, 1-1-2010)
7-4-3: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
The Village shall require all registered golf carts to be insured and proof of
insurance to be carried at all times during operation (recreational vehicle
insurance). A copy of the insurance will be provided to the Village at the time
of registration. (Ord. 10-1, 1-1-2010)
7-4-4: LICENSED DRIVER REQUIRED:
Subject to the terms hereof, it shall be lawful for any person who is a
licensed driver to drive or operate a golf cart on all roadways within the
corporate limits of the Village, unless such roadway(s) is under the
jurisdiction of another unit of government which has not adopted legislation
allowing the operation of such golf carts. (Ord. 10-1, 1-1-2010; amd. 2018
Code)
7-4-5: OPERATION REGULATIONS:
   A.   Compliance With State Law; Headlights Required: The operation of a golf
cart on the roadways herein described, including operation of a golf cart after
sunset and before sunrise, shall be in compliance with the provisions of the
Illinois Rules of the Road and the Illinois Vehicle Code 1 . Headlights will be
required during all operation of the golf cart within the Village on any
roadway or alley. (Ord. 10-1, 1-1-2010)
   B.   Speed Limit: All golf carts registered within the Village will be
required to go no faster than fifteen (15) miles per hour. (Ord. 10-1, 1-1-
2010; amd. 2018 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.
7-4-6: TYPES OF CARTS ALLOWED:
All golf carts operated within the Village may be either/or electric or gas
operated. (Ord. 10-1, 1-1-2010)
7-4-7: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED AND APPLY:
   A.   All provisions set forth in the Illinois Vehicle Code 1  be and hereby
are adopted by reference and made a part of this chapter.
   B.   The provisions contained herein shall be in accordance with the terms
and provisions of the Illinois Rules of the Road and the Illinois Vehicle Code,
as may be amended from time to time. (Ord. 10-1, 1-1-2010)
 
Notes
1 2. 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.
7-4-8: PENALTIES:
Any person operating a golf cart in the Village in violation of this chapter
shall be subject to fines and penalties prescribed under the Illinois Vehicle
Code or Village ordinance. Village ordinance fine shall be as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code, with review by Village Board for possible suspension of the
permit. (Ord. 10-1, 1-1-2010; amd. 2018 Code)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Supervision And Enforcement
8-1-2: Construction Requirements
8-1-3: Maintenance Requirements
8-1-4: Use Of Public Ways
8-1-5: Excavations
8-1-6: Barricades
8-1-7: Deposits On Streets And Sidewalks
8-1-8: Utility Poles And Wires
8-1-9: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
8-1-10: Nuisances Declared
8-1-1: SUPERVISION AND ENFORCEMENT:
All public streets, alleys, sidewalks and other public ways in the Village
shall be under the supervision of the Committee on Streets and Alleys. It shall
have supervision over all work thereon, and shall have power to enforce all
ordinance provisions relating to such public places, and is hereby authorized
to enforce such ordinances. (1987 Code §
7-1-1)
8-1-2: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Requirements: It shall be unlawful to construct or lay any
pavement on any public street, sidewalk, alley or other public way, or to
repair the same, without first having secured a permit therefor. Applications
for such permits shall be made to the Clerk, and shall state the location of
the intended pavement or repair, the extent thereof, and the person who is to
do the actual construction work. No such permit shall be issued except on order
of the Committee on Streets and Alleys.
   B.   Bond Required: Each applicant shall file a bond in an amount to be
fixed by the Committee on Streets and Alleys, adequate to protect the Village,
with surety to be approved by said committee, conditioned to indemnify the
Village for any loss or damage resulting from the work undertaken or the manner
of doing the same.
   C.   Specifications: All street and sidewalk pavements shall be made in
conformity with the specifications laid down or approved from time to time by
the Board of Trustees. (1987 Code §
7-1-2)
8-1-3: MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Repair Required: All public street, alley and sidewalk pavements shall
be kept in good repair. Such repair work, whether done by the Village or by the
abutting owner, shall be under the supervision of the Committee on Streets and
Alleys.
   B.   Duty Of Village Personnel: It shall be the duty of every Village
officer or employee, becoming cognizant of any defect in any street, alley or
sidewalk, or any obstruction thereof, to report the same to the Chair of the
Streets and Alleys Committee of the Village Board or the Board of Trustees as
soon as possible. (1987 Code § 7-1-3)
8-1-4: USE OF PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Sale Of Goods; Advertising: It shall be unlawful for any person to use
any street, sidewalk or other public place as space for the display or sale of
goods or merchandise; or to write or mark any signs or advertisements on any
such pavements.
   B.   Fences:
      1.   Encroaching Into Public Ways Prohibited: No person shall make, or
cause to be made, any enclosure, fence, bridge, arched way or building of any
kind extending upon, over or across any street, avenue, alley or sidewalk
within the Village.
      2.   Barbed Wire, Electric Fences: It shall be unlawful to construct or
renew any fence composed in whole or in part of barbed wire, or with any
similar material designed to cause injury to persons, or any wire charged with
electric current, anywhere within three feet (3') of any public street,
sidewalk, alley, park or other public way or place.
   C.   Gasoline Pumps: It shall be unlawful to erect any gasoline pump or tank
in any public street, alley or sidewalk.
   D.   Playing Games: It shall be unlawful to play any games upon any street,
alley or sidewalk, where such games cause unnecessary noise, or interfere with
traffic or pedestrians.
   E.   Coasting: It shall be unlawful for any person to indulge in the sport
commonly called coasting in or upon any of the public streets, avenues, alleys
or sidewalks of the Village. (1987 Code § 7-1-4)
8-1-5: EXCAVATIONS:
It shall be unlawful to make any excavation in or tunnel under any public
street, alley, sidewalk or other public place in the Village without having
first secured a permit therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made to
the Village Clerk, and shall specify the intended location and purpose of the
excavation. No permit shall be issued until the applicant has given the Village
a bond with adequate surety, indemnifying the Village for all liability arising
out of said excavation or tunneling. (1987 Code § 7-1-5)
8-1-6: BARRICADES:
   A.   Repairing Pavement: Any person laying or repairing any pavement on a
street, sidewalk or other public place, or making any excavation in any such
place, shall maintain suitable barricades to prevent injury to any person or
vehicle by reason of the work. Such barricades shall be protected by a light at
nighttime.
   B.   Defects In Pavement: Any defects in any pavement shall be barricaded to
prevent any injury, and any person properly maintaining any opening or
excavation in any such place shall guard such opening or excavation while the
same remains open by proper barricades and lights.
   C.   Disturbing Barricades: It shall be unlawful to disturb or interfere
with any barricade or light lawfully placed to protect or mark any new pavement
or opening in any public street, alley or sidewalk. (1987 Code § 7-1-6)
8-1-7: DEPOSITS ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Deposits On Streets:
      1.   Generally: No person shall place or throw any stone or sticks, logs,
stumps, manure or other articles, rubbish or materials in, over or upon any
street, avenue, alley or highway of the Village so as to obstruct the travel,
endanger life or limb or cause the destruction of property; or throw or deposit
manure, ashes, dirt or rubbish of any kind in the gutters of the Village. (1987
Code §
9-1-8)
      2.   Injurious Materials: It shall be unlawful to deposit on any street
any material which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste
material, or any glass, or other articles which may do injury to any person,
animal or property.
   B.   Deposits On Sidewalks: It shall be unlawful to deposit on any sidewalk
any material which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste
material, or any glass or other articles which might cause injury to persons,
animals or property. (1987 Code § 7-1-7; amd. 2018 Code)
8-1-8: UTILITY POLES AND WIRES:
   A.   Poles To Be Authorized: No person shall set or cause to be set any
telephone, electric light or other poles upon any street or alley, unless
authorized to do so by the Committee on Streets and Alleys.
   B.   Construction And Maintenance Requirements: In all new additions or
subdivisions, all telephone and electric light or power lines shall be
constructed and maintained in alleys or underground conduits. All guy wires
shall be equipped with guards from the ground level to a distance of eight feet
(8') above the ground level.
   C.   Location:
      1.   Poles: All electric light and telephone poles now in any street of
the Village, or which shall hereafter be placed on any alley or street, shall
be located and placed within the curb lines on the sidewalk side thereof, which
are now or may hereafter be established; and poles shall be placed as near as
may be in a line in such streets.
      2.   Wires: All wires suspended from utility poles shall be at least
thirty feet (30') high above the level of the street grade, and said poles
shall be neatly smoothed and in a fit condition to be painted. All high tension
wires shall, so far as practicable, be kept upon opposite sides of the streets
from telephone wires. (1987 Code § 7-1-8; amd. 2018 Code)
8-1-9: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Obstructions Generally: It shall be unlawful for any person to cause,
create or maintain any obstruction of any street, alley, sidewalk or other
public way, except as may be specifically authorized by ordinance or by the
Committee on Streets and Alleys.
   B.   Encroachments: It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any building
or structure which encroaches upon any public street or property.
   C.   Injury To Pavements:
      1.   Generally: It shall be unlawful to injure any sidewalk, street or
alley pavements.
      2.   New Pavements: It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any
vehicle or animal upon, or injure any newly laid street or sidewalk pavement,
while the same is guarded by a warning sign or barricade, or to knowingly
injure any soft, newly laid pavement.
   D.   Removal Of Dirt And Gravel: It shall be unlawful for any private
purpose, for any person to dig, remove or carry away any earth, gravel or sod
from any street, avenue or alley, without first having secured the permission
of the Committee on Streets and Alleys.
   E.   Obstructing Drains: It shall be unlawful to obstruct any drains in any
public street or alley. (1987 Code § 7-1-9)
8-1-10: NUISANCES DECLARED:
All obstructions to streets, alleys, crossings and sidewalks of the Village and
all excavations in or under the same, which are by ordinance prohibited or
which may be made without lawful permission, are hereby declared to be
nuisances; and the persons erecting, keeping or maintaining any such
obstructions shall, in addition to any penalty specifically provided against
the same, be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1987 Code § 7-1-10; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 2
VILLAGE PARKS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Park Hours
8-2-2: Penalty
8-2-1: PARK HOURS:
The following are the closing times of the parks:
Sunday through Thursday: Ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M.
Friday and Saturday: Eleven thirty o'clock (11:30) P.M. (Ord., 7-13-1996)
8-2-2: PENALTY:
Any person who violates the hours set out in section
8-2-1 of this chapter and is found guilty, upon conviction, shall be fined
according to the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord., 7-13-1996)
CHAPTER 3
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-3-1: Waterworks System
8-3-2: Application For Water And Connection To System
8-3-3: Supplying Water To Or Sales Of Water To Others Prohibited
8-3-4: Water Rates And Charges
8-3-5: Use Of Water And Payment Of Bills
8-3-6: General Rules And Regulations For Customers And Plumbers
8-3-7: Penalty
8-3-1: WATERWORKS SYSTEM:
In order to provide for the distribution of water by the Village, there shall
continue to be a waterworks system of the Village to be known as the
"Buckingham waterworks system", and the President is hereby authorized to
appoint, subject to the confirmation of the Board of Trustees, a water operator
of the Buckingham waterworks system, and all other necessary employees. The
water operator shall be under the general supervision of the Village Board of
Trustees. (Ord. 12-8, 3-5-2012; amd. 2018 Code)
8-3-2: APPLICATION FOR WATER AND CONNECTION TO SYSTEM:
   A.   Application For Service; Deposit Required:
      1.   No water shall be turned on for use on or in any premises until an
application therefor in writing has been made for that purpose, and application
approved by the Village. As evidence of the applicant's intention to abide by
the provisions of the application and to purchase water at the established
rate, there shall be deposited with the application, in cash, or negotiable
check to the Village of Buckingham, the amount of sixty five dollars ($65.00),
which is nonrefundable and which shall be deposited by the Village and retained
as a guarantee of payment for water, as long as water usage by the customer
shall continue, or applied in payment of any delinquent account at any time, as
hereinafter provided.
      2.   Owners, tenants, or nonowners who are occupants of real estate to
which water is supplied will be required to deposit the sum of sixty five
dollars ($65.00) with the Village, which is nonrefundable. If the owner/
landlord keeps water in owner's/landlord's name, then there will be only one
(1) $65.00-turn on fee. If the name on the account changes, there will be a
sixty five dollar ($65.00) turn on fee whenever the name on the account
changes.
   B.   Unauthorized Turning On Of Water: No person, not duly authorized, shall
turn the water on at any fire hydrant or service cock, or use water therefrom,
when so turned on.
   C.   Plumbing To Comply With Village Regulations; Exception: No water shall
be turned on for service in premises to which plumbing does not comply with the
ordinances of the Village or the Illinois Plumbing Code, 77 Illinois
Administrative Code 890; provided, that water may be turned on for construction
work to unfinished buildings, subject to provisions of this chapter, by reason
of failure or breaking of any well main, branches, service pipe, apparatus or
appurtenances connected with said system or plant, or any part or portion of
said plant, or for any interruption of the supply by reason of the breakage of
machinery or by reason of stoppage, alteration, extension or renewals.
   D.   Responsibility Of Applicants And Owners:
      1.   All applicants for water service shall provide all service pipes and
appurtenances from the main to the premises to be served, at applicants' own
cost. Such installations shall be made under the direction of the Water
Department, and all service connections shall conform to the specifications of
the Board of Trustees and the Illinois Plumbing Code, 77 Illinois
Administrative Code 890, a copy of which shall be kept on file with the Village
Clerk and open to inspection for any interested person.
      2.   All repairs for service pipes and the plumbing system of buildings
to be served on the customer's premises shall be made by or at the expense of
the owner of the premises served. The Village may, in case of emergency, repair
any service pipe, and if this is done, the cost of such repair work shall be
repaid to the Village by the owner of the premises served. (Ord. 12-8, 3-5-
2012)
   E.   Cross Connection Control: Any new water service connection or repair of
the water service connection will be in accordance with the Village cross
connection ordinance. An approved backflow, prevention device, in accordance
with the cross connection ordinance, will be installed at the water customer's
own expense, which customer will install such approved device at a location and
in a manner in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code, Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency and all applicable local regulations and shall
have inspections and tests made of such approved devices upon installation.
(Ord. 12-8, 3-5-2012; amd. 2018 Code)
   F.   Nonmetered Service: A curb stop and access box for nonmetered service
shall be placed in every service pipe and shall be located between the curb
lines and the property line where practicable. Such boxes shall be located so
that they are easily accessible and shall be protected from frost.
   G.   Nonliability Of Village: All connections and water applied for
hereunder, and all the water used hereunder, shall be made upon the express
condition the Village shall not be liable, nor shall any claim be made against
it, for damages or injury caused. (Ord. 12-8, 3-5-2012)
8-3-3: SUPPLYING WATER TO OR SALES OF WATER TO OTHERS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Supplying Water: No owner or occupant of any premises to which the
utility furnishes water will be allowed to supply water to any other persons or
families, or to haul water from the water system. Any owner or occupant
violating this subsection will be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each person or family so furnished with water, and if
not paid, the water supply shall be cut off from said premises. No consumer
shall be permitted to conduct water pipes or hoses across lots or buildings to
adjoining premises. (Ord. 12-8, 3-5-2012; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Sales Of Water: No water shall be resold or distributed by the
recipient thereof from the Village supply to any premises or other person other
than that for which application has been made and facilities installed, except
in case of emergency. (Ord. 12-8, 3-5-2012)
8-3-4: WATER RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Water Taps: The fee due the Village for new water connections shall be
four hundred dollars ($400.00).
   B.   User Rates:
      1.   Residential Water And Garbage Service:
 
a. Inside Village limits: Monthly rates per residential water services $42.00
   connection with garbage
  Water                                                               26.00
  Garbage                                                             16.00
b. Outside Village limits:                                             44.00
  Water                                                               28.00
  Garbage                                                             16.00
 
      2.   Commercial Or Business Or Industrial Water Service Connection;
Garbage Service:
 
Monthly rates per commercial or industrial water service connection $44.00
 Water                                                             28.00
 Garbage                                                           16.00
 
      3.   Business And Residence In Same Building: When a business and
residence installation is used in the same building, they shall be charged as
two (2) separate installations. (Ord. 12-8, 3-5-2012)
8-3-5: USE OF WATER AND PAYMENT OF BILLS:
All water customers shall be supplied directly by the Village and shall pay for
the water at the current rates.
   A.   Monthly Payments; Liability: Rates or charges for water service shall
be payable monthly. The owner of the premises, occupant thereof and the user of
the service shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for the service to
such premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by the Village only
upon the condition that the owner of the premises, occupant and user of the
services are jointly and severally liable therefor to the Village.
   B.   Rendition Of Bills; Late Payment Fee: Bills for water service shall be
sent out by the Village Clerk each month and payable by the twentieth of the
month billed. A service charge of fifteen dollars ($15.00) per month shall be
added to all bills not paid by the due date.
   C.   Delinquent Payments; Lien Provisions: If the charges for such services
are not paid by the thirtieth day of the month succeeding the period for which
the service is billed, such charges shall be deemed delinquent. Delinquent
charges shall constitute liens upon the real estate to which the water services
were furnished. Whenever a bill for water service remains unpaid for sixty (60)
days after billing, the Village Clerk can file with the County Recorder of
Deeds a notice of such lien. This statement shall contain the legal description
of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice that the
Village claims a lien for this amount as well as for all charges subsequent to
the period covered by the bill. If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the
owner of the premises and the Village Clerk has notice of this, notice shall be
mailed to the owner of the premises if his address is known to the Clerk,
whenever such bill remains unpaid for the period of sixty (60) days after
billing. The failure of the Village Clerk to record such lien or to mail such
notice or the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect the
right to foreclose the lien for unpaid bills.
   D.   Discontinuance Of Service: In addition to the remedies set forth in
subsection C of this section, the Village, after giving notice to the owner,
occupant or user by certified mail or personal service or posting notice on the
premises and providing other procedural protections consistent with the
requirements of due process, may discontinue water service to any premises for
which the owner, occupant or user is delinquent in the payment of water service
charges. An administrative charge of ten percent (10%) of the past due
delinquent bill will be assessed for delinquent notice served by certified mail
or personal service or posting notice on the premises. Water service shall be
resumed upon payment of the delinquent charges in full, administrative charges,
plus payment of sixty five dollars ($65.00) to defray the expense of
reinstating water service if necessary and the actual cost to the Village to
disconnect and to reinstate water service if necessary.
   E.   Termination Of Service By User: Any user requesting a termination of
service shall give written notice to the Village ten (10) days prior to the
time such termination of service is desired. Responsibility for payment for
water service prior to the date of termination shall be jointly with the
property owners as well as the user.
   F.   Entry Powers For Examining And Testing System: The Village and its
employees shall have ready access to the premises, places or buildings where
water is supplied, for the purpose of examining and testing consumption, use
and flow of water, and it shall be unlawful for any person or corporation to
interfere with, prevent, or obstruct the Village or its employees in its or
their duties hereunder.
   G.   Metered Service May Be Required: The Village reserves the right to
meter any customer at any time it deems it necessary for the proper operation
of the system. (Ord. 12-8, 3-5-2012)
8-3-6: GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR CUSTOMERS AND PLUMBERS:
   A.   Obstructing System Prohibited:
      1.   No person shall in any manner obstruct the access to any stopcock,
hydrant or valve, or any public faucet or opening for taking water in any
street, alley, public ground or place connected with, or part of said water
system, nor pile or place lumber, brick, building materials, trash or other
articles or things whatsoever within twelve feet (12') of the same, as to in
any way or manner hinder, delay or obstruct the members of the Water Department
or Fire Department in reaching the same.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person in any manner to interfere with
or obstruct the flow, retention, storage or authorized use of water, or
contaminate the water, in said water system, reservoir or plant, or any part
thereof, or to injure, deface, or displace any water main, hydrant, service
pipe, water system or plant, or to cause, suffer or permit any of said things
to be done.
   B.   Damage To, Tampering With System: It shall be unlawful for any person
not authorized by the Village to tamper with, alter, or injure any part of the
Village waterworks or supply system.
   C.   Authority Of Village To Shut Off Service: The Village reserves the
right to shut off water at any time in the mains for the purpose of repairing,
cleaning, making connections with or extensions to same, or for concentrating
water in any part of the Village in case of fire, and for restricting the use
of water in case of deficiency in supply. No claim shall be made against the
Village by reason of the breaking of any service pipe or any service pipecock,
or damage arising from shutting off the water for repairing, laying or relaying
mains, hydrants or other connections or repairing any part of the water system,
or from the failure of the water supply, or by increasing the water pressure at
any time, or from concentration or restricted use of water as above.
   D.   Emergency Conservation Measures: The right is reserved to suspend the
use of lawn fountains and hoses for sprinkling lawns and gardens, whenever, in
the opinion of the Board of Trustees, public emergencies require it.
   E.   Violation Of Rules; Nonpayment Of Bills: For the violation of any of
the foregoing rules or for the nonpayment of water bills, the Village reserves
the right to turn off the water without notice and to forfeit any payments
made, and after an account of nonpayment of water bills or violation of the
rules, the same will not be turned on again until all delinquent bills and
penalties are paid, together with the expense of turning off and on such water,
and no water will be furnished to any person who is indebted to the Village on
account of water consumed, material or repairs. (Ord. 12-8, 3-5-2012)
8-3-7: PENALTY:
Any person or corporation who shall violate any of the rules and regulations
provided in this chapter shall, upon conviction, in addition to the enforcement
of the forfeitures and liabilities and attorney fees and liens therein
contained, pay a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each
day during, or on which, a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 12-8, 3-5-2012;
amd. 2018 Code)
ARTICLE A. CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
8-3A-1: Cross-Connections Prohibited
8-3A-2: Surveys And Investigations
8-3A-3: Backflow Prevention Devices
8-3A-4: Entry Powers For Inspections
8-3A-5: Violation Procedures
8-3A-6: Responsibility For Cleanup Costs
8-3A-7: Additional Regulations Adopted
8-3A-1: CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED:
No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be established or
maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a private, auxiliary
or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply of the
Village enters the supply or distribution system of the Village, unless such
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method of connection and
use of such supply shall have been approved by the Superintendent of Water and
the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. (Ord. 02-12, 12-23-2002, eff. 12-
23-2002)
8-3A-2: SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Water to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to the
public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be made a
matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two (2) years, or
as often as the Superintendent of Water shall deem necessary. Records of such
surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at least
five (5) years. (Ord. 02-12, 12-23-2002, eff. 12-23-2002)
8-3A-3: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
All plumbing installed within the Village shall be installed in accordance with
the Illinois Plumbing Code, 77 Illinois Administrative Code 890. If, in
accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code or in the judgment of the
Superintendent of Water, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the public water supply system, the Superintendent of Water
will give notice to the water customer to install such an approved device
immediately. The water customer shall, at his own expense, install such an
approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance with the Illinois
Plumbing Code and all applicable local regulations, and shall have inspections
and tests made of such approved devices upon installation and as required by
the Illinois Plumbing Code and local regulations. (Ord. 02-12, 12-23-2002, eff.
12-23-2002)
8-3A-4: ENTRY POWERS FOR INSPECTIONS:
The approved cross-connection control device inspector shall have the right to
enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public
water supply or distribution system of the Village for the purpose of verifying
the presence or absence of cross-connections, and the Water Superintendent or
his authorized agent shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time any
property served by a connection to the public water supply or distribution
system of the Village for the purpose of verifying information submitted by the
customer regarding the required cross-connection control inspection. On demand,
the owner, lessees or occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the
Superintendent of Water any information which he may request regarding the
piping system or systems or water use on such property. The refusal of such
information, when demanded, shall, with the discretion of the Superintendent of
Water, be deemed evidence of the presence of improper connections as provided
in this article. (Ord. 02-12, 12-23-2002, eff. 12-23-2002)
8-3A-5: VIOLATION PROCEDURES:
The Village Superintendent of Water is hereby advised and directed to
discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service
to any user wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this
article is known to exist, and to take such precautionary measures as he may
deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water
supply distribution mains. Water service to such property shall not be restored
until such conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the
provisions of this article, and until a reconnection fee of sixty five dollars
($65.00) is paid to the Village. Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can
be effected when the Superintendent of Water is assured that imminent danger of
harmful contamination of the public water supply system exists. Such action
shall be followed by written notification of the cause of disconnection.
Immediate disconnection without notice to any party can be effected to prevent
actual or anticipated contamination or pollution of the public water supply;
provided, that in the reasonable opinion of the Superintendent of Water or the
Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, such action is required to prevent
actual or potential contamination or pollution of the public water supply.
Neither the public water supply, the Superintendent of Water, or his agents or
assigns shall be liable to any customer for any injury, damages or lost
revenues which may result from termination of said customer's water supply in
accordance with the terms of this article, whether or not said termination was
with or without notice. (Ord. 02-12, 12-23-2002, eff. 12-23-2002)
8-3A-6: RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLEANUP COSTS:
The consumer responsible for backsiphoned material or contamination through
backflow if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs through an
illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained or repaired
device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of cleanup of
the potable water supply system. (Ord. 02-12, 12-23-2002, eff. 12-23-2002)
8-3A-7: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
There are hereby adopted by reference those regulations entitled "Suggested
Municipal/Private Water Company Regulations on Cross- Connection Control"
attached to ordinance 02-12. Copies of said regulations are on file in the
Office of the Village Clerk for public use and inspection. (2018 Code)
TITLE 9
BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL BUILDING REGULATIONS; ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
9-1-1: Code Enforcement Officer
9-1-2: Permit Requirements
9-1-3: Demolition Of Buildings
9-1-4: Fees
9-1-5: Variations
9-1-6: Stop Work Orders
9-1-7: Notice Of Violation; Failure To Comply
9-1-8: Penalties
9-1-1: CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
   A.   Office Created; Residency; Appointment: The office of code enforcement
officer is hereby created, who shall be a qualified individual or consulting
agency or firm and appointed by the Village President, with the consent of the
Board of Trustees. (1987 Code § 1-7D-1)
   B.   Duties:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the code enforcement officer to enforce all
ordinances and laws related to the construction, alteration, removal and
demolition of buildings and structures, together with electrical and plumbing
installations therein.
      2.   The code enforcement officer shall keep careful, systematic records
of the business and work of the office, including permit applications, survey
plats and building plot plans, all construction plans and specifications,
copies of permits and certificates issued, affidavits and certificates
received, a record of inspections, copies of notices and orders issued and
reports of tests made.
      3.   The code enforcement officer is hereby authorized to make
inspections to enforce the provisions of the Village building regulations and
for such purposes is hereby authorized to enter any building, structure or
premises.
      4.   The code enforcement officer shall retain plans and specifications
of houses and accessories, except survey plats and building plot plans for a
period of two (2) years. Parts of plans for other buildings which may be useful
for future periodic inspections shall also be retained.
   C.   Vacancy In Office: The Chair of the Planning and Zoning Committee of
the Board of Trustees will act as code enforcement officer during periods in
which the appointed building inspector is absent from the Village or during
periods when a vacancy in the office of building inspector exists.
   D.   Compensation: The compensation for the code enforcement officer shall
be as determined by the Village Board of Trustees. (1987 Code §§ 1-7D-2 - 1-7D-
4; amd. 2018 Code; Ord., 9-5-2023)
9-1-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: No new construction or building shall be permitted
within the Village limits, and no new additions to, improvements on or
replacements of existing buildings or structures shall be permitted within the
Village limits unless the person responsible for said construction or building,
or the owner of the property upon which the construction or building is to be
erected, added or replaced, or both, shall first obtain from the code
enforcement officer as appointed by the Village Board of Trustees a permit
authorizing the contemplated construction, addition or replacement.
   B.   Application For Permit: Any person desiring to so construct or build a
new building or structure or to add to, alter, improve or replace an existing
building within the Village limits shall first file with the code enforcement
officer or, in the event the position of code enforcement officer is vacant,
Chair of the Planning and Zoning Committee an application for permit, together
with such fees as are hereinafter prescribed, which application shall contain:
      1.   Detailed plans and specifications of the proposed construction,
addition, improvement, or replacement.
      2.   A sketch showing the location of the proposed construction,
addition, improvement or replacement upon the lot or lots on which the same is
to be made and, in particular, showing the distance of the proposed
construction from the lot lines involved.
      3.   The use or purposes for which the proposed construction is intended;
whether a residence, garage or business property; and if a residence,
specifying the number of families to be housed therein, or if a business
building, the type of business to be conducted therein.
      4.   The name and address of the owner of record of the lot or lots upon
which the proposed construction is to be placed and the consent of such owner
to such proposed construction, provided the application is submitted by any
person other than said owner.
      5.   The name and address of the person who is to perform the proposed
construction, together with an estimate of the reasonable costs of such
proposed construction.
   C.   Construction Requirements: Upon submission of any application for
permit to the code enforcement officer as hereinbefore provided, such permit
shall be granted in accordance with the terms of the application, provided the
application shows that the proposed construction will comply with the
following:
      1.   Floor Area: All new construction, including replacements of existing
structures for residential purposes, shall contain a minimum of seven hundred
fifty (750) square feet of floor space for a single-family dwelling and one
thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet for a multi-family dwelling,
breezeways, porches, garages and basements excluded.
      2.   Location:
         a.   Except as herein provided, no construction, addition, improvement
or replacement shall be located nearer than five feet (5') to the side lot
lines nor ten feet (10') to the front and back lot lines, provided construction
is contemplated on one lot, and further provided, that where the proposed
construction is to be located on more than one lot, the above setbacks shall
apply to the outer lot lines of the lots involved.
         b.   In the event the proposed construction is to be used as a garage,
said construction shall be not nearer than five feet (5') to the side lot lines
and ten feet (10') to the front lot line.
         c.   In the event the proposed construction is to be used for business
purposes and in the event the application shall contain a request for variation
in the above restrictions, the Board of Trustees may, in its discretion, allow
such variation, which shall be in compliance with subsection
10-3A-5 C of this Code.
      3.   Number Of Buildings Per Lot: No new building intended for
residential living shall be constructed on any lot upon which a building
intended for residential living is already located.
      4.   Animal Shelter: No construction intended for or used solely for the
maintenance, housing or care of animals and livestock, ordinary house pets
excepted, shall be permitted.
   D.   Each application for permit shall be approved or denied by the code
enforcement officer based on its satisfactory compliance with all adopted
building codes, Village ordinances, and State statutes. Appeals for denials
shall be heard by the Village Board of Trustees at their regularly scheduled
meeting and a final determination shall be made by the Village Board of
Trustees. (1987 Code §§ 4-1-1, 4-1-3, 4-1-5; amd. Ord., 6-1-1996; Ord. 17-7,
10-3-2017; 2018 Code; Ord., 9-5-2023)
9-1-3: DEMOLITION OF BUILDINGS:
   A.   Permit Required; Application: Any person desiring to demolish a
building or structure shall file first with the code enforcement officer or, in
the event the position of code enforcement officer is vacant, Chair of Planning
and Zoning Committee an application for permit which shall contain the
following:
      1.   A sketch showing the location of the proposed demolition. The sketch
will include locations of septic systems, cisterns, or buried fuel tanks.
      2.   The name and address of the owner of record of the lot or lots upon
which demolition is to take place and the consent of such owner to such
proposed demolition, provided the application is submitted by any person other
than the said owner.
      3.   The name and address of the person who is to perform the proposed
demolition.
   B.   Permit Fee And Bond And Insurance: A permit fee for demolition will be
fifty dollars ($50.00), plus a five thousand dollar ($5,000.00) surety bond and
evidence of liability insurance wherein the Village is a named insured in an
amount not less than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for personal
injury or property damage.
   C.   Term Of Permit; Extensions: The approved permit is good for sixty (60)
days from date of issue. A request for a second time limit of sixty (60) days
will cost two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and for any additional request
for the same property will be the same. Said permits shall expire sixty (60)
days from date of issuance unless otherwise provided in this Code. (Ord. 12-10,
3-5-2012; amd. 2018 Code; Ord., 9-5-2023)
9-1-4: FEES:
For the issuance of each building permit and for other miscellaneous subjects,
all fees shall be paid by the applicant to the Kankakee County Planning
Department. Unless specified elsewhere in the Village Code, all fees will be in
accordance with the fee schedule established by Kankakee County as amended
which is hereby incorporated into this chapter by reference.
   A.   Inspections:
      1.   All reinspection fees will be paid for by the property owner.
      2.   All open trenches for water and sewer must be inspected by the code
enforcement officer or designated plumbing inspector.
      3.   In new construction a backflow preventer device must be installed
and inspected according to the Illinois Plumbing Code.
      4.   Repaired water lines must be inspected by the code enforcement
officer or designated plumbing inspector.
   B.   Where work for which a permit is required under this chapter is started
or proceeded with prior to obtaining a permit, the fees herein set forth shall
be increased one hundred percent (100%). (Ord. 12-9, 3-5-2012; amd. 2018 Code;
Ord., 9-5-2023)
9-1-5: VARIATIONS:
It shall be unlawful to vary from the approved plans and specifications
deposited with and approved by the code enforcement officer unless amended
plans and specifications showing such proposed alteration and variation are
first filed with and approved by the code enforcement officer. If such
variation involves an increase in the total cost of the work, a statement to
that effect shall be made and the necessary additional fees shall be paid. The
variation procedure shall be in compliance with subsection
10-3A-5 C of this Code. (1987 Code § 4-1-8; amd. 2018 Code; Ord., 9-5-2023)
9-1-6: STOP WORK ORDERS:
The code enforcement officer may order work stopped whenever any construction,
alteration or repair work is being done in violation of this chapter. Such stop
order, when oral, shall be followed by a written stop order within twenty four
(24) hours. It shall be unlawful to continue with any work in violation of a
stop order until such order has been revoked by the person issuing it or by the
Village President or Board of Trustees. (1987 Code § 4-1-9; amd. Ord., 9-5-
2023)
9-1-7: NOTICE OF VIOLATION; FAILURE TO COMPLY:
If at any time after the effective date hereof, the Village Clerk shall find
that any person is engaged in construction without having first obtained a
permit, or any person who, holding a permit, is in violation of said permit in
any particular, it shall be the duty of the code enforcement officer to notify
such violator by posting a notice of violation on the property in a conspicuous
and accessible location. Said notice shall state the nature of the violation
and shall further state that unless there is compliance with the terms of this
chapter within thirty (30) days from the receipt of such notice, the violator
shall be subject to the fines and penalties hereinafter prescribed. If, upon
the expiration of such thirty (30) days, the code enforcement officer shall
find continued failure to comply, he shall revoke the permit in the case of
violation thereof and assess the fines and penalties hereinafter prescribed.
(1987 Code § 4-1-10; amd. Ord., 9-5-2023)
9-1-8: PENALTIES:
Any person who shall engage in construction of any type in violation of this
chapter shall be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code, and in addition, each day or part thereof that the
violation shall continue after proper notice of such violation shall be
considered a separate and distinct violation hereof. However, nothing herein
contained shall be deemed to restrict any right of the Board of Trustees to
take whatever other action shall be considered necessary to secure compliance
with the terms of this chapter. (1987 Code § 4-1-11; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING CODES AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Codes And Regulations Adopted
9-2-1: CODES AND REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
There are hereby adopted by the Village the following Building Codes and
building regulations of the 2015 International Codes, the Illinois State
Plumbing Code and NFPA Code. The provisions of such International Codes,
Illinois State Plumbing, and NFPA Code for building and building regulations
shall govern all matters covered therein to the extent that the same are not in
conflict with nor amended by any provision of this Code or other ordinances of
the Village. (Ord. 17-1, 1-3-2017)
2015 International Building Code.
2015 International Residential Code.
2015 International Fire Code.
2015 International Mechanical Code.
2015 International Property Maintenance Code.
2015 International Fuel Gas Code.
Illinois State Plumbing Code.
National Electrical Code.
Kankakee County, Illinois, Building and Building Regulations and Planning
Codes, and any future changes or amendments. (Ord. 17-1, 1-3-2017; amd. 2018
Code)
ARTICLE A. PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
9-2A-1: Code Adopted
9-2A-2: Amendments To Code
9-2A-1: CODE ADOPTED:
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the Office of the
Village Clerk, being marked and designated as the International Property
Maintenance Code, 2015 edition, as published by the International Code Council,
be and is hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the Village, for
regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property,
buildings, and structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities
and facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure
that structures are safe, sanitary, and fit for occupation and use; and the
condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and
the demolition of such existing structures as herein provided; providing for
the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of
the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions, and terms of said Property
Maintenance Code on file in the office of the Village are hereby referred to,
adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this chapter, with the
additions, insertions, deletions, and changes, if any, prescribed in section
9-2A-2 of this article. (Ord. 17-2, 1-3-2017)
9-2A-2: AMENDMENTS TO CODE:
The following sections of the Code adopted in section
9-2A-1 of this article are hereby revised:
Section 101.1. Insert: Village of Buckingham.
Section 102.3. Application of other codes. Delete: "International Existing
Building Code" and replace with "International Building Code, International
Fuel Gas Code, International Mechanical Code, Illinois State Plumbing Code and
the National Electrical Code". Delete: "International Zoning Code" and replace
with "Buckingham Village Code".
Section 103.5. Fees. Insert: The fees for activities and services performed by
the Village of Buckingham and its departments in carrying out its
responsibilities under this code shall be as established by the governing body,
or as otherwise provided herein.
Section 201.3. Terms defined in other code. Delete: International Zoning Code,
International Plumbing Code, International Existing Building Code and ICC
Electrical Code, and Insert: Buckingham Village Code, Illinois State Plumbing
Code and National Electrical Code.
Section 302.4. Weeds. Insert: eight inches (8").
Section 304.14. Insect screens. Insert: April 1st to December 1st.
Chapter 5 Plumbing Facilities and Fixture Requirements. Delete: All references
to the International Plumbing Code and Insert: Illinois State Plumbing Code.
Chapter 6 Mechanical and Electrical Requirements. Delete: All reference to the
International Plumbing Code and ICC Electrical Code, and Insert: Illinois State
Plumbing Code and National Electrical Code.
Section 602.3. Heat supply. Insert: October 1st to May 15th.
Section 602.4. Heat supply. Insert: October 1st to May 15th.
(Ord. 17-2, 1-3-2017)
CHAPTER 3
DWELLING LICENSING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Licensing Requirements
9-3-2: Inspections
9-3-3: Fire, Life, Health, And Safety Code Violations
9-3-4: Limit On Occupancy
9-3-5: Designation Of Manager/Agent
9-3-6: Tenant's Responsibilities
9-3-7: Minor Violations
9-3-8: Appeals
9-3-9: Penalty
9-3-1: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License Required: No person, corporation or other entity shall rent,
lease or allow a person other than the legal owner to occupy any dwelling unit
within the Village, unless the Village has issued a current unrevoked operating
license in the name of the legal owner of record for that premises. (Ord. 12-
12, 3-12-2012)
   B.   Initial License: An initial operating license shall be issued upon the
inspection of the premises and the determination by the Village that the
premises is in compliance with the applicable Property Maintenance, Fire and
Life Safety Codes, as amended. Upon the issuance of an initial license, every
licensed premises shall require an annual inspection, unless revoked sooner or
as provided pursuant to the applicable sections of this chapter. (Ord. 12-12,
3-12-2012; amd. 2018 Code)
   C.   Application For License:
      1.   All applications for operating licenses shall be submitted on forms
provided by the Village along with a fee as hereinafter provided. In the event
that the legal owner of the premises designates a manager or agent other than
the legal owner to be responsible for the maintenance or leasing of said
premises, the name, address and phone number of the designated manager and/or
agent shall also be included upon the application and the application shall
also be verified by the manager/agent. The owner shall remain legally
responsible for the premises.
      2.   All applications for operating license shall include the name and
address of the tenants who are or will be residing in said dwelling unit and
the total number of persons residing in said unit. If the property has not been
leased at the time of the inspection, the license holder shall supply the names
of the tenants within thirty (30) days of the commencement date of the lease.
It is the duty of the license holder to supply the identity of the tenant
within thirty (30) days after a change of occupancy. A change of occupancy is
defined as the elimination of occupancy by one tenant and the initiation of
occupancy of the dwelling unit by a different tenant.
   D.   Lease Provisions: All applicants for operating licenses under this
chapter shall include in all written leases a provision which requires the
tenants to permit the inspection of the premises which is the subject matter of
the lease, said inspection to be conducted by a representative of the Village.
Said provision shall refer to section 104.4 IPMC. (Ord. 12-12, 3-12-2012)
   E.   Issuance Of License: If, upon reinspection, the Village determines that
the dwelling unit in connection with which the notice was issued for suspension
or revocation has come into compliance with all applicable codes, statutes,
rules and regulations, the Village shall issue an annual license. (Ord. 12-12,
3-12-2012; amd. 2018 Code)
   F.   Renewal Of License: No operating license may be renewed unless an
application therefor has been made prior to the expiration of the existing
operating license. In the event that a license is sought after the expiration
date of a current license, the applicant for the license shall pay an
additional fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for said license. Upon payment
of the fee and the property being determined to be in compliance with all
applicable rules, regulations and ordinances of the Village and the Statutes of
the State of Illinois, a license will thereupon be issued.
   G.   Nonassignability, Nontransferability Of License:
      1.   Any license issued pursuant to this chapter is nonassignable by the
holder thereof. Upon transfer of ownership of any premises subject to this
chapter, the new owner shall make application for a new rental license and be
subject to the terms of this chapter. A sale on contract is a "transfer" with
the meaning of this subsection.
      2.   No operating license shall be transferable to another person or
entity or another dwelling unit. Each person holding an unrevoked operating
license shall give notice, in writing, to the Village within ten (10) working
days after having transferred or otherwise disposing of the legal control of
any licensed dwelling unit. Such notice shall include the name and address or
persons succeeding to the ownership or control of such dwelling unit.
   H.   Revocation Of License; Effect:
      1.   An operating license which has been previously issued shall be
revoked if, following an inspection pursuant to this chapter, any dwelling unit
within a rental building fails to meet all applicable requirements of all codes
of the Village and Statutes of the State of Illinois. Upon the inspection
determining that said property fails to meet said codes, a "notice of
revocation" shall be issued. A copy of the notice of revocation shall be issued
to all tenants living within the property which is the subject matter of the
revocation. Upon notice of revocation, all tenants may be required to vacate
the premises which is the subject of the revoked license. A legal owner of
record may appeal the notice of revocation in accordance to the provisions set
forth in section
9-3-8 of this chapter.
      2.   If a license is revoked, the property or any individual dwelling
unit failing to comply with all applicable codes shall immediately be vacated
and may not be occupied again until all code violations have been repaired and
completed. Reinstatement of the revoked license will be authorized once all
violations are in compliance. In the event of a revocation of the license, said
property shall remain unoccupied for a period of thirty (30) days from the date
of the notice of revocation or upon issuance of a temporary license or proof of
compliance with applicable codes, whichever is less. (Ord. 12-12, 3-12-2012)
9-3-2: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Initial Inspection; Failure To Pass: Upon receipt of a fully completed
application, the Village shall schedule and conduct an inspection of the
premises for which a license is sought. A license shall be sought for each
dwelling building; however, all dwelling units within a building shall be
inspected simultaneously. The Village shall refuse to issue an initial
operating license for a building if any dwelling unit is found, after the
initial inspection, not to meet all applicable requirements of all codes of the
Village and Statutes of the State of Illinois. In the event that a property,
upon inspection fails to pass said codes, the Village and the owner shall
schedule a reinspection. In the event that any building fails to meet the codes
on the second inspection, the Village shall conduct additional inspections as
necessary to assure compliance with applicable codes. However, the third
inspection after application shall require the payment of a one hundred dollar
($100.00) fee for the purposes of paying for said inspection. Each additional
inspection shall require payment of three hundred dollars ($300.00) for each
such inspection. All payments shall be required prior to the inspections
occurring. The above fees shall be increased one year from the effective date
hereof from one hundred dollars ($100.00) to one hundred fifty dollars
($150.00) and from three hundred dollars ($300.00) to four hundred dollars
($400.00), respectively. (Ord. 12-12, 3-12-2012)
   B.   Annual Inspection: After the issuance of the initial license, all
rental properties to which this chapter is applicable shall be inspected on an
annual basis from the date of the issuance of the initial license. Failure of
the premises to pass the annual inspection for Fire, Life, Health and Safety
Code violation(s) as defined in section
9-3-3 of this chapter shall require said premises to be subject to and payment
for annual inspections. (Ord. 12-12, 3-12-2012; amd. 2018 Code)
   C.   Inspection Fees: The following fees must be paid by the owner of the
property subject to this chapter as follows:
      1.   Initial Inspection:
         a.   For a single-family rental: Sixty dollars ($60.00).
         b.   For a multi-unit rental building: Sixty dollars ($60.00) for the
first unit and ten dollars ($10.00) for each additional unit in the building.
The above fees shall be increased each year for a two (2) year period after the
effective date hereof from sixty dollars ($60.00) to sixty five dollars
($65.00) and seventy dollars ($70.00) and ten dollars ($10.00) to eleven
dollars ($11.00) and twelve dollars ($12.00), respectively. (Ord. 12-12, 3-12-
2012)
      2.   Failure To Pass Inspection: If twenty five percent (25%) of the
units in any premises subjected to this chapter fails to pass an annual
inspection for Fire, Life, Health and Safety Code violation(s) as herein
defined, that premises shall be subjected to annual inspections thereafter and
the fees that go with said inspection. If none of the Fire, Life, Health and
Safety Code violation(s) remains at the next inspection, the premises shall
then revert to the annual inspection required in this chapter. (Ord. 12-12, 3-
12-2012; amd. 2018 Code)
      3.   Transfer Of Ownership Inspection: Upon transfer of ownership, a new
inspection shall be required with the same fees as set forth in this subsection
C.
   D.   Schedule Of Inspections: Sixty (60) days prior to the expiration of an
operating license, the Village shall send a "Notice of Renewal Inspection" to
the owner or designated manager/agent setting forth the requirement of the
owner or manager/agent to schedule an inspection. The property shall thereupon
be inspected for verification that the property continues to meet all
applicable codes, statutes and regulations adopted by the Village and the State
of Illinois. Renewal licenses shall be issued upon a determination by the
inspector that the building and all dwelling units within said building meet
all applicable codes, statutes and regulations adopted by the Village and the
State of Illinois. Inspection or reinspection procedures and costs for renewals
of operating licenses shall be the same as for the initial operating licenses.
   E.   Alternate Dates For Inspections: Owners and designated managers/agents
shall be allowed to reschedule an inspection on one occasion within the thirty
(30) day inspection period. Refusal to make the building or any dwelling unit
within said building available for inspection on the designated date or on the
one rescheduled date shall be grounds for revocation of the rental license.
   F.   Complaint Inspections: Inspection shall also take place within five (5)
days upon the receipt by the Village of a report of a suspected violation of
the codes of the Village. An inspection shall also take place in the event that
a complaint is made by either the tenant or by an occupant of the rental
building or by any law enforcement agency or government official. The license
holder shall be provided with a written summary of the complaint and with the
results of the inspection upon its completion. Follow up inspections shall also
occur with reasonable notice to the license holder to determine whether
deficiencies found in previous inspections have not been corrected. Complaint
inspections shall not be based upon anonymous complaints. (Ord. 12-12, 3-12-
2012)
   G.   Landlord's Consent For Inspection: All inspections for operating
licenses pursuant to this chapter shall be presumed that the landlord has given
consent for the inspections of the property described in the license. In the
event that a tenant refuses to consent to the inspection of the rental dwelling
unit, while the tenant has possession thereof, the Village is expressly
empowered to obtain an administrative warrant for the purposes of conducting
said inspections. Any required inspection pursuant to this chapter shall be
presumed to establish probable cause for the issuance of said warrant. In the
event that such a warrant is sought, the notice shall be given to the license
holder and the tenant regarding the issuance of the warrant. Delivery of a copy
of the actual warrant shall be sufficient notice to comply with this
subsection. (Ord. 12-12, 3-12-2012; amd. 2018 Code)
   H.   Time For Inspections: All inspections herein shall be conducted between
nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and three thirty o'clock (3:30) P.M. on Monday through
Friday, except in emergency situations in which the life, health and/or safety
of any individual is threatened. Upon agreement by the applicant and the
Village, inspections may occur at other hours as the parties may agree.
   I.   Notice Of Inspections: Notice shall be given to the owner or designated
manager/agent and tenant of a licensed dwelling unit at least five (5) days in
advance of any scheduled inspection, except in those situations in which there
is a reasonable suspicion to believe that conditions exist which present a
threat to the health or safety of the occupants therein; or a complaint lodged
by the occupants of the dwelling unit; or a request made by a prospective
tenant accompanied by the written consent of the owner or designated manager/
agent. (Ord. 12-12, 3-12-2012)
9-3-3: FIRE, LIFE, HEALTH, AND SAFETY CODE VIOLATIONS:
The following violations shall subject premises, owner and manager to
requirements for an annual inspection:
Violation of section 305 - Interior Structure; the International Property
Maintenance Code (hereafter known as IPMC).
Violation of section 304 - Exterior Structure; IPMC.
Violation of section 702 - Means of Egress (locked door); IPMC.
Violation of section 307 - Hand Rails and Guard Rails; IPMC.
Violation of section 605 - Electrical Equipment and Receptacles; IPMC.
Violation of section 604 - Extension Cords and Electrical Boxes; IPMC.
Violation of section 704 - Smoke and CO-2 Detectors; IPMC.
Violation of section 501 - Water Heater, Vents, Drains and Gas Supply; IPMC.
Violation of section 601 - Furnace, Exhaust Venting; IPMC.
(Ord. 12-12, 3-12-2012)
9-3-4: LIMIT ON OCCUPANCY:
No operating license shall be issued or renewed unless the applicant verifies
on the application for operating license that he has limited or will limit the
number of occupants so as not to exceed the minimum area requirements of this
chapter pursuant to section 404.5 IPMC. (Ord. 12-12, 3-12-2012)
9-3-5: DESIGNATION OF MANAGER/AGENT:
No operating license shall be issued or renewed if the property owner is not a
resident of the County of Kankakee, unless the legal owner of record
designates, in writing to the Village, the name of a Village or County of
Kankakee resident, eighteen (18) years or older, as their designated manager/
agent for the receipt of service of "notice of violation" pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter and for service of process pursuant to this chapter.
Service of notice or process pursuant to this chapter shall be upon either the
legal owner of record or the designated manager/agent. (Ord. 12-12, 3-12-2012)
9-3-6: TENANT'S RESPONSIBILITIES:
It shall be the tenant's responsibilities under this chapter as follows:
   A.   The tenant shall:
      1.   Comply with all obligations imposed upon the tenant by provisions of
the codes, statutes, rules and regulations applicable to the dwelling unit.
      2.   Maintain the dwelling unit and the premises of said dwelling unit
occupied by said tenant in as safe a condition as the condition of the premises
permits.
      3.   Keep all plumbing fixtures in the dwelling unit as their condition
permits.
      4.   Dispose from the tenant's dwelling unit all solid waste, rubbish and
other waste in a clean and safe manner and assure that the property upon which
the dwelling unit is located is kept free from solid waste, rubbish and other
waste.
      5.   Use in a reasonable manner all electrical, plumbing, sanitary,
heating, ventilating, air conditioning and other facilities, fixtures and
appliances.
      6.   Not deliberately or negligently destroy, deface, damage, impair or
remove any part of the premises or knowingly permit any other person to do so.
      7.   Conduct himself and require other persons invited by him on the
premises or present with his consent, to conduct themselves in a manner that
will not disturb that tenant's neighbor's peaceful enjoyment of the premises.
   B.   This section in no way relieves the owner or manager of licensed
premises from liability for their responsibilities and duties. (Ord. 12-12, 3-
12-2012)
9-3-7: MINOR VIOLATIONS:
Whenever, upon inspection of a rental building, the Village determines that
conditions or practices exist which are in violation of any provision of this
chapter, or any applicable code, statutes, rules or regulations adopted
pursuant hereto, a notice of such violation shall be served upon the owner or
designated manager/agent in the manner provided herein. A temporary license may
be issued by the Village; provided, that the violations do not present a
condition of immediate danger or hazard to the life, safety or health of the
tenants or occupants of the dwelling unit; and that the owner or the operator
has submitted a written plan to the Village to assure complete compliance
within a sixty (60) day period. An additional sixty (60) day period may be
allowed solely due to weather conditions. A building is in complete compliance
when it complies with all applicable rules, regulations and ordinances of the
Village and Statutes of the State of Illinois. A temporary license shall expire
on the first day following the date of plan completion as agreed upon by the
owner and/or designated manager/agent and the Village in accordance with the
written compliance plan. (Ord. 12-12, 3-12-2012)
9-3-8: APPEALS:
Appeals of orders, decisions or determinations of authorized Village staff
relative to the application and interpretation of the International Property
Maintenance Code, and its revisions within this chapter, shall be made in
accordance with the appeal provisions of section 111 of the International
Property Maintenance Code. (Ord. 12-12, 3-12-2012)
9-3-9: PENALTY:
Violations of this chapter shall subject the violator to a fine as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code for each day the violation occurs. (Ord. 2-12, 3-12-2012;
amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 4
FENCES
SECTION:
9-4-1: Application For Permit; Fee
9-4-2: Fencing Materials
9-4-3: Construction Requirements
9-4-4: Location
9-4-5: Variances
9-4-1: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEE:
No fence shall be erected without first submission of an application for
construction along with a fee as provided in subsection 9-1-4C of this title.
(Ord., 6-3-1995; amd. 2018 Code)
9-4-2: FENCING MATERIALS:
   A.   Size For Residential Fences: No fencing construction material to be
erected on lots used primarily for or adjacent to residential purposes shall
exceed the following sizes:
      1.   Front yard: Four feet (4').
      2.   Side yard: Six feet (6') from front corner of the house to the rear
lot line.
      3.   Rear yard: Six feet (6'). (Ord., 5-18-1996)
   B.   Types Of Materials: All fences shall be constructed of materials which:
1) do not create a safety hazard, 2) are capable of being maintained, and 3)
are commonly used for construction of residential fences. Snow fencing, barbed
wire, electrical wire, and similar materials are expressly prohibited. (Ord.,
7-3-1990)
9-4-3: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
Fences shall be constructed two inches (2") off the ground and shall follow the
contour existing on the lot. Finished sides of constructed fences shall face
the outside of the lot. (Ord., 7-3-1990)
9-4-4: LOCATION:
All fences shall be constructed no less than eighteen inches (18") within the
lot line to allow necessary maintenance on and around the fence. Fences may be
erected on the actual lot line provided a written agreement to allow such
placement is entered into by all the owners of the adjoining lots. Said
adjoining land owners shall also be allowed to connect fences on adjoining lots
if said written agreement so allows. No fence shall be erected which obstructs
vision in a manner that creates a safety hazard for pedestrian or vehicular
movement. (Ord., 7-3-1990)
9-4-5: VARIANCES:
Any request for variances from the regulations contained herein shall, after
petition, be heard by the Zoning Board of Appeals, and said Zoning Board of
Appeals shall make a finding as to whether or not a variance from the said
regulations shall be granted, and said recommendation shall be approved or
rejected by the Village Board of Trustees according to the variance procedure
established in the Village zoning ordinance. (Ord., 7-3-1990)
CHAPTER 5
PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS, HOT TUBS AND SPAS
SECTION:
9-5-1: Definition
9-5-2: Permit Required
9-5-3: Application For Permit; Fee
9-5-4: Construction Requirements
9-5-1: DEFINITION:
For the purpose of this chapter:
PRIVATE SWIMMING POOL (INGROUND/ONGROUND, HOT TUB, SPA): Any structure that
contains water over twenty four inches (24") (610 mm) in depth and which is
used, or intended to be used, for swimming or recreational bathing and which is
available only to the family and guests of the householder. (Ord., 6-1-1996;
amd. 2018 Code)
9-5-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No swimming pool, hot tub, or spa that contains water over twenty four inches
(24") will be permitted within the Village limits unless the person responsible
for installation of said swimming pool, spa or hot tub, or the owner of the
property where the installation is to occur, shall first obtain from the
building inspector, a permit authorizing the installation. (Ord., 6-1-1996)
9-5-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEE:
Any person desiring to install a swimming pool containing water over twenty
four inches (24") within the Village limits shall first file with the Village
Clerk, Building Inspector or Chair of the Planning and Zoning Committee an
application for permit, together with such fees as detailed in section
9-1-4 of this title, which application shall contain:
   A.   A sketch showing the location of the proposed installation of the pool,
hot tub or spa, and in particular, showing the distance of the proposed
installation from the lot lines involved.
   B.   The name and address of the owner of record of the lot or lots upon
which the proposed pool installation is to be placed and the consent of such
owner to such proposed installation, provided the application is submitted by
any person other than the owner. (Ord., 6-1-1996)
9-5-4: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   BOCA National Building Code: Chapter 4, section 421.
   B.   Outdoor Private Swimming Pool Barriers: An outdoor private swimming
pool, including an inground, aboveground, onground pool, hot tub or spa shall
be provided with a barrier which shall comply with the following:
      1.   The top of the barrier shall be at least forty eight inches (48")
(1219 mm) above finished ground level measured on the side of the barrier which
faces away from the swimming pool. The maximum vertical clearance between
finished ground level and the barrier shall be two inches (2") (51 mm) measured
on the side of the barrier which faces away from the swimming pool. Where the
top of the pool structure is above the finished ground level, such as an
aboveground pool, the barrier shall be at finished ground level, such as the
pool structure, or shall be mounted on top of the pool structure. Where the
barrier is mounted on top of the pool structure, the maximum vertical clearance
between the top of the pool structure and the bottom of the barrier shall be
four inches (4") (102 mm).
      2.   Openings in the barrier shall not allow passage of a four inch (4")
(102 mm) diameter sphere.
      3.   Solid barriers shall not contain indentations or protrusions except
for normal construction tolerances and tolled masonry joints.
      4.   Where the barrier is composed of horizontal and vertical members and
the distance between the tops of the horizontal members is less than forty five
inches (45") (1143 mm), the horizontal members shall be located on the swimming
pool side of the fence. Spacing between vertical members shall not exceed one
and three-fourths inches (13/4") (44 mm) in width. Decorative cutouts shall not
exceed one and three-fourths inches (13/4") (44 mm) in width.
      5.   Where the barrier is composed of horizontal and vertical members and
the distance between the tops of the horizontal members is forty five inches
(45") (1143 mm) or more, spacing between vertical members shall not exceed four
inches (4") (102 mm). Decorative cutouts shall not exceed one and three-
fourths inches (13/4") (44 mm) in width.
      6.   Maximum mesh size for chainlink fences shall be a one and one-
fourth inch (11/4") (32 mm) square unless the fence is provided with slats
fastened at the top or the bottom which reduce the openings to not more than
one and three-fourths inches (13/4") (44 mm).
      7.   Where the barrier is composed of diagonal members, such as a lattice
fence, the maximum opening formed by the diagonal members shall be not more
than one and three-fourths inches (13/4") (44 mm).
      8.   Access gates shall comply with the requirements of subsections B2
through B7 of this section, and shall be equipped to accommodate a locking
device. Pedestrian access gates shall open outwards away from the pool and
shall be self-closing and have a self-latching device. Gates other than
pedestrian access gates shall have a self-latching device. Where the release
mechanism of the self-latching device is located less than fifty four inches
(54") (1372 mm) from the bottom of the gate: a) the release mechanism shall be
located on the pool side of the gate at least three inches (3") (76 mm) below
the top of the gate; and b) the gate and barrier shall not have an opening
greater than two inches (2") (13 mm) within eighteen inches (18") (457 mm) of
the release mechanism.
      9.   Where a wall of a dwelling serves as part of the barrier, one of the
following shall apply:
         a.   All doors with direct access to the pool through that wall shall
be equipped with an alarm which produces an audible warning when the door and
its screen, if present, are opened. The alarm shall sound continuously for a
minimum of thirty (30) seconds immediately after the door is opened. The alarm
shall have a minimum sound pressure rating of eighty five (85) dBA at ten feet
(10') (3048 mm), and the sound of the alarm shall be distinctive from other
household sounds such as smoke alarms, telephones and doorbells. The alarm
shall automatically reset under all conditions. The alarm shall be equipped
with a manual means, such as touchpads or switches, to deactivate temporarily
the alarm for a single opening from either direction. Such deactivation shall
last for not more than fifteen (15) seconds. The deactivation touchpads or
switches shall be located at least fifty four inches (54") (1372 mm) above the
threshold of the door.
         b.   The pool shall be equipped with an approved power safety cover.
      10.   Where an aboveground pool structure is used as a barrier or where
the barrier is mounted on top of the pool structure, and the means of access is
a fixed or removable ladder or steps, the ladder or steps shall be surrounded
by a barrier which meets the requirements of subsections B1 through B9 of this
section. A removable ladder shall not constitute an acceptable alternative to
enclosure requirements.
   C.   Indoor Private Swimming Pools:
      1.   Walls: All walls surrounding an indoor private swimming pool shall
comply with subsection B9 of this section.
      2.   Barrier Locations: Barriers shall be located so as to prohibit
permanent structures, equipment or similar objects from being used to climb the
barriers.
   D.   Diving Boards: Minimum water depths and distances for diving hoppers
for pools, based on board height above the water, shall comply with figure
421.11 of this section for private pools. The maximum slope permitted between
point D, and the transition point shall not exceed one unit vertical to three
(3) units horizontal (D3) in private pools. D1 is the point directly under the
end of the diving board. D2 is the point at which the floor begins to slope
upwards to the transition point.
FIGURE 421.11
MINIMUM WATER DEPTHS AND DISTANCES BASED ON BOARD HEIGHT FOR PUBLIC AND PRIVATE
POOLS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/449899c2f336013970d53279ab0d73e6357c3f96/
IMAGES/0-0-0-860.gif]
   E.   Exemptions: The following shall be exempt from the provisions of this
section:
      1.   A spa or hot tub with an approved safety cover.
      2.   Fixtures which are drained after each use. (Ord., 6-1-1996)
CHAPTER 6
SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
SECTION:
9-6-1: Compliance With Provisions
9-6-2: Billboards
9-6-3: Suspended Signs
9-6-4: Construction Requirements
9-6-5: Indecent Advertising Prohibited
9-6-6: Violation; Penalty
9-6-1: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any advertising sign
or billboard within the corporate limits of the Village, except pursuant to the
conditions and provisions herein set forth. (1987 Code §
4-4-1)
9-6-2: BILLBOARDS:
   A.   License Fee: An annual license fee of five cents ($0.05) per square
foot shall be paid by the person owning or controlling any billboard in the
Village for each and every square foot of the surface thereof. (1987 Code §
4-4-2)
   B.   Billboards On Private Property: All billboards constructed or
maintained on private property within the Village limits shall be erected or
maintained with the lower edge or surface thereof at a distance of at least
three feet (3') above the surface of the ground, shall be solidly built and
substantially braced, and shall be placed at a distance back from the edge of
the street or alley or other public property on which they front, amounting to
one and one-half (11/2) times the height of the structure from the ground where
board is located. (1987 Code §
4-4-3)
   C.   Billboards On Public Property Prohibited: No billboard shall be erected
or maintained upon or over any property of the Village. (1987 Code §
4-4-4)
9-6-3: SUSPENDED SIGNS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain any advertising sign
or other structure upon Village streets or rights-of-way, except such signs
suspended from buildings as shall have been approved by the building inspector
and the Committee on Streets and Alleys and which do not impair or interfere
with the visibility of operators of vehicles upon public streets and
thoroughfares. (1987 Code §
4-4-5)
9-6-4: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Fireproof Signs: All signs or billboards erected or maintained within
the fire limits of the Village shall be constructed of fireproof material
throughout, and no other than fireproof electric signs shall be constructed or
maintained projecting over any of the sidewalks within the business section of
the Village.
   B.   Wind Pressure Construction: Every billboard shall be firmly and solidly
constructed so as to be able to bear a wind pressure of at least thirty (30)
pounds per square foot of area; provided, that billboards which are placed upon
roofs must be so constructed as to be able to withstand a lateral wind pressure
of forty (40) pounds per square foot of area.
   C.   Obstructing Fire Escapes: It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any
billboard in such position as to obstruct any fire escape or any window or door
leading thereto, and no billboard shall be fastened to any fire escape. (1987
Code §
4-4-6)
9-6-5: INDECENT ADVERTISING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to exhibit or advertise anything of an
immoral or licentious nature or in an immoral manner on any sign or billboard
within the Village. (1987 Code §
4-4-7)
9-6-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Violation: Any person who erects or maintains a billboard or sign in
the Village in violation of any of the requirements of this chapter shall,
after five (5) days from notice to remove same, be liable to the penalty
provisions of this section. (1987 Code §
4-4-8)
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be
fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1987
Code § 4-4-9; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 7
DANGEROUS, VACANT BUILDINGS
SECTION:
9-7-1: Definitions
9-7-2: Determination Of Vacant Building
9-7-3: Appeal Of Determination
9-7-4: Registration Of Vacant Building
9-7-5: Vacant Building Plan
9-7-6: Other Enforcement
9-7-7: Certification For Occupancy Of Vacant Building
9-7-8: Boarding Of Buildings
9-7-9: Enforcement And Penalties
9-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise expressly stated or clearly indicated by the context, the
following terms shall, for the purpose of this chapter, have the meanings
indicated in this section:
BOARDED BUILDING: A building which has had, in a manner intended to be
temporary or permanent, any or all openings and windows or doors which were
present for the purpose of light, ventilation or egress, some material, whether
opaque, solid or transparent, affixed to such openings, from the interior or
exterior of the building, for the purpose if securing or preventing access or
damage to the building or its components.
BUILDING: Any structure occupied or intended for supporting or sheltering any
occupancy.
CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: The Code Enforcement Officer or his or her designee.
DANGEROUS BUILDING: Any building or structure which has any of the following
defects or is in any of the conditions hereinafter described, and any
conditions hereinafter described shall be deemed unsafe:
   A.   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by wind, flood, fire,
water or in any other manner so that the structural strength or stability
thereof is appreciably less than it was before the damage.
   B.   Whenever any portion or member or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail or to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property.
   C.   Whenever any portion thereof has settled to such an extent that walls
or other structural portions have materially less resistance to winds than is
required in the case of new construction.
   D.   Whenever any building or structure or any part thereof, because of
dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction, or because of the
removal or movement of some portion of the ground necessary for the purpose of
supporting such building or portion thereof, or for other reasons, is likely to
partially or completely collapse, or some portion of the foundation or
underpinning is likely to fall or give way.
   E.   Whenever, for any reason whatsoever, the building or structure or any
portion thereof is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is used.
   F.   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire, wind,
or flood, or has become so dilapidated as to become an attractive nuisance to
children who might play in or about the building structure to their danger.
   G.   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire, wind or
flood, or has become so dilapidated as to afford a harbor for trespassers, or
as to enable persons to resort thereto for the purpose of committing a nuisance
or unlawful acts.
   H.   Whenever a building or structure is infested with rodents, insects,
pests or other vermin, and is therefore likely to cause sickness or disease.
   I.   Whenever any building shall become vacant, dilapidated or open at any
door or window, leaving the interior of the building exposed to the elements or
accessible to entrance by trespassers.
OWNER: Any person, agent, operator, firm or corporation having legal or
equitable interest in the property; or recorded in the official records of the
State, County or Municipality as holding title to the property; or otherwise
having legal control of the property, including the guardian of the estate of
any such person, and the executor or administrator of the estate of such person
if ordered to take possession of real property by any court of competent
jurisdiction.
PERSON: Includes a corporation, partnership, trust or any other entity as well
as an individual.
PREMISES: A lot, plot or parcel of land including any structure thereon.
PUBLIC NUISANCE: Includes the following:
   A.   The physical conditions, or uses of any building regarded as a public
nuisance at common law, under the Illinois Compiled Statutes or under this
Code; or
   B.   Any physical condition, use or occupancy or any building or its
appurtenances considered an attractive nuisance to children, including, but not
limited to, abandoned wells, shafts, basements, excavations, and unsafe fences
or structures; or
   C.   Any building which has unsanitary or nonfunctioning sewerage or
plumbing facilities; or
   D.   Any building designated by the Code Enforcement Officer as unsafe for
human habitation or use; or
   E.   Any building which is manifestly capable of being a fire hazard, or
manifestly unsafe or insecure as to endanger life, limb or property; or
   F.   Any building which is unsanitary, or which is littered with rubbish or
solid waste, or which has an uncontrolled growth of weeds; or
   G.   Any building that is dangerous, in a state of dilapidation,
deterioration or decay; faulty construction; open or vacant and the doors,
windows, or other openings are boarded up or secured, by any means other than
conventional methods used in the design of the building or permitted for new
construction of similar type; damaged by fire to the extent as not to provide
shelter; in danger of collapse or failure and dangerous to anyone on or near
the premises; or
   H.   Any building defined as a dangerous, unsafe building by this chapter,
as it may be amended.
UNOCCUPIED BUILDING: A building or portion thereof which lacks the habitual
presence of human beings who have a legal right to be on the premises,
including buildings ordered vacated by the Code Enforcement Officer pursuant to
authority granted to him/her by this Code. In determining whether a building is
"unoccupied", the Code Enforcement Officer shall find one or more of the
following factors, among others:
   A.   A building at which substantially all lawful residential or business
activity has ceased.
   B.   The percentage of the overall square footage of occupied to unoccupied
space or the overall number of occupied and unoccupied units shall be
considered.
   C.   The building is substantially devoid of contents. The condition and
value of fixtures or personal property in the building are relevant to this
determination.
   D.   The building lacks utility services, i.e., water, sewer, electric or
natural gas.
   E.   The building is the subject of a foreclosure action.
   F.   The building is not actively for sale as part of a contractual
agreement to sell the building. The building lacks "for sale", "for rent" or
similar signage.
   G.   The presence or recurrence of uncorrected Code violations.
VACANT BUILDING: A building or portion of a building which is:
   A.   Unoccupied and unsecured; or
   B.   Unoccupied and secured by boarding or other similar means; or
   C.   Unoccupied and a dangerous structure; or
   D.   Unoccupied and condemned by the Code Enforcement Officer pursuant to
applicable provisions of this Code; or
   E.   Unoccupied and has multiple Code violations; or
   F.   Unoccupied and the building or its premises has been the site of
unlawful activity within the previous six (6) months; or
   G.   Condemned by the Code Enforcement Officer and unlawfully occupied; or
   H.   Unoccupied for over one hundred eighty (180) days and during which time
the Code Enforcement Officer has issued an order to correct public nuisance
conditions and same have not been corrected in a Code compliant manner; or
   I.   Unoccupied for over two (2) years.
But not including unoccupied buildings which are undergoing construction,
renovation, or rehabilitation and which are in compliance with all ordinances,
codes, legislation, and regulations, and for which construction, renovation or
rehabilitation is proceeding diligently to completion. (Ord. 16-1, 7-25-2016)
9-7-2: DETERMINATION OF VACANT BUILDING:
   A.   Within one hundred twenty (120) days after the effective date hereof,
the Code Enforcement Officer shall evaluate all buildings in the Village he/she
believes to be unoccupied on said effective date and make a determination for
each as to whether the building is a "vacant building" within the meaning of
this chapter. The Code Enforcement Officer may determine that a building which
meets any of the criteria set forth herein is not to be regulated under this
chapter for a stated period, if, upon consideration of reliable, substantiated
and sufficient evidence, he/she determines that regulation of the building
under this chapter would not serve the public health, welfare, and safety and
makes written findings in support of his decision. The determination shall be
in writing and shall state the factual basis for the determination.
   B.   For buildings the Code Enforcement Officer determines to be "vacant
buildings", he/she shall, within fourteen (14) days of making that
determination, send notice of his written determination with the factual
findings to the last taxpayer of record listed on the most recent County tax
roll. Said notice of determination shall be sent by both certified mail, return
receipt requested and first class United States mail, with proper postage
prepaid. Failure of delivery shall not excuse a person from complying with this
chapter. The Code Enforcement Officer may personally serve or cause personal
service of the notice of determination. Any person making such service shall
execute an affidavit attesting to the facts of service. The Code Enforcement
Officer shall maintain an affidavit of such mailing for each notice of
determination sent.
   C.   The notice shall require the owner to arrange a mutually convenient
time within fourteen (14) days of the notice to arrange a Code compliance
inspection of the interior of the vacant building to determine the extent of
compliance with Village property, Building Codes and Health, Fire, Water and
Sewer Codes. In the event that the owner shall fail to arrange an appointment,
the Code Enforcement Officer shall send a notice establishing a date and time
for said inspection. The owner shall pay the two hundred dollar ($200.00)
inspection fee to the Village within thirty (30) days of the inspection. An
unpaid fee shall be a lien upon the premises.
   D.   The notice shall contain a copy of this chapter, a copy of the
registration form the owner is required to file pursuant to this chapter, and a
notice of the owner's right to appeal the Code Enforcement Officer's
determination. (Ord. 16-1, 7-25-2016)
9-7-3: APPEAL OF DETERMINATION:
   A.   An owner of a building determined by the Code Enforcement Officer to be
a vacant building as provided in this chapter may appeal that determination to
the Village Attorney or his/her designee. Such appeal shall be in writing and
shall be filed with the Village Attorney within fifteen (15) days of the date
of mailing of the notice of determination. The filing of an appeal stays the
owner's obligation to register his building as required by this chapter. The
appeal shall contain a complete statement of the reasons the owner disputes the
Code Enforcement Officer's determination, shall set forth specific facts in
support thereof, and shall include all evidence the owner relies upon to
support the appeal. The Village Attorney shall decide the appeal on the basis
of facts presented by the owner in his/her written appeal and the Code
Enforcement Officer's written determination.
   B.   The burden is upon the owner to present sufficient evidence to persuade
the Village Attorney that had the evidence been known to the Code Enforcement
Officer at the time the Code Enforcement Officer made the determination, the
Code Enforcement Officer would more likely than not have determined that the
subject building was not a "vacant building" within the meaning of this
chapter. (Ord. 16-1, 7-25-2016)
   C.   The Village Attorney shall send written notice of the Village Board's
decision to the owner within ten (10) days of receipt of the appeal. The
Village Board and/or the Village Attorney may, upon written notice thereof to
the owner, take no more than ten (10) additional days to decide the appeal. If
the owner requests additional time for consideration of the appeal, the
additional time shall be granted upon approval of the Village Board/Village
Attorney. (Ord. 16-1, 7-25-2016; amd. 2018 Code)
   D.   An owner who wishes to challenge the applicability of this chapter to
his/her building without the Code Enforcement Officer's determination having
been made, shall set forth specific facts to support nonapplicability in a
writing to the Code Enforcement Officer. In the event the Code Enforcement
Officer determines that the subject building is a "vacant building", the owner
shall have the right to appeal the Code Enforcement Officer's determination to
the Village Attorney as provided herein. (Ord. 16-1, 7-25-2016)
9-7-4: REGISTRATION OF VACANT BUILDING:
   A.   Obligation To Register: The owner of a building who knows, or from all
the facts and circumstances should know, that his/her building is or has become
a "vacant building" within the meaning of this chapter after the effective date
hereof or the owner of a building which the Code Enforcement Officer determines
at any time to be a "vacant building", or the owner of a building whose appeal
from the Code Enforcement Officer's determination has been denied by the
Village Attorney shall take the actions provided in this section within fifteen
(15) days after either the date of the Code Enforcement Officer's notice of
determination or occurrence of the facts which would cause a reasonable person
to believe that the building was a "vacant building", or denial of the appeal,
whichever is applicable. Registration does not exonerate nor does it preclude
any of the actions the Village is authorized to take pursuant to this chapter
or elsewhere in this Code. (Ord. 16-1, 7-25-2016)
   B.   Registration Requirements:
      1.   Registration Required; Fee; Contents: The owner shall register the
building with the Code Enforcement Officer, on a form provided by the Code
Enforcement Officer and pay the one hundred dollar ($100.00) annual nonprorated
vacant building registration fee. The form shall include, as a minimum, the
name, street address, and telephone number of the owner; the case name and
number of any litigation pending concerning or affecting the building,
including bankruptcy cases; and the name, street address, and telephone number
of all persons with any legal interest in the building or the premises. The
form shall require the owner to identify a natural person twenty one (21) years
of age or older who maintains a permanent address in Kankakee County, Illinois,
to accept service on behalf of the owner with respect to any notices the Code
Enforcement Officer sends pursuant to this chapter or services of process in
any proceeding commenced to enforce any provision of this chapter, and file
with the Code Enforcement Officer on the registration form, the name, address,
and telephone number of said person. A street is required. A post office box is
not an acceptable address. In the event that the property becomes occupied
prior to the expiration of six (6) months after the original determination,
one-half (1/2) of the fee paid shall be refunded to the owner;
      2.   Renewal Of Registration: The owner shall renew the vacant building
registration each year on the anniversary date of the first filing for the time
the building remained vacant and pay the required one hundred dollar ($100.00)
annual fee; and
      3.   Amended Registration: The owner shall file an amended registration
within fifteen (15) days of any change in the information contained in the
annual registration. A new registration is required for any change in ownership
whatsoever. (Ord. 16-1, 7-25-2016; amd. 2018 Code)
   C.   Notice And Inspection:
      1.   The form shall require the owner to indicate his/her "acceptance of
notice by posting" consenting to service of notices sent or required to be
sent, pursuant to this chapter, by posting on the building if the owner fails
to renew the registration if required, or maintain as current with the Code
Enforcement Officer, the information required regarding the person designated
to accept notice and service of process.
      2.   The owner shall allow for a Code compliance inspection of the
interior of the vacant building and shall pay a two hundred dollar ($200.00)
fee therefor within thirty (30) days of the inspection. Such inspection will
determine the extent of compliance with Village Property, Building, Health,
Fire, and Water and Sewer Codes. The Village shall send the inspection report
to the owner within thirty (30) days. (Ord. 16-1, 7-25-2016)
   D.   Insurance Requirements: The owner shall obtain liability insurance and
maintain such insurance for as long as the building is vacant, and file
evidence of such insurance with the Code Enforcement Officer, as follows: An
amount equal to three (3) times the assessed valuation of the real estate and
all improvements thereon as determined by the County Assessor. (Ord. 16-1, 7-
25-2016; amd. 2018 Code)
9-7-5: VACANT BUILDING PLAN:
   A.   Plan Required; Contents: At the time a building is registered as
required herein, the owner shall submit a vacant building plan. The Code
Enforcement Officer may prescribe a form for the plan. If the owner fails to
submit the plan as provided by this section, the Code Enforcement Officer may
determine the plan. The plan shall contain the following as a minimum:
      1.   A plan of action to repair any doors, windows, or other openings
which are boarded up or otherwise secured by any means other than conventional
methods used in the design of the building or permitted for new construction or
similar type. The proposed repair shall result in openings being secured by
conventional methods used in the design of the building or by methods permitted
for new construction of similar type with board removed. Boarding shall be
accomplished with materials and methods described by the Code Enforcement
Officer. The owner shall maintain the building in an enclosed and secure state
until the building is reoccupied or made available for immediate occupancy. If
the owner demonstrates that securing of the building will provide adequate
protection to the public, the Code Enforcement Officer may waive the
requirement of an enclosure.
      2.   For building and premises thereof which are determined by the Code
Enforcement Officer as being or containing public nuisances, as defined in this
chapter, then the vacant building plan shall contain a plan of action to remedy
such public nuisance(s).
      3.   A time schedule identifying a date of commencement of repair and
date of completion of repair for each improperly secured opening and nuisance
identified by the Code Enforcement Officer.
      4.   When the owner proposes to demolish the vacant building, then the
owner shall submit a plan and time schedule for such demolition.
      5.   A plan of action to maintain the building and premises thereof in
conformance with this chapter.
      6.   A plan of action, with a time schedule, identifying the date the
building will be habitable and occupied or offered for occupancy or sale. The
time schedule shall include date(s) of commencement and completion of all
actions required to achieve habitability. No plan which provides for compliance
with this chapter or which will not, as determined by the Code Enforcement
Officer, achieve such compliance, within six (6) months, in the case of a
vacant boarded building, and two (2) years, in the case of a vacant, unboarded,
and Code compliant building will be approved.
      7.   All premises upon which unoccupied or vacant buildings are located
and the exteriors shall at all times be maintained in compliance with this
Code. (Ord. 16-1, 7-25-2016)
      8.   Exterior lighting shall be according to standards established by the
Code Enforcement Officer and available from the Code Enforcement Officer.
   B.   Signage: The owner shall affix in a public place and visible to the
public located upon or adjacent to the main entrance door to any building which
is boarded, a weatherproof notice providing the following information: the
name, address, and telephone number of the owner, and in addition, for
buildings which are the subject of a foreclosure action, the name, address, and
telephone number of the plaintiff and the plaintiff's attorney, if any, in the
foreclosure action. The sign must be placed so that its message is legible from
the public way. (Ord. 16-1, 7-25-2016; amd. 2018 Code)
   C.   Approval Of Plan:
      1.   Review Of Plan: The Code Enforcement Officer shall review the
proposed vacant building plan in accordance with the standards in subsection C2
of this section. The Code Enforcement Officer shall send notice to the owner of
the vacant building of his determination.
      2.   Standards For Plan Approval: In considering the appropriateness of a
vacant building plan, the Code Enforcement Officer shall include the following
in his/her consideration and shall make written findings as to each:
         a.   The purpose of this chapter and intent of the Village Board to
minimize the time a building is boarded or otherwise vacant.
         b.   The effect of the building and the proposed plan on adjoining
property.
         c.   The length of time the building has been vacant.
         d.   The presence of any public nuisance on the property.
         e.   The likelihood that the plan or portion(s) thereof will prevent
or ameliorate the condition it is designed to address.
   D.   Authority To Modify Plan: The Code Enforcement Officer shall, upon
notice to the vacant building owner, have the right to modify the vacant
building plan by modifying the dates of performance, the proposed methods of
action, or by imposing additional requirements consistent with this chapter he/
she deems necessary to protect the public health, safety, or welfare.
   E.   Failure To Comply With Plan: Failure to have an approved plan within
thirty (30) days of filing the registration form or failure to comply with the
approved plan shall constitute a violation of this chapter subjecting the owner
of the building to penalties as provided in this chapter and to any remedies
the Village may avail itself of as provided herein and elsewhere in this Code,
including, but limited to, an action to compel correction of property
maintenance violations. (Ord. 16-1, 7-25-2016)
9-7-6: OTHER ENFORCEMENT:
The registration of a vacant building shall not preclude action by the Village
to demolish or to take other action against the building pursuant to other
provisions of this chapter, this Code, or other applicable legislation. (Ord.
16-1, 7-25-2016)
9-7-7: CERTIFICATION FOR OCCUPANCY OF VACANT BUILDING:
A certificate of Code compliance for vacant buildings issued by the Code
Enforcement Officer and payment in full of all fees imposed pursuant to this
chapter are required prior to any occupancy of a vacant building. (Ord. 16-1,
7-25-2016)
9-7-8: BOARDING OF BUILDINGS:
   A.   It is the policy of the Village that boarding is a temporary solution
to prevent unauthorized entry into a vacant building and that boarded buildings
are a public nuisance. A vacant building may not remain boarded longer than six
(6) months unless an extension of that time is part of a plan approved by the
Code Enforcement Officer.
   B.   A vacant building which is unboarded and Code compliant and for which
boarding is determined by the Code Enforcement Officer on the basis of police
reports, citizen complaints, and other information of other type considered
reliable by reasonable persons, to not require boardings to prevent
unauthorized entry may not remain vacant for more than two (2) years without an
approved plan for occupancy, sale, demolition, or other disposition of the
building. (Ord. 16-1, 7-25-2016)
9-7-9: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person found to have violated any provision of this chapter shall
be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code, in addition to any other legal or equitable remedies
available to the Village. Such other remedies include, but are not limited to,
injunctive relief, application to a court of competent jurisdiction for a
receiver, demolition, or condemnation, contracting for the repair or purchase
of the premises, or foreclosure of any lien the Village may have thereon. (Ord.
16-1, 7-25-2016; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   A separate and distinct offense shall be committed each day on which
such person or persons shall violate the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   The Village may enforce this chapter in its administrative adjudication
system or through the court system. Administrative adjudication shall be
conducted in accordance with the provisions of this Code, as it may be amended.
   D.   Nothing herein contained shall prohibit the Village from immediately
condemning, as provided in this Code, a building or taking other immediate
action upon a determination that the building is a public nuisance or poses an
imminent danger to the occupants of the building, or the public health, safety,
and welfare. (Ord. 16-1, 7-25-2016)
CHAPTER 8
MOVING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
9-8-1: Permit Requirements
9-8-2: Bond Required
9-8-3: Safety Devices
9-8-4: Interference With Utility Wires
9-8-5: Trimming Trees Required
9-8-6: Penalty
9-8-1: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall move any building on, through or over
any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place in the Village without having
obtained a permit therefor from the Village. (1987 Code §
4-3-1)
   B.   Application For Permit: Applications for such permits shall be made in
writing to the Village Clerk and shall state thereon the proposed route and
number of days it is intended that the building should occupy any portion of
any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place. (1987 Code §
4-3-2)
   C.   Permit Fees: Upon the approval of the intended route by the Committee
on Streets and Alleys, the applicant and permittee shall pay to the Village
Clerk a fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00), which fee shall entitle the
applicant and permittee to use the public streets, alleys and ways of the
Village on the route approved by the Committee on Streets and Alleys for a
period of one day for the purpose of moving the building for which said permit
is granted hereunder. If it shall require said permittee more than one day in
which to move said building, he shall pay to the Village Clerk an additional
fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for each day or fraction thereof over and above
the first day used to move said building. (1987 Code § 4-3-3; amd. 2018 Code)
   D.   Issuance Of Permit: Upon the compliance with the provisions of this
chapter and the payment of the fees herein provided, the Village Clerk shall
sign and issue a permit to the applicant for the moving of the building on said
intended route. (1987 Code § 4-3-4)
9-8-2: BOND REQUIRED:
Every person applying for a permit under this chapter shall submit with his
application a cash bond or a bond with a lawful corporate surety or a personal
bond signed by two (2) or more responsible freeholders of the Village,
conditioned on his compliance with all the provisions of this chapter, and
agreeing to pay and hold the Village harmless from any claim which may be made
against it by reason of the occupation of any streets, sidewalks, alleys or
other public place by the building or structure moved, and agreeing to
reimburse and pay the Village for all damage which may be caused to its
streets, alleys or other public ways by virtue of the moving of said building
or structure in question. The amount of the bond shall be at least ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00), and it shall be approved by the Village Clerk. (1987 Code
§ 4-3-5; amd. 2018 Code)
9-8-3: SAFETY DEVICES:
The person moving any building or structure through the streets or other public
ways of the Village shall keep warning signs and lanterns or lights at night on
the building or structure so as to guard against any person or vehicle
colliding therewith. Said permittee shall also set out such flares and erect
such barricades and take any and all other steps which shall be necessary to
warn the public and protect it from colliding with said building or structure.
(1987 Code § 4-3-6)
9-8-4: INTERFERENCE WITH UTILITY WIRES:
Whenever it shall be necessary to interfere with the wires or cables of a
public utility in moving a building, the terms of any existing special or
franchise ordinance governing this subject matter shall apply. (1987 Code § 4-
3-7)
9-8-5: TRIMMING TREES REQUIRED:
The permittee shall trim, at his own expense, all trees required to be trimmed
for the purpose of moving the building or structure, but no said trees shall be
trimmed by the permittee until the Committee on Streets and Alleys has approved
the proposed trimming to be done by the permittee. (1987 Code § 4-3-8)
9-8-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1987
Code § 4-3-9; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 9
HOUSE TRAILERS AND MANUFACTURED HOMES
SECTION:
9-9-1: House Trailers
9-9-2: Manufactured Homes
9-9-1: HOUSE TRAILERS:
   A.   Except as provided in subsection C of this section, no new house
trailers will be allowed inside the Village limits.
   B.   If the property that an existing house trailer occupies is sold or
purchased, the existing house trailer on that property must be removed from the
Village limits.
   C.   If an existing trailer is being occupied by a Village resident, and the
existing occupied house trailer is rendered uninhabitable (fire, storm, etc.),
then it will become a decision of the Village Board, by a majority vote of the
Village Board, to allow a new house trailer to be allowed to be put in its
place. (Ord. 17-8, 11-11-2017; amd. 2018 Code)
9-9-2: MANUFACTURED HOMES:
   A.   Types Of Manufactured Homes: There are two (2) basic types of factory
built structures: mobile and modular.
      1.   Mobile Homes: The construction of the mobile type of single- family
residence is regulated by the Federal Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD) and must comply with the National Manufactured Home
Construction and Safety Standards. These standards apply uniformly across the
Country, and it is illegal for a state or local unit of government to impose
additional construction requirements. Mobile type units will have a red metal
permanently affixed to the rear of each towable unit.
      2.   Modular Homes: The construction of modular type dwelling units is
regulated by the State Department of Public Health. Unlike the mobile type
homes, the Village may require additional items other than the minimum State
requirements to be incorporated into the construction of modular homes. Modular
type homes shall be placed on a permanent foundation. A State approved modular
dwelling will have a yellow seal on the electrical panel box of the home.
Modular type units manufactured by a factory in Indiana will not bear a State
seal, but rather will contain the seal of approval from the State of Indiana.
Modular type units are treated as a single-family detached dwelling.
   B.   County Mobile Home Policy Adopted: Unless superseded by this chapter,
the Village will adopt and follow the Kankakee County Mobile Home Policy, which
has definitions, authority, restrictions, and notes. The current version was
revised February 17, 2017. If Kankakee County makes any other revisions, all
revisions will automatically be adopted under this subsection. (Ord. 17-8, 11-
11-2017)
CHAPTER 10
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-10-1: County Regulations Adopted
9-10-2: Amendments To Regulations
9-10-1: COUNTY REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted by the Village the subdivision regulations of the
Kankakee County Code, adopted June 9, 1981, and effective June 9, 1981, as
promulgated by the Kankakee County Board of Trustees, together with the
accumulative supplements thereto. The provisions of the County subdivision
regulations shall govern all matters covered therein to the extent that the
same are not in conflict with nor amended by any provision of this Code or
other ordinances of the Village. (1987 Code §
6-1-1)
9-10-2: AMENDMENTS TO REGULATIONS:
The Kankakee County subdivision regulations herein adopted are hereby amended
as follows:
"Village" shall be inserted wherever the word "County" appears.
"Village Board" shall be inserted wherever the words "County Board" appear.
"Planning Commission" shall be inserted wherever the words "Planning and Zoning
Committee" appear.
"Incorporated" is inserted wherever the word "Unincorporated" appears.
"Village Attorney" is inserted wherever the words "State's Attorney" appear.
The definition of Plat Officer in section 17-2 of said subdivision regulations
is amended to read as follows:
 
Plat Officer The Plat Enforcement Officer of the Village which shall be the
             Chairman of the Planning Commission.
 
Section 17-4(a)(2) is deleted and in lieu thereof the following provision is
adopted:
Chairman of the Streets and Alleys Committee: The chairman of the Streets and
Alleys Committee of the Village Board shall review with the Plat Officer and
the Village Engineer all preliminary plats and make determinations concerning
street and drainage design standards and engineering specifications as
stipulated herein.
In section 17-24(b), the words "chairman of the Streets and Alleys Committee of
the Village Board" are inserted where the words "Superintendent of Highways"
appear.
Section 17-102 is deleted and in lieu thereof a new provision entitled Review
Procedure is inserted as follows:
      1.   All appeals shall be made to the Appeals Board to which the
developer shall submit his proposal to the Board and they shall determine the
feasibility of the variation requested and its effect on the total project.
      2.   After hearing the case, the Board shall submit a report to the
Planning Commission and recommend either:
         a.   Acceptance;
         b.   Acceptance with modification;
         c.   Acceptance with restrictions;
         d.   Rejection.
Upon receipt of the Board's recommendation, the Commission shall reconsider the
plan, and make its own recommendation to the Village Board. The final plat
should then be prepared as provided for in this Chapter.
      3.   The Plat Officer shall arrange a meeting of the Appeals Board to be
held within thirty (30) days of the Commission's official decision to allow a
hearing on the proposed variation. The developer shall prepare documentation
for his case and present six (6) copies, in detail, to the Plat Officer no less
than ten (10) working days prior to the appeals hearing. The Plat Officer shall
distribute the copies to the members of the Board and shall retain one copy for
the Board files. The Board may then hear the case as it is presented by the
developer or his agent. After hearing the case and asking questions relative to
the case, a member of the Board may present a recommendation to floor.
Following any discussion, a polling of the Board shall be taken by the
chairman. A simple majority of those present shall be considered as approval of
the recommendation, but, if it is so desired by the Board, a majority report
and a minority report may be forwarded to the Planning Commission for their
consideration at their next scheduled committee meeting.
(1987 Code §
6-1-2)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
PURPOSE; SCOPE; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Purposes
10-1-3: Scope
10-1-4: Interpretation And Application Of Provisions
10-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known, cited and referred to as the BUCKINGHAM ZONING
ORDINANCE. (1987 Code §
5-1-1)
10-1-2: PURPOSES:
This title is adopted for the following purposes:
   A.   To promote and protect the public health, safety, morals, comfort and
general welfare of the people;
   B.   To divide the Village into zones or districts restricting and
regulating therein the location, erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration and use of buildings, structures and land for residence, business,
manufacturing and other specified uses;
   C.   To protect the character and the stability of the residential business
and manufacturing areas within the Village and to promote the orderly and
beneficial development of such areas;
   D.   To provide adequate light, air, privacy and convenience of access to
property;
   E.   To regulate the intensity of use of lot areas and to determine the area
of open spaces surrounding buildings necessary to provide adequate light and
air and to protect the public health;
   F.   To establish building lines and the location of buildings designed for
residential, business, manufacturing and/or other uses within such areas;
   G.   To fix reasonable standards to which buildings or structures shall
conform therein;
   H.   To prohibit uses, buildings or structures incompatible with the
character of development or intended uses within specified zoning districts;
   I.   To prevent additions to, or alteration or remodeling of, existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations imposed hereunder;
   J.   To limit congestion in the public streets and protect the public
health, safety, convenience and general welfare by providing for the off street
parking of motor vehicles and the loading and unloading of commercial vehicles;
   K.   To protect against fire, explosion, noxious fumes and other hazards in
the interest of the public health, safety, comfort and general welfare;
   L.   To prevent the overcrowding of land and undue concentration of
structures, so far as is possible and appropriate in each district, by
regulating the use and bulk of buildings in relation to the land surrounding
them;
   M.   To conserve the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
Village;
   N.   To provide for the elimination of nonconforming uses of land, buildings
and structures which are adversely affecting the character and value of
desirable development in each district; and
   O.   To define and limit all powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies as provided herein. (1987 Code §
5-1-2)
10-1-3: SCOPE:
No building or structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed
or structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used for any purpose
other than is permitted in the district in which the building or land is
located. (1987 Code §
5-1-3)
10-1-4: INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, they shall be held
to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of safety, health,
convenience, comfort, prosperity and general welfare. It is not intended by
this title to interfere with, abrogate, annul or repeal any ordinances, rules
or regulations previously adopted and not in conflict with any of the
provisions of this title which shall be adopted pursuant to law relating to the
use of buildings or premises, nor is it intended by this title to interfere
with, abrogate or annul any easements, covenants or other agreements between
parties; except, that where this title imposes a greater restriction upon the
land, buildings or premises or upon the height of buildings or requires larger
open spaces than are imposed or required by such other ordinances or such other
easements, covenants or agreements, the provisions of this title shall control.
(1987 Code § 5-1-4)
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Scope
10-2-2: Rules Of Word Construction
10-2-3: Definitions
10-2-1: SCOPE:
In the construction of this title, the rules and definitions contained in this
chapter shall be observed and applied, except when repugnant to the context of
any provision. (1987 Code §
5-2-1)
10-2-2: RULES OF WORD CONSTRUCTION:
Words used in the present tense shall include the future; words used in the
singular number shall include the plural number, and the plural the singular.
The word "building" shall include the word "structure", the word "lot" shall
include the word "plot", and the word "shall" is mandatory and not directory.
(1987 Code §
5-2-1)
10-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE: A subordinate building or use which is located on
the same lot on which the principal building or use is situated and which is
reasonable, necessary and incidental to the conduct of the primary use of such
building or main use, when permitted by district regulation. An "accessory use"
includes, but is not limited to the following:
   A.   A child's playhouse, garden house and private greenhouse.
   B.   A garage, shed or building for domestic storage.
   C.   Incinerators incidental to residential use.
   D.   Storage of merchandise normally carried in stock on the same lot or
parcel of ground with such activities, unless such storage is excluded by the
district regulations.
   E.   Storage of goods used in or produced by manufacturing activities, on
the same lot or parcel of ground with such activities, unless such storage is
excluded by the district regulations.
   F.   Off street motor vehicle parking areas, and loading and unloading
facilities.
   G.   Signs as permitted and regulated in each district incorporated in this
title.
   H.   Public utility communication, electric, gas, water and sewer lines,
supports and incidental equipment.
   I.   Where a substantial part of the wall of an accessory building is a part
of the wall of the main building or where an accessory building is attached to
the main building in a substantial manner as by a roof, such accessory building
shall be counted as part of the main building.
ACREAGE: Any tract or parcel of land which has not been subdivided and platted.
ALLEY: A public way, not more than thirty feet (30') wide, which affords only a
secondary means of access to abutting property.
APARTMENT: A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-family structure, which is
arranged, designed, used or intended to be used as a single housekeeping unit.
Complete kitchen facilities, permanently installed, must always be included for
each apartment.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR: Engine rebuilding or major reconditioning of worn or
damaged motor vehicles or trailers; collision service, including body, frame or
fender straightening or repair, and overall painting of vehicles.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR: Incidental repairs, replacement of parts and motor
service to automobiles, but not including any operation specified under the
definition of "automobile repair, major".
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: A place where gasoline, stored only in underground
tanks, kerosene, lubricating oil or grease for operation of automobiles is
offered for sale directly to the public on the premises, and including minor
accessories and services for automobiles, but not including major automobile
repair; and including washing of automobiles where no chain conveyor, blower or
steam cleaning device is employed. When the dispensing, sale or offering for
sale of motor fuels or oil is incidental to the conduct of a public garage, the
premises shall be classified as a public garage.
BASEMENT: A story partly or wholly underground. Where more than one-half (1/2)
of its height is above the established curb level or above the average level of
the adjoining ground where curb level has not been established, a basement
shall not be counted as a story for purposes of height measurement.
BILLBOARD: Any structure or portion thereof upon which signs or advertisements
are used as an outdoor display. This definition does not include any bulletin
boards used announcing church service or to display official court or public
office notices or signs advertising the sale or lease of the premises on which
the sign is located.
BOARD: The Board of Zoning Appeals of the Village of Buckingham, Illinois.
BOARDING HOUSE: A house (frequently a family home) in which lodgers rent one or
more rooms for one or more nights, and sometimes for extended periods of weeks,
months, and years.
BUILDING: Any structure with substantial walls and roof securely affixed to the
land and entirely separated on all sides from any other structure by space or
walls in which there are no communicating doors, windows or openings; and which
is designed or intended for the shelter, enclosure or protection of persons,
animals or chattels. Any structure with interior areas not normally accessible
for human use, such as gas holders, oil tanks, water tanks, grain elevators,
coal bunkers, oil cracking towers and other similar structures are not
considered buildings.
BUILDING, NONCONFORMING: A legally existing building which fails to comply with
the regulations set forth in the chapter applicable to the district in which
such building is located.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL: A building in which is conducted the main use of the
zoning lot on which it is situated.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: A line parallel to the street line at a distance from
it, regulated by the front yard requirements in this title.
BULK: The term used to describe the size and mutual relationships of buildings
and other structures, as to size, height, coverage, shape, location of exterior
walls in relation to lot lines, to the centerline of streets, to other walls of
the same building, and to other buildings or structures, and to all open spaces
relating to the building or structure.
BUS LOT: Any lot or land area for the storage or layover of passenger buses or
motor coaches.
CARTAGE, LOCAL: Pick up and delivery of parcels, packages and freight by motor
truck within and not exceeding fifteen (15) miles of the Village.
CELLAR: A story having more than one-half (1/2) of its height below the curb
level or below the highest level of the adjoining ground. A cellar shall not be
counted as a story for the purpose of height measurements.
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY: A certificate issued by the building inspector
stating that the occupancy and use of land or a building or structure referred
to therein complies with the provisions of this title.
CLINIC OR MEDICAL HEALTH CENTER: An establishment where patients are admitted
for special study and treatment by two (2) or more licensed physicians and
their professional associates, practicing medicine together.
COMMISSION: The Village Planning Commission.
CORNER LOT: See definition of lot, corner.
CORNER LOT, REVERSED: See definition of lot, reversed corner.
COVERAGE, LOT: See definition of lot coverage.
CURB LEVEL: The level of the established curb in front of the building measured
at the center of such front. Where a building faces on more than one street,
the "curb level" shall be the average of the levels of the curbs at the center
of the front of each street. Where no curb elevation has been established, the
mean level of the land immediately adjacent to the building shall be considered
the "curb level".
DISTRICT OR ZONE: A section of the territorial jurisdictional area of the
Buckingham Village Planning Commission for which uniform regulations governing
the use, height, area, size and intensity of use of buildings and land, and
open spaces about buildings, are established by this title.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively for
residential occupancy, including one-family dwelling units, two-family dwelling
units, and multiple-family dwelling units, but not including hotels or boarding
or lodging houses.
DWELLING, GROUP: Two (2) or more one-family, two-family or multiple-family
dwellings, or boarding or lodging houses, located on one zoning lot, but not
including tourist courts or motels.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A building or portion thereof designed or altered
for occupancy by three (3) or more families living independently of each other.
DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY: A building designed exclusively for use and occupancy by
one family and entirely separated from any other dwelling by space.
DWELLING ROW (PARTY WALL): A row of two (2) to eight (8) attached, one-family,
party wall dwellings, not more than two and one-half (21/2) stories in height,
nor more than two (2) rooms in depth measured from the building line.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building designed or altered to provide dwelling units
for occupancy by two (2) families.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms in a residential structure or apartment hotel,
designed for occupancy by one family, for living and sleeping purposes.
EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION: Public, parochial, charitable or nonprofit junior
college, college or university, other than trade or business schools, including
instructional and recreational uses, with or without living quarters, dining
rooms, restaurants, heating plants and other incidental facilities for
students, teachers and employees.
FAMILY: One or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption, or a group
of not more than five (5) persons (excluding servants) who are not nor need be
related by blood, marriage or adoption, living together and maintaining a
common household, but not including sororities, fraternities and other similar
organizations.
GARAGE, BUS: Any building used or intended to be used for the storage of three
(3) or more passenger buses, or motor coaches used in public transportation,
including school buses.
GARAGE, BUS OR TRUCK: A building which is used or intended to be used for the
storage of motor trucks, truck-trailers, tractors and commercial vehicles
exceeding one and one-half (11/2) tons' capacity.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building or portion of the principal
building designed, arranged, used or intended to be used for the storage of
passenger automobiles of the occupants of the premises.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: A building other than a private garage used for the care,
incidental servicing and sale of automobile supplies, or where motor vehicles
are parked or stored for remuneration, hire or sale within the structure, but
not including trucks, tractors, truck-trailers and commercial vehicles
exceeding one and one-half (11/2) tons' capacity.
GUESTHOUSE: Living quarters within a detached accessory building located on the
same premises with the principal building for use by temporary guests of the
occupants of the premises. Such premises shall have no kitchen facilities nor
be rented or otherwise used as a separate dwelling.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any use customarily conducted entirely within a dwelling and
carried on by the inhabitants thereof, which use is clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes and does not change
the character thereof; and provided, that no articles are sold or offered for
sale except such as may be produced on the premises by members of the immediate
family. Offices, clinics, doctors' offices, hospitals, barbershops, beauty
parlors, dress shops, millinery shops, real estate offices, tearooms,
restaurants, tourist homes, animal hospitals, kennels, among others, shall not
be deemed to be home occupations.
HOSPITAL OR SANITARIUM: Any institution open to the public in which patients or
injured persons are given medical or surgical care, and for the care of
contagious diseases or incurable patients.
HOTEL, APARTMENT: A building containing dwelling units or individual
guestrooms, the majority of which are for permanent guests. Maid and janitor
service may be provided, but kitchen facilities are not necessarily included.
HOTEL OR MOTEL: A building in which more than five (5) rooms or suites are
reserved to provide living and sleeping accommodations for temporary guests,
and in which no provisions are made for cooking in any individual room or
suite.
HOUSEHOLDER: The occupant of a dwelling unit which is either the owner or
lessee thereof.
JUNK: Any discarded material including, but not limited to, old rope, metal,
parts of machinery, machinery, bottles, cans, glass and glass containers and
incidentals or other uses. Junk is further defined to include any vehicle, car
or chassis not in running order and without a current valid license for six (6)
months or longer period of time, including any vehicle in which it is found
that the engine or motor or other essential operating parts have been removed
for more than thirty (30) days or its tires have been deflated or its wheels
removed for more than seven (7) days; provided, that a vehicle which the owner
proves is under the actual process of repair for future operation and which is
intended for bona fide future use shall not be deemed included in this
definition.
LABORATORY (COMMERCIAL): A place devoted to experimental study such as testing
and analyzing. Manufacturing, assembly or packaging of products is not included
within this definition.
LINE OF A BUILDING (For Measuring Yards): A line parallel to the nearest lot
line drawn through the point of a building or group of buildings nearest to
such lot line, exclusive of such features specified as being permitted to
extend into a yard.
LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACE, OFF STREET: An open, hard surfaced area of land
other than a street or a public way, the principal use of which is for the
standing, loading and unloading of motor trucks, tractors and trailers, to
avoid undue interference with the public use of streets and alleys. Such a
space shall not be less than ten feet in width, forty five feet in length and
fourteen feet in height, (10' x 45' x 14') exclusive of access aisles and
maneuvering space.
LODGING OR ROOMING HOUSE: A building with not more than five (5) guestrooms
where lodging is provided for compensation pursuant to previous arrangement,
but not open to the public or to overnight guests.
LOT: The word "lot", when used alone, shall mean a "zoning lot" unless the
context of this title clearly indicates otherwise.
LOT, CORNER: A parcel of land situated at the intersection of two (2) or more
streets or adjoining a curved street at the end of a block.
LOT COVERAGE: The area of a zoning lot occupied by the principal building or
buildings and accessory buildings.
LOT DEPTH: The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines
measured in the mean direction of the side lot lines.
LOT FRONTAGE: The front of a lot shall be that boundary of a lot along a public
street; for a corner lot, the owner may elect either street line as the front
lot line.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner or reversed corner lot.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The front property line of a zoning lot.
LOT LINE, INTERIOR: A side lot line common with another lot.
LOT LINE, REAR: The rear lot line is the lot line or lot lines most nearly
parallel to and most remote from the front lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Lot lines other than front or rear lot lines are side lot
lines.
LOT, REVERSED CORNER: A corner lot, the rear of which abuts upon the side of
another lot, whether across an alley or not.
LOT, THROUGH: A lot having frontage on two (2) parallel or approximately
parallel streets, and which is not a corner lot.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at right
angles to the lot depth at the established front building line.
LOT, ZONING: See definition of zoning lot.
MANUFACTURE: The making of anything by any agency or process.
MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL, PRIVATE: A building in which freight, brought to said
building by motor truck, is assembled and sorted for routing in intrastate and
interstate shipment by motor truck.
NONCONFORMING USE: Any building, structure or land lawfully occupied by use or
lawfully established at the effective date hereof or amendments hereto, which
does not conform after the effective date hereof or amendments hereto with the
use regulations of this title.
NURSERY, DAY: An institution provided with care for three (3) or more children
under the age of four (4) years for periods of more than four (4) hours but not
exceeding twenty four (24) hours.
NURSERY SCHOOL: An institution providing daycare service for children from four
(4) to six (6) years of age.
NURSING HOME OR REST HOME: A private home for the care of children or the aged
or infirm, or a place of rest for those suffering bodily disorders, but not
including facilities for the treatment of sickness or injuries for surgical
care.
PARCEL DELIVERY STATION: A building in which commodities sold at retail within
the area and packaged by the retailer, are assembled and routed for delivery to
retail customers located within the area.
PARKING AREA, PRIVATE: An open, hard surfaced area other than a street or
public way, designed, arranged and made available for the storage of private
passenger automobiles only for occupants of the building or buildings for which
the parking area is developed and is accessory.
PARKING AREA, PUBLIC: An open, hard surfaced area other than a street or public
way, intended to be used for the storage of passenger automobiles and
commercial vehicles under one and one- half (11/2) tons' capacity and available
to the public, whether for compensation, free or as an accommodation to clients
or customers.
PARKING SPACE, AUTOMOBILE: Space within a public or private parking area of not
less than one hundred sixty two (162) square feet (81/2 feet x 19 feet),
exclusive of access drivers or aisles, ramps, columns or office and work areas,
for the storage of a one passenger automobile or commercial vehicle under one
and one-half (11/2) tons' capacity.
PUBLIC UTILITY: Any person, firm, corporation or Municipal department duly
authorized to furnish, under public regulation, to the public, electricity,
gas, steam, telephone, telegraph, transportation or water.
RAILROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY: A strip of land with tracks and auxiliary facilities for
track operation, but not including depots, loading platforms, stations, train
sheds, warehouses, car shops, car yards, locomotive shops or water towers.
SETBACK LINE, BUILDING: See definition of building setback line.
SIGN, OUTDOOR ADVERTISING: A sign of any material and character whatever which
is for outdoor advertising purposes placed on the ground or on any natural or
manmade object. The term "placed" as used in this definition shall include
erecting, constructing, painting, printing and affixing or making visible in
any manner whatsoever.
SPECIAL USE: Any use of land or buildings, or both, described and permitted
herein, subject to the provisions of chapter 3, article B of this title.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be no floor above it, then
the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it. Any portion of a
story exceeding fourteen feet (14') in height shall be considered as an
additional story for each fourteen feet (14') or fraction thereof.
STORY, HALF: A half story is that portion of a building under a gable, hip or
mansard roof, the wall plates of which, on at least two (2) opposite exterior
walls, are not more than four and one- half feet (41/2') above the finished
floor of such story. In the case of one-family dwellings, two-family dwellings
and multiple- family dwellings less than three (3) stories in height, a half
story in a sloping roof shall not be counted as a story for the purpose of this
title. In the case of multiple-family dwellings three (3) or more stories in
height, a half story shall be counted as a story.
STREET: A public way other than an alley.
STREET LINE: A line separating an abutting lot, piece or parcel from a street.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS: Any change other than incidental repairs, which would
prolong the life of the supporting members of a building or structure, such as
bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or is attached to something having location on the ground.
TAVERN: A building where liquors are sold to be consumed on the premises.
TERRACE, OPEN: A level and rather narrow plane, or platform, for the purpose of
this title, is located adjacent to one or more faces of the principal structure
and which is constructed not more than four feet (4') in height above the
average level of the adjoining ground.
TITLE: Reference to "title" herein shall be construed as the zoning title.
TOURIST COURTS, MOTOR LODGES, MOTELS: A group of attached or detached buildings
containing individual sleeping or living units, designed for or used
temporarily by automobile tourists or transients, with garage attached or
parking space, conveniently located to each unit, including auto courts,
motels, motor lodges or other similar type uses.
TOURIST HOME: A dwelling in which accommodations are provided or offered for
transient guests.
TRAILER CAMP, HOUSE: Any premises occupied or designed to accommodate more than
one family living in an automobile house trailer or mobile home.
TRAILER, HOUSE OR MOBILE HOME: A vehicle without motive power, designed to be
drawn by a motor vehicle and to be used for human habitation or for carrying
persons and property, including a trailer coach, house trailer or mobile home.
TRUCK PARKING AREA OR YARD: Any land used or intended to be used for the
storage or parking of trucks, tractors, truck-trailers and including commercial
vehicles, while not loading or unloading, and which exceed one and one-half
(11/2) tons in capacity.
USE: The purpose of which land for a building thereon is designed, arranged or
intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained, let or leased.
USE, NONCONFORMING: Any existing use of land or building which fails to comply
with the requirements set forth in this title as relates to the zoning district
in which such use is located.
USED CAR LOT: A zoning lot on which used cars, trailers or trucks are displayed
for sale or trade.
YARD: An open space on the same zoning lot with a principal building or group
of buildings, which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its lowest level
upward, except as otherwise permitted in this title, and which extends along a
lot line and at right angles thereto to a depth or width specified in the yard
regulations for the district in which the zoning lot is located.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the full width of the zoning lot and lying
between the front line of the lot and the nearest line of the principal
building.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the full width of the zoning lot and lying
between the rear line of the lot and the nearest line of the principal
building.
YARD, SIDE: That part of the yard lying between the nearest line of the
principal building and a side lot line, and extending from the required front
yard (or from the front lot line, if there is not a required front yard) to the
required rear yard.
ZONING LOT: A plot of ground made up of one or more parcels which is or may be
occupied by a use, building or buildings including the open spaces required by
this title.
ZONING MAPS: The map or maps incorporated into this title and made a part
hereof. (1987 Code §
5-2-1; amd. 2018 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-3-1: Enforcement Officials
10-3-2: Permits, Licenses And Certificates
10-3-2-1: Restrictions On Issuance Of Permits, Licenses And Certificates
10-3-2-2: Permits
10-3-2-3: Certificates
10-3-3: Amendments
10-3-4: Fees
10-3-5: Penalty
10-3-1: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
The administrator of this zoning title for the Village is designated as the
building inspector or Code Enforcement Officer. The building inspector or Code
Enforcement Officer shall be responsible for enforcing this title. (Ord. 12-3,
2-6-2012)
10-3-2: PERMITS, LICENSES AND CERTIFICATES:
10-3-2-1: RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF PERMITS, LICENSES AND CERTIFICATES:
No application for a building permit or other permit or license, or for a
certificate of occupancy shall be approved by the building inspector or Code
Enforcement Officer and no permit or license shall be issued by any other
Village department, which would otherwise authorize the use or change in use of
any land or building contrary to the provisions of this title, or the erection,
moving, alteration, enlargement or occupancy of any building designed or
intended to be used for a purpose or in a manner contrary to the provisions of
this title. (1987 Code § 5-13-2; amd. 2018 Code)
10-3-2-2: PERMITS:
   A.   Building Permit:
      1.   Permit Required: No building or structure shall hereafter be erected
or structurally altered until a building permit shall be issued by the building
inspector or Code Enforcement Officer stating that the building or structure,
and use of land, comply with the regulations of this title and all building and
health laws and ordinances of the Village.
      2.   Application For Permit: Applications for building permits shall be
accompanied by a plat in duplicate drawn to scale showing the actual dimensions
of the lot or lots to be built upon, the size of the building or structure to
be erected or structurally altered, and its location as may be necessary to
provide for the enforcement of these regulations. A careful record of such
applications and plats shall be kept in the office of the building inspector or
Code Enforcement Officer. (1987 Code § 5-13-2-1; amd. 2018 Code)
   B.   Use Permit: No change shall be made in the use of a building or part
thereof now or hereafter erected or structurally altered, or in the use of land
now or hereafter occupied, without a use permit having first been issued by the
building inspector or Code Enforcement Officer. No such use permit shall be
issued to make such change unless it is in conformity with the provisions of
this title and amendments hereto, hereafter duly enacted. (1987 Code § 5-13-2-
2; amd. 2018 Code)
10-3-2-3: CERTIFICATES:
   A.   Certificate Of Compliance:
      1.   No building or structure hereafter erected or structurally altered
shall be occupied and used until a certificate of compliance has been issued by
the building inspector or Code Enforcement Officer. The certificate of
compliance shall be issued only after the building inspector or Code
Enforcement Officer makes a finding that the building or structure has been
erected or structurally altered in conformance with the provisions of this
title and other health and buildings laws and in accordance with a building
permit. (1987 Code § 5-13-2-3; amd. 2018 Code)
      2.   Certificates of compliance shall be applied for coincident with the
application for a building permit and shall be issued within ten (10) days
after the erection and alteration of such building shall have been
satisfactorily completed. A record of all certificates shall be furnished on
request to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the building
affected. (1987 Code § 5-13-2-3)
   B.   Certificate For Continued Occupancy Of Nonconforming Uses: Certificates
for continued occupancy of nonconforming uses existing at the effective date
hereof shall be issued by the building inspector or Code Enforcement Officer,
and the certificate shall state that the use is a nonconforming one and does
not conform with the provisions of this title. The building inspector or Code
Enforcement Officer shall notify the owners of the property being used as a
nonconforming use and shall furnish said owner with a certificate of occupancy
for such nonconforming use. (1987 Code § 5-13-2-4; amd. 2018 Code)
10-3-3: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Petition For Amendment: The Village Board, Planning Commission, other
governmental bodies and any private petitioner may apply for amendments to the
zoning title and the accompanying Zoning Map made a part hereof by reference.
Any petition for an amendment by a private party shall be accompanied by a
filing fee as established by the Village Board, which fee shall be deposited
with the Village Treasurer within fifteen (15) days after the receipt thereof
and no part shall be returnable to the petitioner.
   B.   Review Of Petition: The regulations imposed and the zoning districts
created under this title may be amended by ordinance, but no such amendment
shall be made by the Village Board without public notice and without a public
hearing before the Village Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall
hold a public hearing and forward its recommendations to the Village Board
within forty five (45) days of the date the petition was submitted to the
Planning Commission, unless it is withdrawn by the petitioner.
   C.   Notice Of Public Hearing: The Village Planning Commission shall cause
notice of public hearing of petitioner's application to be given in the
following manner:
      1.   By publishing notice of the time and place of such hearing in a
paper of general circulation in the Village at least fifteen (15) days prior to
the hearing;
      2.   By causing said notice to contain the particular location for which
the amendment is requested as well as a brief statement describing the proposed
amendment; and
      3.   By notifying such property owners, groups or organizations as it
deems desirable of the proposal. (1987 Code § 5-13-5)
      4.   Any notice required by this subsection C need not include a metes
and bounds legal description; provided, that the notice includes: a) the common
street address or addresses; and b) the property index number ("PIN") or
numbers of all the parcels of real property contained in the affected area.
(2018 Code)
   D.   Written Protest: In the event of written protest against the proposed
amendment signed and acknowledged by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the
frontage proposed to be altered, or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of
the frontage immediately adjoining or across the alley or real line therefrom,
or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage directly opposite the
frontage proposed to be altered as to such regulations or zoning district,
filed with the Village Clerk, such amendment shall not be passed except by the
favorable vote of two-thirds (2/3) of all the members of the Village Board.
   E.   Final Decision: The Village Board, without further public hearing, may
adopt or deny the report of the Planning Commission for any proposed amendment,
or may refer the petition back to the Planning Commission for further
consideration. Any proposed amendment which fails to receive the approval of a
majority of the Planning Commission members, and is so reported, shall not be
passed by the Village Board except by a favorable vote of two- thirds (2/3) of
all the elected members of the Village Board. (1987 Code § 5-13-5; amd. 2018
Code)
10-3-4: FEES:
Fees pertaining to petitions for zoning amendments, use permits, certificates
of compliance, variations and appeals to the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be
established by action of the Village Board from time to time. Such fees shall
be paid to the Village Clerk, who shall give a receipt therefor and account for
same at regular intervals to the Village Board. (1987 Code § 5-13-6)
10-3-5: PENALTY:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with or
who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this title, shall be
fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. Each day that a violation is permitted to
exist shall constitute a separate offense. (1987 Code § 5-13-8; amd. 2018 Code)
ARTICLE A. ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
10-3A-1: Board Established; Membership; Appointment
10-3A-2: Term Of Office; Vacancies And Removals
10-3A-3: Organization
10-3A-4: Appeals
10-3A-5: Duties And Jurisdiction
10-3A-6: Validity Of Board Orders
10-3A-7: Limitations On Board Authority
10-3A-8: Compensation
10-3A-9: Expenditures
10-3A-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby established a Zoning Board of Appeals. Said Board shall consist
of seven (7) members appointed by the President of the Village and confirmed by
the Village Board. The members of said Board shall serve respectively for the
following terms:
1 for 1 year
1 for 2 years
1 for 3 years
1 for 4 years
1 for 5 years
1 for 6 years
1 for 7 years
      (1987 Code § 2-2-1)
10-3A-2: TERM OF OFFICE; VACANCIES AND REMOVALS:
The successor of each member so appointed shall serve for a term of five (5)
years. Vacancies shall be filled by the Village President, subject to
confirmation by the Village Board, for the unexpired term. Members may be
removed by the Village President for any cause after written charges have been
filed and after a public hearing has been held if demanded by the member so
charged. (1987 Code § 2-2-1)
10-3A-3: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Officers:
      1.   Chair: One of the members of the Board shall be designated by the
Village President, with the consent of the Village Board, as Chair of said
Board and shall hold office as Chair until a successor is appointed. The Chair,
or in his absence, the Acting Chair, may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses.
      2.   Clerk: One of the members of the Board shall act as Clerk for the
Board and shall make and keep a record of all its meetings and official acts.
(1987 Code § 2-2-2)
   B.   Meetings: All meetings of the Board shall be held on the call of the
Chair and at such other times as the Board may determine. There shall be at
least fifteen (15) days', but not more than thirty (30) days', notice of the
time and place of such meeting published in a paper of general circulation in
the Village; said notice to contain a statement of the particular purpose of
such meeting and a brief description of the location of the property or
properties under consideration of such meeting. All meetings of the Board shall
be open to the public. (1987 Code §§ 2-2-3, 2-2-8)
   C.   Rules Of Procedure: The Board shall adopt its own rules of procedure, a
copy of which and all amendments thereto shall be filed in the Office of the
Village Clerk.
   D.   Minutes:
      1.   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of
each member upon every question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating
such fact, and shall also keep records of its examinations and other official
actions. Findings of fact shall be included in the minutes on each case and the
reasons for granting or denying each application shall be specified. Every
rule, regulation and every order, requirement, decision or determination of the
Board shall immediately be filed in the Office of the Village Clerk and shall
be a public record.
      2.   The minutes of the Board shall be open to public examination at
reasonable hours. (1987 Code § 2-2-8)
10-3A-4: APPEALS:
   A.   Authority: An appeal may be taken to the Board of Appeals by any person
or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the Village affected by a
decision of the building inspector or Code Enforcement Officer.
   B.   Procedure: Such appeal shall be taken within forty five (45) days of
the action complained of by filing with the building inspector or Code
Enforcement Officer and with the Board of Appeals a notice of appeal,
specifying the grounds thereof. The building inspector or Code Enforcement
Officer shall forthwith transmit to the Board of Appeals all of the papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
   C.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal shall stay all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the building inspector or Code
Enforcement Officer certifies to the Board of Appeals, after the notice of
appeal has been filed with him, that by reason of facts stated in the
certificate, a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life or
property; in which case, the proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by
a restraining order which may be granted by the Board of Appeals, or by a court
of record on application on notice to the building inspector or Code
Enforcement Officer and on due cause shown. (1987 Code § 2-2-5; amd. 2018 Code)
   D.   Hearing And Decision: The Board shall select a reasonable time and
place for the hearing and give notice thereof to the parties and shall render a
decision on the appeal without unreasonable delay. Any person may appear and
testify at the hearing, either in person or by duly authorized agent or
attorney. (1987 Code § 2-2-5)
   E.   Fees: A fee of five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a meeting without a
special Board meeting afterward or eight hundred dollars ($800.00) for a
meeting with a special Board meeting afterward shall be paid to the Village
Clerk at the time the notice of appeal is filed, which the Clerk shall pay over
to the Village Treasurer to the credit of the General Revenue Fund of the
Village. (Ord. 12-6, 2-6-2012)
10-3A-5: DUTIES AND JURISDICTION:
   A.   Appeals Generally:
      1.   The Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals from and review
any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the building
inspector or Code Enforcement Officer.
      2.   The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify or
amend, the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from to the
extent and in the manner that the Board may decide to be fitting and proper in
the premises, and to that end, the Board shall have all the powers of the
building inspector or Code Enforcement Officer.
   B.   Amendments: The Board, on its own initiative or at the request of any
person, including the building inspector or Code Enforcement Officer, may
recommend to the Village Board after public hearing, amendments to the building
title of this Code and this title. (1987 Code § 2-2-6; amd. 2018 Code)
   C.   Exceptions And Variances:
      1.   The Board of Appeals shall also hold public hearings on, and when in
harmony with the general purpose and intent of this title, may authorize the
following exceptions to the terms thereof:
         a.   The extension of a district where the boundary line of a district
divides a lot in a single ownership at the time of the effective date hereof.
         b.   Interpretation of the provisions of this title in such a way as
to carry out the intent and purpose of the plan, as shown upon the map fixing
the several districts adopted by reference in this title where the street
layout actually on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on the
map.
         c.   The erection and use of a building or the use of premises in any
location for a railroad or public service corporation for public utility
purposes which the Board determines reasonably necessary for the public
convenience or welfare. (1987 Code § 2-2-6)
         d.   The reconstruction of a nonconforming building which has been
damaged by explosion, fire, act of nature or the public enemy to the extent of
more than sixty percent (60%) of its fair market value, where the Board finds
some compelling necessity requiring continuance of the nonconforming use and
the primary purpose of continuing the nonconforming use is not to continue a
monopoly. (1987 Code § 2-2-6; amd. 2018 Code)
         e.   The waiving or reduction of the parking and loading requirements
in any of the districts whenever the character or use of the building is such
as to make unnecessary the full provision of parking or loading facilities, or
where such regulations would impose an unreasonable hardship upon the use of
the lot, as contrasted with merely granting an advantage or a convenience.
         f.   Extension of the period within which a nonconforming commercial
or industrial use is to be removed from a dwelling district, when the owner or
owners can furnish substantial proof that the building was so extensively
remodeled, reconstructed or structurally altered after the original
construction that it practically resulted in a new building, but such extension
of the period shall not exceed forty (40) years from the date of such
remodeling, reconstruction or structural alteration.
      2.   Where, by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape of
a specific piece of property, or by reason of exceptional topographical
conditions or other extraordinary or exceptional situations, or condition of a
specific piece of property, the strict application of this title results in
peculiar and exceptional practical difficulties, and clearly demonstrates
hardship upon the owner of such property, and not a mere inconvenience to such
owner, the Board of Appeals may authorize, after public hearing, a variation in
the strict application of the terms of this title. In its consideration of the
standards of practical difficulties or particular hardship, the Board of
Appeals shall require evidence that:
         a.   The property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if
permitted to be used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations in
that zone;
         b.   That plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances, which
circumstances do not apply to other adjoining or nearby property; and
         c.   The variation, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of the locality.
A variation shall be permitted only if the evidence, in the judgment of the
Board of Appeals, sustains each of the three (3) conditions herein enumerated.
(1987 Code § 2-2-6)
      3.   In the event a person requests a variance meeting, a Zoning Board of
Appeals Public Notice will be published in the daily newspaper as required by
subsection D of this section and shall be the sole responsibility of the person
requesting the variance meeting. The person requesting the variance meeting
shall also post said notice in two (2) prominent places in the Village and give
personal notification to the neighboring property owners who may be affected by
said variance. No meeting shall proceed without certification of publication
from the newspaper and signatures of neighboring property owners being
presented to the Board of Appeals prior to requested hearing. (Ord. 12-6, 2-6-
2012)
      4.   Use the following sheets are attached to ordinance 12-6 which is on
file in the Office of the Village Clerk: (Ord. 12-6, 2-6-2012; amd. 2018 Code)
         a.   Petition for Zoning Board of Appeals Meeting.
         b.   Zoning Board of Appeals Public Notice Sheet. (Ord. 12-6, 2-6-
2012)
      5.   In considering all appeals and all proposed variations of this
title, the Board shall, before making any variations from this title in a
specific case, first determine that the proposed variation will not impair an
adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property or unreasonably increase
the congestion in public streets, increase the danger of fire, endanger the
public safety, unreasonably diminish or impair established property values
within the surrounding area or in any other respect impair the public health,
safety, comfort, morals or welfare of the inhabitants of the Village. (1987
Code § 2-2-6)
   D.   Hearing And Notice: Notice of the time and place of the public hearings
before the Board of Appeals shall be given by publishing at least once, not
more than thirty (30) days nor less than fifteen (15) days before the hearings,
in one or more newspapers published in, or of general circulation in, the
County. This notice shall contain the particular location for which the
variation is requested as well as a brief statement of what the proposed
variation consists. Any notice required by this subsection need not include a
metes and bounds legal description of the location for which the variation is
requested; provided, that the notice includes: 1) the common street address or
addresses; and 2) the property index number ("PIN") or numbers of all the
parcels of real property contained in the area for which the variation is
requested.
   E.   Voting: The concurring vote of four (4) members of the Board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the
building inspector or Code Enforcement Officer, or to decide in favor of the
applicant any matter upon which it is authorized by this title to render a
decision.
   F.   Restrictions On Powers: Nothing herein contained shall be construed to
give or grant to the Board the power or authority to alter or change this title
or the District Map, such power and authority being reserved to the Village
Board of Trustees.
   G.   Information To Building Inspector Or Code Enforcement Officer: A
duplicate of all findings shall be rendered to the building inspector or Code
Enforcement Officer who thereafter shall follow such determination or
interpretation until it is legally overruled by the Board, by the court or by
amendment by the Village Board. The Board shall adopt its own rules and
procedure not in conflict with this title or any other provision of this Code,
or with the Illinois Statutes. (1987 Code § 2-2-6; amd. 2018 Code)
10-3A-6: VALIDITY OF BOARD ORDERS:
No order of the Board permitting the erection or alteration of a building shall
be valid for a period longer than one year, unless a building permit for such
erection or alteration is obtained within such period, and such erection or
alteration is started and proceeds to completion in accordance with the terms
of such permit. (1987 Code § 2-2-7)
10-3A-7: LIMITATIONS ON BOARD AUTHORITY:
Nothing herein contained shall be construed to give or grant to the Zoning
Board of Appeals the power or authority to alter or change this title or any
use district made a part of the Zoning Map, such power and authority being
reserved by the Village Board, and the Zoning Board shall not have any power or
authority, with respect to any alterations or changes of this title, except to
make recommendations to the Village Board in such specific cases as may
properly come before the Zoning Board. (1987 Code § 5-13-1)
10-3A-8: COMPENSATION:
Each member of the Board of Appeals shall receive the sum of fifteen dollars
($15.00) per meeting as his compensation for his attendance to each meeting of
said Board of Appeals payable at the end of each fiscal year. (1987 Code § 2-2-
4)
10-3A-9: EXPENDITURES:
Expenses incurred by the Zoning Board of Appeals are to be itemized and shall
be borne by the Village. (1987 Code § 2-2-8)
ARTICLE B. SPECIAL USES
SECTION:
10-3B-1: Purpose
10-3B-2: Permitted Special Uses
10-3B-3: Conditions Of Approval
10-3B-4: Procedure
10-3B-5: Termination And Nontransferability Of Permit
10-3B-1: PURPOSE:
The principal objective of this title is to provide for an orderly arrangement
of compatible building and land uses, and for the proper location of all types
of uses required for the social and economic welfare of the Village. To
accomplish this objective, each type and kind of use is classified as permitted
in one or more of the various districts established by this title. However, in
addition to those uses specifically classified and permitted in each district,
there are certain additional uses which it may be necessary to allow because of
their unusual characteristics or the service they provide the public. These
"special uses" require particular consideration as to their proper location in
relation to adjacent established or intended uses, or to the planned
development of the community. The conditions controlling the location and
operation of such "special uses" are established in the following provisions of
this article. (1987 Code § 5-12-1)
10-3B-2: PERMITTED SPECIAL USES:
The Village Board shall have the authority to permit, by special ordinance, the
following uses of land or structures, or both, subject to conditions contained
herein if it finds that the proposed location and establishment of any such use
will be desirable or necessary to the public convenience or welfare and will be
harmonious and compatible with other uses adjacent to and in the vicinity of
the selected site or sites:
                                        In any use district subject to the
                                        Civil Aeronautics Administration
Airport, landing field or landing strip certifying that a new or reoriented
                                        runway will not interfere with the
                                        flight pattern of any established
                                        airport, landing field or landing strip
Areas for the dumping or disposal of    In any use district, provided the
trash or garbage                        sanitary landfill method is used
Auditorium, stadium, arena, armory,
gymnasium, and other similar places for In any use district
public events
                                        In an R-1 Residential District,
Barbershop and/or beauty parlor         provided it is a single chair, owner
                                        operated shop.
Bus terminal, railroad passenger
station, freight terminal or other      In any use district
public transportation terminal
facilities
Clinic or medical center                In any use district
Dwelling unit in a previously existing
business building, not in any new       In any B-1 District
construction
Extraction of gravel, sand or other raw In any use district
materials
Golf courses, public or private         In any use district
Hospitals or sanitariums, public or     In any use district other than an M
private                                 district
Institutions for the care of the        In any use district other than an M
mentally challenged, public or private  district
Municipal or privately owned recreation In any use district
building or community center
Nursery school or day nursery           In any R-3 or B-1 District
                                        In any R-3 District, provided there is
Off street parking areas and garages    a need for this facility and that no
                                        appropriate site is available in nearby
                                        business or manufacturing districts
Police station or fire station          In any use district
Public buildings including art gallery,
Post Office, library or similar         In any R-3 or B-2 District
structure
Public or private park or playground    In any use district
Public or privately owned and operated
fairgrounds, permanent carnivals,       In any B-2 or M District
"kiddie parks", or other similar
amusement centers
Public utility facilities, i.e.,
filtration plant, water reservoir or    In any use district other than the B-
pumping station, heat or power plant,   2 or M District where such facilities
transformer station and other similar   are permissive uses
facilities
Radio and television transmitting or
antenna towers (commercial) and other
electronic equipment requiring outdoor  In any B or M district
structures and including antenna towers
used for the sending of private
messages
                                        In any R-3 or B District; provided,
                                        that when located in a business
                                        district, such uses shall be
Rest homes and nursing homes            established above the first floor when
                                        located in a building constructed for a
                                        business use. A building originally
                                        constructed for residential use may be
                                        used in whole or in part
Schools: elementary, high and college,  In any R district, but not including
public or private                       trade or commercial school operated for
                                        profit
Telephone exchange, antenna towers and  In any R-3 District in addition to the
other outdoor equipment essential to    B and M districts where such facilities
the operation of the exchange           are permissive uses
Trailer camps (house trailers or mobile In any R-3, B-2 or M District
homes) or trailer parks
 
(1987 Code § 5-12-2; amd. Ord. 1988-1, 2-8-1988; Ord., 6-21-1993; 2018 Code)
10-3B-3: CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL:
The Planning Commission may recommend, and the Village Board may impose, such
restrictions upon the height, bulk and area of lot coverage of any structure so
approved for special use as may be reasonable under the particular
circumstances; provided, that such restrictions and stipulations shall not be
more restrictive than the requirements established for the district in which
such structure is proposed to be located, or parking facilities as well as off
street parking, loading and unloading spaces may also be stipulated in the
order permitting the special use. (1987 Code § 5-12-3)
10-3B-4: PROCEDURE:
The procedure to be followed in considering application for special use shall
be as follows:
   A.   Application: An application, verified by the owner or authorized agent
of the owner of the property involved, shall be filed with the Village Clerk
for the attention of the Planning Commission, upon a form prescribed therefor,
which shall contain or be accompanied by all required information.
   B.   Public Hearing: Upon receipt of such verified application, the Village
Clerk shall notify the Chair of the Planning Commission, or in his absence, the
Vice Chair, who shall give notice of a public hearing in the same manner as
provided for hearings on the reclassification of property as contained in
subsection 10-3-3C of this chapter. A record of pertinent information presented
at the public hearing shall be made and maintained by the Planning Commission
as part of the permanent record relative to the application.
   C.   Decisions: The Planning Commission shall then make its findings and
recommendations to the Village Board within thirty (30) days following the date
of public hearing on each application. The Village Board may then authorize a
special use as defined herein by specific ordinance, provided the evidence that
is presented is such as to establish beyond a reasonable doubt:
      1.   That the proposed use at the particular location requested is
necessary or desirable to provide a service of a facility which is in the
interest of public convenience, and will contribute to the general welfare of
the neighborhood or community;
      2.   That such use will not, under the circumstances of the particular
case, be detrimental to the health, safety, morals or general welfare of
persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to property values or
improvements in the vicinity; and
      3.   That the proposed use will comply with the regulations and
conditions specified in this title for such use, and with the stipulations and
conditions made a part of the authorization granted by the Village Board. (1987
Code § 5-12-4)
10-3B-5: TERMINATION AND NONTRANSFERABILITY OF PERMIT:
Any special permit granted under the provisions of this article shall lapse if
not used for a period of one year. Thereafter, reapplication must be made.
Special permits granted under this article shall not be transferable. (Ord.
1988-1, 2-8-1988)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL ZONING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Building Height, Bulk And Lot Coverage
10-4-2: Lot Dimension And Area
10-4-3: Location Of Buildings
10-4-4: Buildings Under Construction
10-4-5: Dwellings On A Zoning Lot
10-4-6: Accessory Buildings
10-4-1: BUILDING HEIGHT, BULK AND LOT COVERAGE:
   A.   Building Height: No building shall be erected, reconstructed, relocated
or structurally altered so as to have a greater height or bulk, a higher
percentage of lot coverage or smaller open space about it than permissible
under the limitations set forth herein for the district in which such building
is located; except, that parapet walls, chimneys, cooling towers, elevator
bulkheads, fire towers, stacks, stage towers or scenery lofts, and necessary
mechanical appurtenances shall be permitted to exceed the maximum height
provision when erected in accordance with all other ordinances of the Village.
   B.   Building Bulk: No space allocated to a building or dwelling group for
the purpose of complying with the side, rear or front yard, or court, or other
open space or lot area requirements of this title shall hereafter, by reason of
a change in ownership or for any other reason, be used to satisfy the yard,
court, open space or lot area requirements of any other building or dwelling
group.
   C.   Lot Coverage:
      1.   Any open terrace, but not including a roofed over porch or terrace,
may occupy a front yard, provided the unoccupied portion of the front yard has
a depth of not less than fifteen feet (15'). A one-story bay window may project
into a front yard not more than three feet (3').
      2.   No usable open space or off street parking space or loading space
existing or provided hereafter for any building shall be reduced below the
minimum requirements hereinafter set forth for such usable open space, parking
space or loading space, nor further reduced if already less than said minimum
requirements. (1987 Code §
5-3-1)
10-4-2: LOT DIMENSION AND AREA:
   A.   When two (2) or more parcels of land, each of which lacks adequate area
and dimension to qualify for a permitted use under the requirements of the use
district in which it is located, are contiguous and are held in one ownership,
they shall be used as one zoning lot for such use.
   B.   Any single lot or parcel of land held in one ownership which was of
record at the effective date hereof, that does not meet the requirements for
minimum lot width and area, may be utilized for a permitted use; provided, that
yards, courts or usable open space are not less than seventy five percent (75%)
of the minimum required dimensions or area. (1987 Code §
5-3-2)
10-4-3: LOCATION OF BUILDINGS:
Unless as otherwise provided in this title, every building shall be constructed
or erected upon a lot or parcel of land which abuts upon a public street or
permanent easement of access to a public street, which easement shall have a
minimum width of thirty feet (30'), unless an easement of lesser width was on
record prior to the effective date hereof. (Ord. 13-1, 5-6-2013)
10-4-4: BUILDINGS UNDER CONSTRUCTION:
Nothing in this title shall be deemed to require any change in the plans,
construction or designated use of any building upon which actual construction
was lawfully begun prior to the effective date hereof and upon which building
actual construction has been diligently carried on; and provided, further, that
such building shall be completed within one year from the effective date
hereof. (1987 Code §
5-3-4)
10-4-5: DWELLINGS ON A ZONING LOT:
Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered to provide dwelling
units shall be located on a zoning lot as herein defined, and in no case shall
there be more than one such building on one zoning lot; except, that in a two-
story garage with living quarters upon the second floor, such quarters may be
occupied by a servant (and his family) of the family occupying the main
structure. There may also be constructed a guesthouse (without kitchen) or
rooms for guests within an accessory building, provided such facilities are
used for the occasional housing of guests of the occupants of the main
structure and not for permanent occupancy by others as a housekeeping unit.
(1987 Code §
5-3-5)
10-4-6: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
   A.   An accessory building shall not be erected prior to the establishment
or construction of the principal building to which it is accessory, or to which
it is intended to be accessory. (1987 Code §
5-3-6)
   B.   The following accessory buildings may not be located nearer to the
following lot lines:
      1.   Shed: Three feet (3') off any lot line.
      2.   Garage:
         a.   Ten feet (10') off the back lot line.
         b.   Five feet (5') off the side lot lines. (2018 Code)
   C.   No accessory building shall be located on a reversed corner lot beyond
the front yard required on the adjacent lot to the rear, nor be located nearer
than five feet (5') to the side lot line of the adjacent lot. (1987 Code §
5-3-6)
   D.   1. In a residential district, any accessory building in excess of one
hundred twenty (120) square feet shall be constructed according to the
following specifications: (Ord. 14-4, 8-5-2014; amd. 2018 Code)
         a.   Maximum size: Nine hundred sixty (960) square feet, and must be
square or rectangular in shape.
         b.   Concrete floor, with appropriate footings and four inches (4")
rat wall.
         c.   Maximum door height: Ten feet (10').
         d.   Maximum building height: Nineteen feet (19') to top of peak of
building. (Ord. 14-4, 8-5-2014)
         e.   Maximum side wall height: Eleven feet (11'). (Ord. 14-4, 8-5-
2014; amd. 2018 Code)
         f.   Building may have either shingle or metal roofing material.
         g.   Minimum roof pitch: 4 to 12 pitch.
      2.   Any variation from the construction guidelines above will have to be
appealed to the Zoning Board of Appeals by filing a petition for an appeal
(variance) with the Village Clerk. (Ord. 14-4, 8-5-2014)
CHAPTER 5
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
10-5-1: Districts Established
10-5-2: Zoning Map
10-5-3: Determination Of District Boundaries
10-5-4: Zoning Of Public Ways
10-5-5: Zoning Of New Or Annexed Land
10-5-6: Rezoning Of Public And Semi-Public Areas
10-5-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
In order to carry out the purposes and provisions of this title, the Village is
hereby divided into the following districts:
Residential districts:
R-1 One-Family Dwelling District
R-2 Two-Family Dwelling District
R-3 Multiple-Family Dwelling District
Business districts:
B-1 Limited Retail Business District
B-2 General Retail and Wholesale Business District
Manufacturing districts:
M-1 Limited Manufacturing District
M-2 General Manufacturing District
MHP Mobile Home Park District (1987 Code §
5-4-1)
10-5-2: ZONING MAP:
The locations and boundaries of the districts established herein are shown upon
the Zoning Map, which is hereby incorporated into this title by reference. The
Zoning Map, together with all notations, references and other information shown
thereon, and all amendments thereto, shall be a part of this title and shall
have the same force and effect as if the Zoning Map, together with all
notations, references and other information shown thereon, were fully set forth
and described herein. (1987 Code §
5-4-2)
10-5-3: DETERMINATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
Wherever any uncertainty exists as to the boundary of any use district as shown
on the Zoning Map incorporated herein, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   Where district boundary lines are indicated as following streets,
alleys or similar rights-of-way, they shall be construed as following the
centerlines thereof;
   B.   Where district boundary lines are indicated as approximately following
lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be such boundaries; and
   C.   Where a lot held in one ownership and of record at the effective date
hereof is divided by a district boundary line, the entire lot shall be
construed to be within the less restricted district; provided, that this
construction shall not apply if it increases the area of the less restricted
portion of the lot by more than twenty percent (20%). (1987 Code §
5-4-3)
10-5-4: ZONING OF PUBLIC WAYS:
All streets, alleys, public ways and railroad rights-of-way, if not otherwise
specifically designated, shall be deemed to be in the same use district as the
property immediately abutting upon such alleys, streets, public ways and
railroad rights-of-way. Where the centerline of a street, alley, public way or
railroad right-of-way serves as a district boundary, the zoning of such area,
unless otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to be the same as
that of the abutting property up to such centerline. (1987 Code §
5-4-4)
10-5-5: ZONING OF NEW OR ANNEXED LAND:
Submerged land heretofore reclaimed or which may be reclaimed hereafter, and
land heretofore annexed or which may be annexed to the Village hereafter, and
which is not shown on the Zoning Map made a part of this title, shall be
classified in the R-1 One- Family Dwelling District until such time as the
Village Board designates the permitted use of the land and in accordance with
the provisions of this title. (1987 Code §
5-4-5)
10-5-6: REZONING OF PUBLIC AND SEMI-PUBLIC AREAS:
An area indicated on the Zoning Map as a public park, recreation area, public
school site, cemetery or other similar open space shall not be used for any
other purpose than that designated; and when the use of the area is
discontinued, it shall automatically be zoned to the most restricted adjoining
district until appropriate zoning is authorized by the Village Board within
three (3) months after the date of application filed for rezoning. (1987 Code §
5-4-6)
CHAPTER 6
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Purpose
10-6-1: PURPOSE:
The residential districts set forth herein are established in order to protect
public health, and promote public safety, convenience, comfort, morals,
prosperity and welfare. These general goals include, among others, the
following specific purposes:
   A.   To protect residential areas against fire, explosion, noxious fumes,
offensive noises, smoke, vibrations, dust, odors, heat, glare and other
objectionable factors;
   B.   To protect residential areas to the extent possible and appropriate in
each area against unduly heavy motor vehicle traffic, especially through
traffic, and to alleviate congestion by promoting off street parking;
   C.   To protect residential areas against undue congestion of public streets
and other public facilities by controlling the density of population through
regulation of the bulk of buildings;
   D.   To protect and promote the public health and comfort by providing for
ample light and air to buildings and windows thereof;
   E.   To promote public comfort and welfare by providing for usable open
space on the same zoning lot with residential development;
   F.   To provide sufficient space in appropriate locations to meet the
probable need for necessary and desirable services in the vicinity of
residences, which increase safety and amenity for residents and which do not
exert objectionable influences; and
   G.   To promote the best use and development of residential land in
accordance with a Comprehensive Land Use Plan, to promote stability of
residential development and protect the character and desirable development and
to promote and protect the value of land and improvements and so strengthen the
economic base of the Village. (1987 Code §
5-5-1)
ARTICLE A. R-1 ONE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6A-1: Permitted Uses
10-6A-2: Building Height
10-6A-3: Lot Size
10-6A-4: Yard Areas
10-6A-5: Permitted Obstructions
10-6A-1: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the R-1 District:
Accessory buildings, as defined herein, and as regulated by section
10-4-6 of this title.
Churches.
Convents, monasteries, rectories or parish houses, to be occupied by not more
than fifteen (15) persons.
Home occupations as defined in section
10-2-3 of this title.
Off street parking facilities, as required or permitted by chapter 9 of this
title.
One-family detached dwellings.
Signs, as regulated by chapter 10 of this title.
Temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes for a period not to
exceed one year.
Transitional uses: two-family dwellings; principal offices of physicians,
dentists, lawyers, architects, real estate brokers and other professional
occupations, when conducted in a residential structure used primarily as a home
and when located on lots having a side line adjoining a lot in a business or
manufacturing district, or on lots having a side lot line adjacent to a
railroad right-of-way or directly across a street or alley from a business or
manufacturing district; provided, that:
   A.   The lot on which the transitional use is located does not extend more
than seventy five feet (75') from the adjoining business or manufacturing
district, or more than one hundred twenty feet (120') in depth from the street
line in cases where the lot does not adjoin but faces a B or M district;
   B.   There is a minimum lot area of six thousand (6,000) square feet for
each two-family dwelling; and
   C.   The home occupations are conducted in conjunction with the use of a
dwelling unit as a home by the occupant thereof, with not more than two (2)
employees other than members of the related family, and that the members of the
related family and the residential character of the exterior of the dwelling is
not changed. Medical clinics are not permitted or included.
Truck gardening and other horticultural uses where no building is involved and
when no sale of products is conducted on the premises. (1987 Code § 5-5A-1)
10-6A-2: BUILDING HEIGHT:
The maximum height of buildings permitted shall be as follows:
   A.   One-family detached dwellings: Twenty five feet (25') and not over two
and one-half (21/2) stories.
   B.   Churches: Seventy five feet (75') for towers or steeples, but not more
than forty five feet (45') for the main structure. (1987 Code § 5-5A-2)
10-6A-3: LOT SIZE:
   A.   One-Family Detached Dwellings: Every one-family detached dwelling
hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be on a lot having an area of
not less than seven thousand two hundred (7,200) square feet, and a width at
the established building line of not less than sixty feet (60'), except as
provided in section
10-4-2 of this title.
   B.   Churches, Convents And Monasteries: Churches, convents and monasteries
hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be on a lot having an area of
not less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet and a width at the building
line of not less than seventy five feet (75'). (1987 Code § 5-5A-3)
10-6A-4: YARD AREAS:
No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the following yards are
provided and maintained in connection with such building, structure or
enlargement: (1987 Code § 5-5A-4)
   A.   Front Yard: Each lot upon which a dwelling is constructed shall have a
front yard of not less than thirty feet (30'). Where lots comprising forty
percent (40%) of the frontage between two (2) intersecting streets are
developed with buildings having front yards with a variation of more than
fifteen feet (15') in depth, the average of such front yards shall establish
the minimum front yard depth of the entire frontage. In no case shall a front
yard of more than fifty feet (50') be required. (Ord. 13-1, 5-6-2013)
   B.   Side Yards:
      1.   Dwellings: On each lot upon which a dwelling is constructed, there
shall be a side yard on each side of not less than five feet (5').
         a.   Interior And Corner Lots: The combined total of the side yards
for interior lots shall not be less than twelve feet (12') and the combined
total of the side yards for corner lots shall not be less than fifteen feet
(15').
         b.   Additional Corner Lot Provisions: On corner lots, there shall be
maintained a side yard of not less than ten feet (10') on the side adjacent to
the street which intersects the street upon which building or structure
maintains frontage, and in the case of a reversed corner lot, there shall be
maintained a setback from the side street of not less than fifty percent (50%)
of the front yard required on the lots in the rear of such corner lots. Such
setback need not exceed fifteen feet (15'). No accessory building on said
reversed corner lot shall project beyond the front yard required on the
adjacent lots to the rear, nor be located nearer than five feet (5') to the
side lot line of said adjacent lot.
      2.   Churches: On lots upon which a church is constructed or extensions
made to an existing church, there shall be a side yard of not less than ten
feet (10') on each side of the main structure and a combined total of side
yards of not less than twenty five feet (25').
   C.   Rear Yard: Every lot or parcel of land upon which a building is
constructed shall have a rear yard of not less than thirty feet (30'). (1987
Code § 5-5A-4)
10-6A-5: PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS:
The following shall not be considered as obstructions when located within or
over required yards:
Arbors and trellises.
Awnings and canopies.
Breezeways and open porches (rear yards only).
Chimneys, not exceeding two percent (2%) of the width of the yard.
Fences or walls (rear yards only).
Open parking areas.
Open terraces.
Steps not over four feet (4') in height. (1987 Code § 5-5A-5; amd. Ord., 7-3-
1990)
ARTICLE B. R-2 TWO-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6B-1: Permitted Uses
10-6B-2: Building Height
10-6B-3: Lot Size
10-6B-4: Yard Areas
10-6B-5: Permitted Obstructions
10-6B-1: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the R-2 District:
Any use permitted in the R-1 District.
Two-family dwellings.
Any transitional use permitted in an R-1 District and including three- and
four-family dwellings when located on lots having a side lot line adjoining or
when facing a business or manufacturing district or a railroad right-of- way,
provided the building is located on a lot having a width of not less than sixty
feet (60') and has an area of not less than two thousand (2,000) square feet
per dwelling unit. (1987 Code § 5-5B-1)
10-6B-2: BUILDING HEIGHT:
The same regulations shall apply as permitted in the R-1 One- Family Dwelling
District. (1987 Code § 5-5B-2)
10-6B-3: LOT SIZE:
   A.   One-Family Dwellings: The same regulations shall apply as required or
permitted in the R-1 One-Family Dwelling District.
   B.   Two-Family Dwellings: Every two-family dwelling hereafter erected or
structurally altered shall be on the lot having an area of not less than seven
thousand two hundred (7,200) square feet, and a width at the building line of
not less than sixty feet (60'), except as provided in section
10-4-2 of this title.
   C.   Converted Dwellings: An existing one-family dwelling located on a lot
of less area than required in this section may be converted to a two-family
dwelling without increasing the lot size; provided, that the building is not
enlarged beyond its present outside dimensions and that there is compliance
with all other regulations of this title. Additions may be made to an existing
building only when there can be compliance with lot size and yard requirements
of this section.
   D.   Churches, Convents And Monasteries: The same regulations shall apply as
required in the R-1 One-Family Dwelling District. (1987 Code § 5-5B-3)
10-6B-4: YARD AREAS:
No building shall be erected or enlarged unless the following yards are
provided and maintained in connection with such building, structure or
enlargement:
   A.   Front Yard: The same regulations shall apply as required in the R-
1 One-Family Dwelling District.
   B.   Side Yards:
      1.   One-Family Detached Dwellings: The same regulations shall apply as
required in the R-1 District. (1987 Code § 5-5B-4)
      2.   Two-Family Dwellings: The same regulations shall apply as required
in one-family detached dwellings as provided in this subsection B. (1987 Code §
5-5B-4; amd. 2018 Code)
      3.   Converted Dwellings: An existing one-family dwelling located on a
lot having side yards of less width than required herein may be converted to a
two-family dwelling; provided, that the building is not enlarged beyond its
present outside dimensions.
   C.   Rear Yard: Every lot or parcel of land upon which a building is
constructed shall have a rear yard of not less than thirty feet (30'). (1987
Code § 5-5B-4)
10-6B-5: PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS:
The same regulations shall apply as required in the R-1 One- Family Dwelling
District. (1987 Code § 5-5B-5)
ARTICLE C. R-3 MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6C-1: Permitted Uses
10-6C-2: Building Height
10-6C-3: Lot Size
10-6C-4: Yard Areas
10-6C-5: Permitted Obstructions
10-6C-1: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the R-3 District:
Any use permitted in the R-2 Two-Family Dwelling District.
Boarding and lodging houses.
Multiple-family dwellings and apartments.
Offices of physicians, dentists, lawyers, architects, real estate brokers and
other professional occupations, including funeral homes when conducted in a
residential structure; provided the residential character of the building is
not altered extensively.
One-family row dwelling (party wall type) with not more than six (6) dwelling
units in a building.
Signs, as defined and regulated in chapter 10 of this title.
Tourist homes having not more than five (5) rooms for transient guests. (1987
Code § 5-5C-1)
10-6C-2: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building shall hereafter be erected or structurally altered to exceed three
(3) stories nor shall it exceed forty five feet (45') in height. (1987 Code §
5-5C-2)
10-6C-3: LOT SIZE:
   A.   Generally: No building hereafter erected or structurally altered in the
R-3 Multiple-Family Dwelling District shall have a total lot area of less than
seven thousand two hundred (7,200) square feet, nor have a total lot width of
less than sixty feet (60'); except, that one-family dwellings may be erected or
structurally altered on lots having an area of not less than four thousand
(4,000) square feet and a width at the established building line of not less
than fifty feet (50').
   B.   More Than Two Dwellings: Every building hereafter erected or
structurally altered as a multiple-family dwelling of more than two (2)
dwelling units shall provide a lot area per dwelling unit of one thousand five
hundred (1,500) square feet.
   C.   One-Family Row Houses: One-family row houses hereafter erected or
structurally altered shall have a total lot area of two thousand (2,000) square
feet per dwelling unit; except, that corner and end dwelling units of a row
unit building shall have not less than two thousand five hundred (2,500) square
feet of total lot area. (1987 Code § 5-5C-3)
10-6C-4: YARD AREAS:
No building or structure nor the enlargement of any building or structure shall
be hereafter erected or maintained unless the following yards and lot areas are
provided and maintained in connection with such structure or enlargement.
   A.   Front Yard:
      1.   For multiple-family dwellings other than one-family row dwellings,
there shall be a front yard of not less than twenty feet (20').
      2.   For row dwellings, two-family dwellings and one-family dwellings,
the same regulations shall apply as required in the R-1 District.
   B.   Side Yards:
      1.   Multiple-Family Dwellings:
         a.   Interior Lots: On interior lots, there shall be a side yard on
each side of a principal building of not less than five feet (5') and a
combined total of side yards of not less than fifteen feet (15') for all
multiple-family dwellings of not more than two (2) stories in height. For each
additional story added above the two (2) stories, the side yard on each side of
the main building shall be increased two feet (2') in width.
         b.   Corner Lots: On corner lots, the side yard on the intersecting
street side shall not be less than ten feet (10'), except in the case of a
reversed corner lot, where there shall be a side yard on the street side of the
corner lot of not less than fifty percent (50%) of the front yard required in
the lots in the rear of such corner lot. No accessory building on said reversed
corner lot shall project beyond the front yard line required on the adjacent
lot to the rear nor be located nearer than five feet (5') to the side lot line
of such adjacent lot.
      2.   One-Family Dwellings: The same regulations shall apply as required
in the R-1 District. (1987 Code § 5-5C-4)
      3.   Two-Family Dwellings: The same regulations shall apply as required
in the R-2 District.
      4.   Converted Dwellings: The same regulations shall apply as required in
the R-2 District.
      5.   One-Family Row Dwellings: The same regulations as govern side yards
of multiple-family dwellings in this subsection; except, that there may be not
less than fifteen feet (15') between adjacent row buildings. (1987 Code § 5-5C-
4; amd. 2018 Code)
   C.   Rear Yard:
      1.   Multiple-Family Dwellings: For multiple-family dwellings, other than
one-family row dwellings, there shall be a rear yard of not less than twenty
five feet (25') for interior lots nor less than fifteen feet (15') for corner
lots.
      2.   Other Dwellings: For other type dwellings, the same rear yard
regulations shall apply as required in the R-1 District.
   D.   Courts:
      1.   Inner Courts: No inner court or courts completely surrounded on all
sides by a building shall be permitted.
      2.   Outer Courts: Outer courts are permitted, provided the depth of the
court is no greater than the width of the court. (1987 Code § 5-5C-4)
10-6C-5: PERMITTED OBSTRUCTIONS:
The same regulations shall apply as required or permitted in the R-1 District.
(1987 Code § 5-5C-5)
CHAPTER 7
BUSINESS DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Purpose
10-7-1: PURPOSE:
The business districts as set forth herein are established to protect the
public health, to promote public safety, comfort, convenience and the general
welfare and to protect the economic base of the Village and the value of
property. These general purposes include, among others, the following specific
objectives:
   A.   To promote the most desirable use of land in accordance with a well
considered plan so that adequate space is provided in appropriate locations for
the various types of business uses, thereby protecting and strengthening the
economic base of the Village;
   B.   To place in separate districts those businesses which may create noise,
odors, hazards, or unsightliness or which may generate excessive traffic;
   C.   To permit selected business uses in districts where adjacency to or
inclusion in a residential area has sufficient elements of service or
convenience to such areas to offset the disadvantage;
   D.   To encourage the grouping in appropriate locations of compatible
business uses which will tend to draw trade that is mutually interchangeable
and so promote public convenience and business prosperity and contribute to the
alleviation of traffic and pedestrian congestion; and
   E.   To provide for the establishment of off street parking facilities,
permitted and required, so as to alleviate traffic congestions and so promote
shopping convenience and business prosperity. (1987 Code §
5-6-1)
ARTICLE A. B-1 LIMITED RETAIL BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7A-1: Permitted Uses
10-7A-2: Building Height
10-7A-3: Yard Areas
10-7A-1: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the B-1 District, and all activities,
except for automobile off street parking facilities, as permitted or required
in this B-1 District shall be conducted wholly within an enclosed building:
Any use permitted in the B-2 Business District, provided it is located in the
basement or above the first floor.
Art and school supply stores.
Auto accessory stores, where there is no driveway entrance across the sidewalk
into the principal building.
Bakery shops, including the baking and processing of food products when
prepared for retail use on the premises only.
Banks and financial institutions.
Barbershops, beauty shops, chiropody, massage or similar personal service
shops.
Book and stationery stores.
Bowling alleys, dance halls, gymnasiums, meeting halls, lodge halls, fraternal
organizations and clubs; provided they are located in a basement or above the
first floor and above a business use permitted in this section, or said uses
may be located on the ground floor when the permitted business establishment
occupies street frontage except for an entranceway to the rear use.
Camera and photographic supply shops for retail sale.
Candy and ice cream shops.
Coin and philatelic stores.
Currency exchange.
Custom dressmaking, millinery, tailoring or shoe repair when conducted for
retail sales on the premises only.
Department stores.
Drugstores.
Dry cleaning and pressing establishments, when employing facilities for the
cleaning and pressing of not more than one thousand seven hundred fifty (1,750)
pounds of dry goods per day, and when using carbon tetrachloride,
perchlorethylene or other similar nonflammable solvents approved by the Fire
Department.
Dry goods stores.
Dwelling units, provided they are located above the first floor and above a
permitted business use. Dwelling units shall not be permitted on the ground
floor of business buildings or in the rear of business establishments on the
ground floor.
Electrical appliance stores and repair, but not including appliance assembly or
manufacturing.
Florist shops and conservatories for retail trade on the premises.
Food and fruit stores.
Frozen food stores.
Furniture stores and upholstery when conducted as part of the retail operations
and secondary to the main use.
Furriers, when conducted for retail trade on the premises only.
Garden supplies and seed stores.
Gift shops.
Haberdasheries.
Hardware shops.
Hobby shops.
Hotels, including dining and meeting rooms, when business uses occupy the
street frontage except for an entranceway to the hotel lobby.
Household appliance store.
Interior decorating shops, including upholstery and making of draperies, slip
covers and other similar articles, when done as part of the retail operations
and secondary to the main use.
Jewelry stores and watch repair.
Launderettes and laundromat.
Leather goods and luggage store.
Liquor stores, package goods only.
Loan offices, when located above the first floor and above a business use
permitted in this section.
Meat markets.
Musical instrument sales and repair, retail trade only.
Newsstands.
Notions stores.
Offices, business and professional, including medical clinics.
Optical, optometrists.
Paint and wallpaper stores.
Photography studios, including the developing of film and pictures when
conducted as a part of the retail business on the premises.
Plumbing showrooms without shop or repair facilities.
Postal substations (finance stations and contract stations).
Public utility collection offices.
Restaurants, tearooms or cafes, when the establishment is not of the drive-in
type where food is served to occupants remaining in motor vehicles.
Savings and loan associations.
Sewing machine sales and service.
Shoe stores.
Signs, as defined and regulated in chapter 10 of this title.
Sporting goods stores.
Stationery stores.
Telegraph offices.
Tobacco shops.
Toy stores.
Travel bureau and transportation ticket offices.
Typewriter and adding machine sales and service.
Variety stores.
Wearing apparel shops.
Any other similar type retail store not specifically listed herein, and which
has the economic compatibility with the established uses on adjoining
properties. (1987 Code § 5-6A-1; amd. 2018 Code)
10-7A-2: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building or structure shall be erected or structurally altered to exceed a
height of three (3) stories, nor shall it exceed thirty five feet (35') in
height, except in the area bounded on the north by the centerline. (1987 Code §
5-6A-2)
10-7A-3: YARD AREAS:
No building shall be constructed or enlarged unless the following yards are
provided and maintained in connection with such building:
   A.   Front Yard: No front yard shall be required when all frontage between
two (2) intersecting streets lies within this district. However, when lots
within this district are adjacent to and adjoining lots in an R district, all
of which front upon the same street between two (2) intersecting streets, there
shall be established the same front yard setback for all of the frontage as has
been established in the R district.
Exception: When existing buildings located in this district have already
established a building line at the street line or at a lesser depth than
required above, then all new buildings may conform to the same building line,
except for the first fifty feet (50') of B-1 District frontage adjacent to the
R district, whereupon there shall be provided a front setback of not less than
ten feet (10').
   B.   Side Yard:
      1.   No side yard is required, except for a corner lot whose rear lot
line abuts upon an R district or upon an alley separating this district from an
R district. There shall then be provided a side yard equal to one-half (1/2)
the front yard required in the abutting R district, but in no case, more than
ten feet (10').
      2.   The setback shall also apply if the business building fronts the
intersecting street, commonly referred to as the side street.
   C.   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard of not less than twenty feet
(20'); provided, however, that a one-story accessory building may be located
thereon, except for the five feet (5') adjacent and parallel to the rear lot
line or alley line, for the storage of motor vehicles and the unloading and
loading of vehicles under roof, as provided in chapter 9 of this title. (1987
Code § 5-6A-3)
ARTICLE B. B-2 GENERAL RETAIL AND WHOLESALE BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7B-1: Permitted Uses
10-7B-2: Building Height
10-7B-3: Yard Areas
10-7B-1: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses are permitted in the B-2 District:
Any use permitted in the B-1 District.
Agriculture implement sales and services when conducted wholly within an
enclosed building.
Air conditioning and heating sales and service.
Animal hospitals when conducted wholly within an enclosed building.
Antique shops.
Art galleries and studios.
Automobile and truck (under 11/2 tons' capacity) minor motor repair and service
shops, but not including body repair and rebuilding or painting.
Automobile sales and service, but not including automobile body repair and
rebuilding or painting of automobiles.
Automobile service stations.
Automobile washing, including the use of mechanical conveyors, blowers and
steam cleaning.
Battery and tire service stations.
Beverage, nonalcoholic, bottling and distributing.
Bicycle and motorcycle sales and repair.
Blueprinting and photostating establishments.
Boat showrooms.
Building material sales, when conducted wholly within a building.
Catering establishments.
Clubs and fraternal organizations.
Contractors' offices and shops, where no fabricating is done on the premises
and where all storage of material is within a building.
Costume rental shops.
Dwelling units, provided they are located above the first floor and above a
permitted business use. Dwelling units shall not be permitted on the ground
floor of business buildings or in the rear of business establishments on the
ground floor.
Employment agencies.
Exterminating shops.
Feed and seed stores, wholesale.
Garages, public, for storage of private passenger automobiles and commercial
vehicles under one and one-half (11/2) tons' capacity.
Glass cutting and glazing establishments.
Greenhouses, wholesale growers.
Household appliance repair shops.
Laboratories, commercial (medical, dental, research, experimental and testing),
providing no production or manufacturing of products takes place.
Locksmiths.
Mirror and glazing shops.
Motels.
Orthopedic and medical appliance stores, but not including the assembly or
manufacture of such articles.
Parcel delivery stations.
Pawnshops.
Photograph developing and processing.
Picture framing when conducted for retail trade on the premises only.
Plumbing showrooms, heating and roofing supply shops.
Poultry and rabbit killing for retail sale on premises only.
Printing, publishing and issuing of newspapers, periodicals, books, stationery
and other reading matter.
Processing or assembly limited to the following, provided that space occupied
in a building does not exceed six thousand (6,000) square feet of the total
floor and basement space, not including stairwells or elevator shafts, and
provided such processing or assembly can be conducted without noise, vibration,
odor, dust or any other condition which might be disturbing to occupants of
adjacent buildings. When manufacturing operations of the same or similar
products demand space exceeding six thousand (6,000) square feet, they shall
then be located in the M-1 Manufacturing District:
Advertising displays.
Awnings, venetian blinds and window shades.
Bakeries, wholesale.
Brushes and brooms.
Cosmetics, drugs and perfumes.
Electrical equipment appliances.
Food processing, packaging and distribution.
Jewelry.
Medical and dental supplies.
Optical goods and equipment.
Pattern making.
Products from finished materials such as plastic, bone, cloth, cork, feathers,
felt, fiber, paper, fur, glass, hair, leather, precious or semi-precious stone,
rubber, shell or yarn.
Scientific and precision instruments.
Public auction rooms.
Radio and television broadcasting stations.
Recreation places, including bowling alleys, dance halls, gymnasiums, skating
rinks, archery ranges, golf practicing ranges, miniature golf courses or other
similar places of amusement or entertainment when operated for pecuniary
profit.
Restaurants, drive-ins or car service.
Riding academies.
Schools: music, dance, business, commercial or trade.
Secondhand stores and rummage shops.
Silver plating and repair shops.
Smoking and processing of meat products.
Taverns.
Theaters, indoor.
Trailer sales or rental (house trailers or mobile homes) on an open lot or
within a building.
Undertaking establishments.
Used passenger automobile sales (used car lot) on an open lot or within a
building.
Wholesale business, excluding a building, the principal use of which is for a
storage warehouse. (1987 Code § 5-6B-1; amd. 2018 Code)
10-7B-2: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building or structure shall be erected or structurally altered to exceed a
height of six (6) stories nor shall it exceed sixty five feet (65') in height.
(1987 Code § 5-6B-2)
10-7B-3: YARD AREAS:
No building shall be constructed or enlarged unless the following yards are
provided and maintained in connection with such building:
   A.   Front Yard: No front yard shall be required when all frontage between
two (2) intersecting streets lies within this district. However, when lots
within this district are adjacent to and adjoining lots in an R district, all
of which front upon the same street between two (2) intersecting streets, there
shall be established the same front yard setback for all of the frontage as has
been established in the R district.
Exception: When existing buildings located in this district have already
established a building line at the street line or at a lesser depth than
required above, then all new buildings may conform to the same building line,
except for the fifty feet (50') of B-2 District frontage adjacent to the R
district, whereupon there shall be provided a front setback of not less than
ten feet (10').
   B.   Side Yard: The same regulations shall apply as required or permitted in
the B-1 Limited Retail Business District.
   C.   Rear Yard: The same rear yard regulations shall apply as required or
permitted in the B-1 Limited Retail Business District. (1987 Code § 5-6B-3)
CHAPTER 8
MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-8-1: Purpose
10-8-1: PURPOSE:
The manufacturing districts set forth herein are established to protect public
health, safety, comfort, convenience and the general welfare, and to protect
the economic base of the Village, as well as the value of real estate by
regulating manufacturing development in appropriate locations. These general
objectives include, among others, the following specific objectives:
   A.   To protect established residential areas, and the health of families
living therein, by restricting those nearby manufacturing activities which may
create offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust, odors, heat, glare, fire
hazards and other objectionable influences, to those areas which are
appropriate therefor;
   B.   To provide adequate space in appropriate locations for all types of
manufacturing and related activities so that the economic structure of the
community may be strengthened, and that employment opportunities may be found
in the interest of public prosperity and welfare;
   C.   To provide more space for manufacturing activities in locations
accessible to rail and highways so that the movement of raw materials, finished
products and employees can be carried on efficiently and with a minimum of
danger to public life and prosperity;
   D.   To establish proper standards of performance which will restrict
obnoxious manufacturing activities while at the same time, encourage and permit
the manufacturing activities which have adopted facilities for the processing
of finished products without adversely affecting the health, happiness, safety,
convenience and welfare of the people living and working in nearby areas;
   E.   To protect manufacturing districts from incompatible uses of land by
prohibiting the use of such space for new residential development, thereby
preserving the land for a more appropriate use in accordance with the plans for
Village improvement and development; and
   F.   To promote the most desirable use of land in accordance with a well
considered plan of land use for all of the Village, to conserve the use of
property, to promote stability of manufacturing activities and related
development, to protect the character and established development in each area
of the community, to enhance and stabilize the value of land and to protect the
tax base of the Village. (1987 Code § 5-7-1)
ARTICLE A. M-1 LIMITED MANUFACTURING DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-8A-1: Permitted Uses
10-8A-2: Building Height
10-8A-3: Building Coverage
10-8A-4: Yard Areas
10-8A-1: PERMITTED USES:
Since most uses permitted in this district will be in close proximity to
residential districts, it is hereby declared that performance standards shall
be heightened and that all manufacturing, processing or assembly of materials
and products must be carried on in a manner not injurious or offensive to the
occupants of adjacent premises by reason of the emission of odors, fumes,
gases, dust, smoke, noise, vibrations or fire hazards. Permitted uses are:
Any use permitted in a B district, but not including residences or apartments,
except such dwelling accommodations as may be needed to house a caretaker or
watchman employed on the premises and their families.
Apparel and other products manufactured from textiles.
Artificial limb manufacture.
Automobile and truck repair (major), painting, upholstering, reconditioning and
body and fender repairing when done within the confines of a structure.
Batteries, manufacture and rebuilding.
Bedspring and mattress manufacture.
Belting manufacture.
Bicycle manufacture.
Boat building and repair.
Brooms and brushes manufacture.
Building equipment yards; yards for building materials, lumber, coal, sand and
gravel yards, and yards for contracting equipment, maintenance or operating
equipment of public agencies or public utilities or materials or equipment of a
similar nature.
Bus line shops and garages.
Canning and preserving.
Canvas and canvas products manufacture.
Carpet and rug cleaning.
Cartage (local), express hauling or storage yards.
Cement block manufacture.
Ceramic products, pottery and glazed tile manufacture.
Chick hatcheries.
Cigarette and cigar manufacture.
Cleaning and dyeing establishments when employing facilities for handling more
than one thousand (1,000) pounds of dry goods per day.
Coated fabrics, except rubberized, manufacture.
Cork and cork products manufacture.
Creameries and dairies.
Drapery and bedding manufacture.
Drugs and pharmaceutical products manufacture.
Engraving.
Felt manufacture.
Fur goods, not including tanning or dyeing, manufacture.
Glass products, from previously manufactured glass.
Heating appliances and sheet metal products, including stoves and ranges,
manufacture.
Hosiery manufacture.
Ice cream and ice manufacture.
Laundries, more than one thousand (1,000) pounds' daily capacity.
Machine shops and metal products manufacture; when not equipped with heavy
(exceeding 50 tons' pressure) punch presses, drop forges, riveting and grinding
machines or any other equipment which may create noise, vibration, smoke,
odors, heat, glare or fire hazards.
Metal polishing and plating.
Motor freight terminals, probate.
Musical instruments manufacture.
Perfumes and cosmetics manufacture.
Pianos and organs manufacture.
Plastic products, but not including the processing of the raw materials,
manufacture.
Public utility electric substations and distribution centers, gas regulation
centers and underground gas holder stations.
Rubber products (small) such as washers, gloves, footwear and bathing caps, but
excluding rubber and synthetic rubber processing, manufacture.
Shoes and boots manufacture.
Sporting and athletic equipment manufacture.
Stone, marble and granite grinding and cutting.
Storage and sale of trailers, farm implements and other similar equipment on an
open lot.
Storage of flammable liquids, fats or oils in tanks, each of fifty thousand
(50,000) gallons' or less capacity, but only after the location and protective
measures have been approved by local governing officials.
Storage of household goods.
Textiles: spinning, weaving, dyeing and printing.
Tool and die shops.
Tools and hardware such as hand tools, bolts, nuts, screws, cutlery, house
hardware, locks and plumbing appliances, manufacture.
Toys and children's vehicles manufacture.
Truck terminals, including exchange and handling of freight.
Truck, tractor, trailer or bus storage or parking yard, lot or garage.
Wire brush manufacture.
Any other manufacturing establishment that can be operated in compliance with
the requirements of this section without creating objectionable noise, odor,
dust, smoke, gas, fumes or vapor, and that is a use compatible with the use and
occupancy of adjoining properties. (1987 Code § 5-7A-1; amd. 2018 Code)
10-8A-2: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building or structure shall be erected or structurally altered to exceed a
height of four (4) stories nor shall it exceed forty five feet (45') in height,
except as provided in chapter 4 of this title. (1987 Code § 5-7A-2)
10-8A-3: BUILDING COVERAGE:
The maximum ground area occupied by all buildings shall not be more than sixty
percent (60%) of the area of the lot or tract on which a building permit has
been issued. (1987 Code § 5-7A-3)
10-8A-4: YARD AREAS:
   A.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less than
twenty five feet (25') wherein there shall be no structure of any kind, open
storage of materials or equipment, or the parking of vehicles. Where the
established building line is less, the established building line shall govern
the front yard.
   B.   Side Yards: There shall be a minimum side yard of not less than fifteen
feet (15') on both sides of the building or buildings, but where the property
is adjacent to an R district, there shall be a side yard of not less than
twenty five feet (25') on the side nearest to residential lots. The parking of
private automobiles may be permitted within the side yard area, but not closer
than five feet (5') to any lot zoned for residential use.
   C.   Rear Yard: A rear yard is not required except where a lot abuts upon an
R district, in which case, there shall be a rear yard of not less than thirty
feet (30') and no storage of materials or equipment, or the parking of
automobiles, shall take place within the ten feet (10') closest to any
residential lot or lots. (1987 Code § 5-7A-4)
ARTICLE B. M-2 GENERAL MANUFACTURING DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-8B-1: Permitted Uses
10-8B-2: Conditional Permitted Uses
10-8B-3: Building Height
10-8B-4: Yard Areas
10-8B-1: PERMITTED USES:
The uses permitted in this district generally include those manufacturing and
industrial activities which cannot be operated economically without creating
some conditions which may be obnoxious or objectionable to the occupants of
adjoining properties and for that reason, must be grouped in areas where
similar industrial uses are now located or where the permitted uses will be
best located in accordance with the Comprehensive Land Use Plan for the
Village, which is designed to protect the welfare of the community. The
following uses are permitted:
Any use permitted in the M-1 District.
Aircraft, assembly and testing of fuselage and motors.
Alcoholic beverages manufacture.
Asbestos and asbestos products manufacture.
Automobiles, trucks and trailers manufacture.
Blacksmith shops.
Blast furnaces, steel works or rolling mills.
Boiler works.
Box and crate manufacture.
Brass foundries.
Brick, tile and terra cotta manufacture.
Building materials, such as prefabricated houses, composition wallboard,
partitions and panels.
Cement products.
Chalk manufacture.
Charcoal manufacture.
Chemicals, not including those which may be inflammable or explosive.
Coffin manufacture.
Copperage works.
Corrugated metal products.
Cottonseed oil manufacture.
Dyes, aniline, ink pigments and others, manufacture.
Feed milling and processing.
Gelatin, vegetable and animal.
Glass blowing and manufacture.
Grain elevators.
Graphite and graphite products manufacture.
Ink from primary raw materials including colors and pigment.
Linoleum manufacture.
Lumber, preserving, treatment, processing, sawmills and planing mills.
Machinery, heavy manufacturing and repair, including electrical, construction,
mining, and agriculture manufacture.
Meat and fish products, packing and processing of, but not including
slaughtering and glue and size manufacture.
Metal foundries and casting.
Metal stamping and extrusion or metal products.
Motor testing or internal combustion motors manufacture.
Porcelain products, such as bathroom and kitchen equipment manufacture.
Railroad equipment, such as railroad cars and locomotive manufacture.
Rubber products, including tires and tubes manufacture, and tire recapping.
Wax products, manufacture from paraffin.
Wool scouring and pulling. (1987 Code § 5-7B-1; amd. 2018 Code)
10-8B-2: CONDITIONAL PERMITTED USES:
In addition to the preceding uses, the following uses may be permitted if
located more than five hundred feet (500') from any part of an R district and
subject to the approval of the Village Board by specific ordinance, and then
only after receiving a recommendation for approval from the Planning Commission
indicating that the proposed use will not be injurious to the public welfare in
the surrounding neighborhood and not contrary to the spirit and purpose of this
title. Said report from the Planning Commission shall be made within thirty
(30) days after the use application has been referred to it by the building
inspector or Code Enforcement Officer:
Acetylene gas manufacture.
Acid manufacture.
Ammonia, bleaching powder or chlorine manufacture.
Animal slaughterhouses and stockyards.
Arsenals.
Asphalt manufacture or refining.
Celluloid manufacture or treatment.
Cement, gypsum, lime or plaster of paris manufacture.
Coke ovens.
Crematories.
Creosote treatment or manufacture.
Disinfectant, insecticide or poison manufacture.
Distillation of bones, coal or wood.
Dyestuff manufacture.
Fat rendering.
Fertilizer manufacture.
Fireworks or explosive manufacture or storage.
Gas (illuminating or heating) manufacture.
Glue, sizing or gelatin manufacture.
Gunpowder manufacture and storage.
Incinerator or reduction of garbage, dead animals, offal or refuse, except for
Municipal purposes.
Paint, oil (including linseed), shellac, turpentine, lacquers or varnish
manufacture.
Petroleum refining.
Rock crushing.
Ruffer or gutta percha manufacture or treatment.
Saltworks.
Sauerkraut, sausage or bologna manufacture.
Smelters.
Stone mills or quarries.
Sulfuric, nitric, hydrochloric or picric acid manufacture.
Tallow, grease or lard manufacture or refining.
Tar distillation or manufacture.
Tar roofing or waterproofing manufacture.
Vinegar manufacture.
Yeast plant.
And, in general, those uses which have been declared a nuisance in any court of
record or which are or may be unreasonably obnoxious or offensive in the
opinion of the building inspector or Code Enforcement Officer by reason of the
emission of odor, vapor, smoke, gas or noise. (1987 Code § 5-7B-2; amd. 2018
Code)
10-8B-3: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building or structure shall hereafter be erected or structurally altered to
exceed a height of six (6) stories or seventy five feet (75'), except as
provided in chapter 4 of this title. (1987 Code § 5-7B-3)
10-8B-4: YARD AREAS:
   A.   Front Yard: No front yard shall be required when all of the frontage on
one side of the street between intersecting streets, a public area of a
railroad right-of-way, is located in an M-2 Manufacturing District. Where the
frontage on one side of a street between two (2) intersecting streets is
located partially in some other use district, the front yard requirements of
the other use district shall apply to the M-2 District.
   B.   Side Yard: The same regulations shall apply as required in the M-
1 Manufacturing District.
   C.   Rear Yard: The same regulations shall apply as required in the M-
1 Manufacturing District. (1987 Code § 5-7B-4)
CHAPTER 9
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
10-9-1: Purpose
10-9-2: Applicability Of Regulations
10-9-3: General Parking And Loading Provisions
10-9-3-1: Parking And Loading Facilities Required
10-9-3-2: Existing Parking And Loading Spaces
10-9-3-3: Permitted Parking And Loading Spaces
10-9-3-4: Building Damage Or Destruction
10-9-3-5: Schedule Of Requirements
10-9-4: Additional Parking Regulations
10-9-4-1: Use Of Parking Facilities
10-9-4-2: Joint Parking Facilities
10-9-4-3: Off Site Parking Facilities
10-9-4-4: Nonresidential Parking In Residential Districts
10-9-4-5: Design And Maintenance
10-9-4-6: Location Of Parking Areas
10-9-4-7: Schedule Of Parking Requirements
10-9-5: Additional Loading Regulations
10-9-5-1: Design
10-9-5-2: Schedule Of Loading And Unloading Requirements
10-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to alleviate or prevent congestion of the public
streets, and so promote the safety and welfare of the public, by establishing
minimum requirements for the off street parking and loading and unloading of
motor vehicles in accordance with the use to which property is put. (1987 Code
§ 5-10-1)
10-9-2: APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS:
The off street parking and loading requirements of this title shall apply as
follows:
   A.   All buildings and structures erected or enlarged and land uses
initiated after the effective date hereof shall provide accessory off street
parking or loading facilities as required hereinafter for the use thereof;
except, that a building or structure for which a building permit has been
issued prior to the effective date hereof shall not be required to furnish
parking or loading facilities if construction is begun thereon within six (6)
months of the effective date of the building permit and diligently prosecuted
to completion;
   B.   When a building or structure erected or enlarged prior to or after the
effective date hereof shall undergo a decrease in number of dwelling units,
gross floor area, seating capacity, number of employees or other unit of
measurement specified hereinafter for required parking or loading facilities,
and further, when said decrease would result in a requirement for fewer total
parking or loading spaces through application of the provisions of this title
thereto, parking and loading facilities may be reduced accordingly; provided,
that existing parking and loading shall be so decreased only when the
facilities remaining would at least equal or exceed the parking or loading
requirements resulting from application of the provisions of this title to the
entire building or structure modified; and
   C.   When a building or structure shall undergo any increase in number of
dwelling units, gross floor area, seating capacity or other unit of measurement
specified hereinafter for required parking or loading facilities, and further,
when said increase would result in a requirement for additional total parking
or loading spaces through application of the provisions of this title thereto,
parking and loading facilities may be increased accordingly; provided, that
existing parking or loading requirements resulting from the application of the
provisions of this title to the entire building or structure as modified. (1987
Code § 5-10-2)
10-9-3: GENERAL PARKING AND LOADING PROVISIONS:
10-9-3-1: PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES REQUIRED:
An application for a building permit for a new or enlarged building, structure
or use shall include therewith a plot plan, drawn to scale and fully
dimensioned, showing any parking or loading facilities to be provided in
compliance with the requirements of this title. (1987 Code § 5-10-3-1)
10-9-3-2: EXISTING PARKING AND LOADING SPACES:
Accessory off street parking and loading spaces in existence on the effective
date hereof may not be reduced in number unless already exceeding the
requirements of this chapter for equivalent new construction, in which event,
said spaces shall not be reduced below the number required herein for such
equivalent new construction. (1987 Code § 5-10-3-2)
10-9-3-3: PERMITTED PARKING AND LOADING SPACES:
Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the establishment of off street
automobile parking or loading facilities to serve any existing use of land or
buildings, subject to full compliance with the provisions of this chapter;
except, that off street parking areas accessory to existing multiple-family
structures cannot be located off the premises containing the principal use,
unless on a lot adjacent thereto, without special authorization by the Village
Board. (1987 Code § 5-10-3-3)
10-9-3-4: BUILDING DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION:
Any building, structure or use which is in existence and is a conforming use on
the effective date hereof and which subsequently shall be damaged or destroyed
by fire, collapse, explosion or other cause, may be reconstructed, re-
established or repaired with or without off street parking or loading
facilities; except, that parking or loading facilities equivalent to and
maintained at the time of such damage or destruction shall be restored or
continued in operation. However, it shall not be necessary to restore or
maintain parking or loading facilities in excess of those required by this
title for equivalent new construction. (1987 Code § 5-10-3-4)
10-9-3-5: SCHEDULE OF REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Definition Of Floor Area: The term "floor area", as used in this
chapter in the case of office, merchandising or service types of use shall mean
the gross floor area of a building or structure used or intended to be used for
service to the public as customers, patrons, clients, patients or tenants,
including areas occupied by fixtures and equipment used for display or sale of
merchandise. "Floor area", for the purpose of this title, shall not include any
area used for:
      1.   Storage accessory to the principal use of a building;
      2.   Incidental repairs;
      3.   Processing or packaging of merchandise;
      4.   Show windows or offices incidental to the management or maintenance
of a store or building;
      5.   Utilities;
      6.   Restrooms; or
      7.   Dressing, fitting or alteration rooms.
   B.   Tables For Required Parking And Loading: Requirements governing the
number and location of off street parking and off street loading facilities in
relation to the use of property are established hereinafter. The parking and
loading requirements for any use not specified herein shall be the same as for
a similar specified use, as determined by section
10-9-4-7 of this chapter. (1987 Code § 5-10-3-5)
10-9-4: ADDITIONAL PARKING REGULATIONS:
10-9-4-1: USE OF PARKING FACILITIES:
Off street parking facilities accessory to residential uses and developed in
any residential district in accordance with the requirements of this chapter
shall be used solely for the parking of passenger automobiles owned by
occupants of the dwelling structures to which such facilities are accessory or
by guests of said occupants. Under no circumstances shall required parking
facilities accessory to residential structures be used for the storage of
commercial vehicles or for the parking of automobiles belonging to the
employees, owners, tenants, visitors or customers of business or manufacturing
establishments except as permitted in section
10-9-4-4 of this chapter. (1987 Code § 5-10-4-1)
10-9-4-2: JOINT PARKING FACILITIES:
Off street parking facilities for different buildings, structures or uses or
for mixed uses may be provided collectively in any zoning district in which
separate parking facilities for each constituent use would be permitted;
provided, that the total number of spaces so located together shall not be less
than the sum of the separate requirements for each use. (1987 Code § 5-10-4-2)
10-9-4-3: OFF SITE PARKING FACILITIES:
   A.   Control: When required accessory off street facilities are provided
elsewhere than on the lot on which the principal use served is located, they
shall be in the same possession, either by deed or long term lease, as the
property occupied by such principal use, and the owner shall be bound by
covenants filed of record in the Office of the Recorder of Deeds or the
Registrar of Titles of Kankakee County requiring the owner and his or her heirs
and assigns to maintain the required number of parking spaces during the
existence of said principal use.
   B.   Permitted Districts: Accessory parking facilities provided elsewhere
than on the same zoning lot with the principal use served in accordance with
section
10-9-4-7 of this chapter may be located in any zoning district except as
follows:
      1.   No parking facilities accessory to a multiple-family use shall be
located in an R-1 or R-2 District;
      2.   No parking facilities accessory to a business or manufacturing use
shall be located in a residential district, except when authorized by the
Village Board as prescribed hereinafter; and
      3.   No parking facilities accessory to a manufacturing use shall be
permitted in a B-1 District. (1987 Code § 5-10-4-3)
10-9-4-4: NONRESIDENTIAL PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
Accessory off street parking facilities serving nonresidential uses of property
may be permitted in an R-3 District when authorized by the Village Board,
subject to all other relevant requirements of this chapter.
   A.   The parking lot shall be accessory to, and for use in connection with,
one or more nonresidential establishments located in adjoining districts, or in
connection with one or more existing professional or institutional office
buildings or institutions. The parking lot shall be used solely for the parking
of passenger automobiles.
   B.   No commercial repair work or service of any kind shall be conducted on
the parking lot.
   C.   No sign of any kind, other than signs designating entrances, exits and
conditions of use, shall be maintained on said parking lot.
   D.   Each entrance to and exit from said parking lot shall be at least
twenty feet (20') from any adjacent property located in any residential
district, except where ingress and egress to the parking lot is provided from a
public alley or public way separating the residential areas from the proposed
parking lot.
   E.   In addition to the foregoing requirements, such parking lots shall
conform to any further requirements as may be prescribed by the Village Board
for the protection of properties adjacent to any in the vicinity of the
proposed parking lot. (1987 Code § 5-10-4-4)
10-9-4-5: DESIGN AND MAINTENANCE:
   A.   Parking Space, Description: A required off street parking space shall
be an area of not less than one hundred sixty two (162) square feet nor less
than eight and one-half feet (81/2') wide by nineteen feet (19') long,
exclusive of access drives or aisles, ramps, columns of office and work areas,
accessible from streets or alleys or parking of passenger automobiles and
commercial vehicles under one and one-half (11/2) tons' capacity where
permitted under this title. Aisles between vehicular parking spaces shall not
be less than twelve feet (12') in width when serving automobiles parking at a
forty five degree (45°) angle in one direction, nor less than twenty feet (20')
in width when serving automobiles parking perpendicular to the aisles and
accommodating two-way traffic.
   B.   Measurement Of Space: When the determination of the number of required
off street parking spaces results in a requirement of a fractional space, any
fraction up to and including one-half (1/2) shall be disregarded and fractions
over one-half (1/2) shall be interpreted as one parking space.
   C.   Open And Enclosed Spaces: Parking areas may be open or enclosed;
except, that when parking facilities accessory to a multiple dwelling are
located in an R-1, B-1 or B-2 District elsewhere than on the same zoning lot
with the principal use served, such parking facilities shall be open to the
sky.
   D.   Access: Parking facilities shall be designed with appropriate means of
vehicular access to a street or alley in such a manner as will least interfere
with the movement of traffic. No driveway or curb cut in any district shall
exceed twenty five feet (25') in width.
   E.   Signs: No signs shall be displayed in any parking area within any
residential district, except such as may be necessary for the orderly use of
the parking facilities.
   F.   Required Setbacks: No parking space nor portion thereof established on
the same zoning lot with a building shall be located within a required front
yard. No parking spaces nor portion thereof established on a zoning lot without
a building shall be located closer to any street line than the established
building line on adjacent properties nor closer than the front yard setback
required for the district in which the parking lot is located. Further, any
wall, fence or hedge developed around any parking lot, area or facilities shall
be subject to the front yard setback requirements of this title in the same
manner as a building or structure.
   G.   Surfacing: All open off street parking areas, except those accessory to
single-family dwellings, shall be improved with a compacted macadam base, not
less than four inches (4") thick, surfaced with asphalt concrete or constructed
to some comparable specification. (1987 Code § 5-10-4-5)
   H.   Screening And Landscaping: All open off street parking areas for six
(6) or more cars shall be effectively screened by a wall, a solid fence or a
densely planted compact hedge along any side with which it is adjoined or is
directly across a street or alley from a property in a residential district or
an institution's property. Such wall, fence or hedge shall be at least four
feet (4'), but not more than six feet (6') in height, and shall be maintained
in good condition. (1987 Code § 5-10-4-5; amd. 2018 Code)
   I.   Lighting: Any lighting used to illuminate an off street parking area
shall be so arranged as to reflect the light away from adjoining properties.
   J.   Special Use Public Parking Areas: Any automobile parking area developed
for transient trade and not accessory to specific principal uses or groups of
uses for which parking is required by this title, shall be treated as a special
use as defined in section
10-3B-2 of this title and as allowed in accordance with the provisions of
chapter 3, article B of this title by the Village Board. (1987 Code § 5-10-4-5)
10-9-4-6: LOCATION OF PARKING AREAS:
Off street automobile parking facilities shall be located as hereinafter
specified. Where a distance is specified, such a distance shall be walking
distance measured from the nearest point of the parking area to the nearest
entrance of the building that said parking area is required to serve:
 
                                       On the same lot or parcel of land as the
                                       building they are required to serve or
                                       on a separate lot or parcel of land not
Apartment houses containing 4 or more  more than 300 feet from the nearest
dwelling units                         entrance to the principal building being
                                       served, provided the lot or parcel of
                                       land selected for parking facilities is
                                       located in an apartment district or a
                                       less restricted district
One- and two-family dwellings          On the same lot with the building they
                                       are required to serve
Rooming houses, lodging houses, clubs, On the same lot or parcel of land as the
hospitals, homes for the aged,         principal building or buildings being
sanitariums, orphanages, convalescent  served, or upon properties contiguous to
homes, dormitories, sorority and       the zoning lot upon which is located the
fraternity houses, and for other       building or buildings they are intended
similar uses                           to serve
                                       On the same lot or parcel of land as the
                                       building they are required to serve. For
Three- and four-family dwellings not   the purpose of this requirement, a group
over 2 stories in height               of such uses constructed and maintained
                                       under single ownership or management
                                       shall be assumed to be on a single lot
                                       or parcel of land
                                       On the same lot or parcel of land as the
                                       principal building being served, or on a
                                       separate lot or parcel of land not over
                                       1,000 feet from the entrance of the
                                       principal building, measured from the
Uses other than those specified above  nearest point of the parking area;
                                       provided the separate lot or parcel of
                                       land intended for the parking facilities
                                       is located in the same district as the
                                       principal permitted use or in a less
                                       restricted district
 
(1987 Code § 5-10-4-6)
10-9-4-7: SCHEDULE OF PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
                                         Such parking spaces as the Village
Airports, railroad passenger stations,   Board, subject to the recommendations
bus depots or other passenger terminal   of the Planning Commission, shall deem
facilities (special uses)                to be adequate for employees,
                                         passengers, spectators, visitors and
                                         others
Banks, business or professional offices, 1 parking space for each 400 square
or public administration buildings       feet of floor area
                                         2 parking spaces for each alley, plus
                                         additional spaces as may be determined
Bowling alleys                           by the building inspector or Code
                                         Enforcement Officer for affiliated
                                         uses such as bars, restaurants and the
                                         like
Church, Sunday school, high school,      1 parking space for each 12 seats
college and university auditoriums       provided in said buildings or
                                         structures
Convention halls, dance halls, skating   1 parking space for each 100 square
rinks, assembly halls, exhibition halls  feet of floor area used for the
or other places of assembly              assembly
Establishments handling the sale and
consumption on the premises of alcoholic 1 parking space for each 300 square
beverages, food or refreshments, having  feet of floor area over 1,500 square
more than 1,500 square feet of floor     feet
area under 1 roof devoted to such use or
uses
Furniture and appliance stores, motor
vehicle sales, wholesale stores,
household equipment or furniture repair  1 parking space for each 600 square
shops, or machinery sales, having more   feet of floor area over and above
than 2,000 square feet of floor area     2,000 square feet
under 1 roof (individual stores or
groups of stores in 1 building)
                                         1 parking space for each 3 hospital
                                         beds, plus 1 parking space for each
Hospitals                                1,500 square feet of gross floor area
                                         in the resident's quarters, plus 1
                                         additional space for each staff or
                                         visiting doctor
                                         1 parking space for each 6 guests or
                                         sleeping rooms and suites, plus 1
                                         parking space for each 300 square feet
Hotels and clubs                         of floor area devoted to supplementary
                                         parking for generative activities such
                                         as bars, ballrooms, dining rooms,
                                         nightclub facilities and the like
                                         1 parking space for each 4 guests,
Lodging, rooming and boarding houses     plus 1 additional space for the owner
                                         or manager if a resident of the
                                         premises
Manufacturing and industrial uses;
research and testing laboratories;       1 parking space for each 4 employees,
laundry and dry cleaning plants;         based upon the maximum number of
printing, binding, publishing and        persons to be employed at any 1 work
issuing of newspapers, periodicals,      period during the day or night, plus
books and other reading matter;          such additional parking facilities as
telephone exchanges; warehouses and      shall be required for all vehicles
storage buildings; engraving shops;      used in the conduct of the enterprise
assembly of materials and products and
other similar uses
Medical or dental clinics                3 parking spaces per doctor engaged at
                                         the clinic
                                         The sum of the requirements for the
                                         various individual uses, computed
                                         separately in accordance with this
Mixed uses                               section. Parking facilities for 1 use
                                         shall not be considered as providing
                                         the required parking facilities for
                                         any other use in the same building or
                                         on the same lot
                                         Parking spaces for each room used as a
                                         chapel or parlor, plus 1 space for
Mortuaries or funeral parlors            each funeral vehicle maintained on the
                                         premises, plus 1 space for each family
                                         residing on the premises
One- and two-family dwellings            1 parking space for each family
                                         dwelling unit
Private clubs or lodges (without         Parking spaces equal in number to 25
sleeping rooms)                          percent of the total membership
Retail stores and service shops          1 parking space for each 300 square
(individual or in groups) under 1 roof,  feet of retail floor area over and
having a total floor area of 2,000       above 2,000 square feet
square feet devoted to retail sales
Sanitariums, convalescent homes, nursing 1 space for each 4 patient beds, plus
homes or homes for the aged              1 additional space for each staff or
                                         visiting doctor
Stadia, sports arena, auditorium and
gymnasium (other than incidental to a    1 parking space for each 8 seats
school)
Theaters:                                 
                                         1 parking space for each 10 seats up
 Indoor                                 to 500, plus 1 parking space for each
                                         5 seats above 500
 Outdoor                                Reservoir space equal to 10 percent of
                                         the capacity
Three- or more family dwellings          1 parking space for each dwelling unit
                                         Parking space for each guest or
Tourist homes, cabins or motels          sleeping room or suite, plus 1
                                         additional space for the owner or
                                         manager on the premises
 
(1987 Code § 5-10-4-7; amd. 2018 Code)
10-9-5: ADDITIONAL LOADING REGULATIONS:
10-9-5-1: DESIGN:
   A.   Loading Berth Description: An off street loading berth shall be a hard
surfaced area of land, open or enclosed, other than a street or a public way,
used principally for the standing, loading or unloading of motor trucks,
tractors and trailers so as to avoid undue interference with the public use of
streets and alleys. A required loading space shall not be less than ten feet in
width, forty five feet in length and fourteen feet in height (10' x 45' x 14'),
exclusive of access aisles and maneuvering space, except as otherwise
specifically dimensioned hereinafter.
   B.   Location Of Berth: No permitted or required loading berth shall be
closer than fifty feet (50') to any property in a residential district unless
completely enclosed by building walls or a uniformly painted solid fence or
wall, or any combination thereof not less than six feet (6') in height. No
permitted or required loading berth shall be located within twenty five feet
(25') of the nearest point of intersection of any two (2) streets. Loading
berths open to the sky may be located in any required yards.
   C.   Measurement Of Berth: When determination of the number of required off
street loading berths results in a requirement of a fractional berth, any
fraction up to and including one-half (1/2) shall be disregarded, and fractions
over one-half (1/2) shall be interpreted as one loading berth.
   D.   Surfacing: All open off street loading berths shall be improved with a
compacted macadam base, not less than seven inches (7") thick, surfaced with
not less than two inches (2") of asphaltic concrete or some comparable
construction material. (1987 Code § 5-10-5-1)
10-9-5-2: SCHEDULE OF LOADING AND UNLOADING REQUIREMENTS:
In all districts where property uses include the loading and unloading of
materials or merchandise from vehicles, off street loading and unloading
facilities shall be provided in accordance with the following requirements:
 
Banks, business or professional offices
or public administration buildings      1 space
containing 20,000 square feet or more
of gross floor space
Building area, exclusive of basement    1 space, plus 1 additional such space
area, and less than 40,000 square feet  for each additional 60,000 square feet
of gross floor area                     of gross floor area in excess of 40,000
                                        square feet
Buildings containing bowling alleys,
taverns, restaurants or any retail      1 space
shops and having 10,000 square feet or
more of gross floor area
Buildings containing furniture and
appliance stores, motor vehicle sales,
wholesale stores, household equipment   1 space
or machinery sales and having 8,000 to
25,000 square feet of gross floor area
Hospitals or sanitariums containing     1 space, plus 1 additional such space
40,000 to 100,000 square feet of floor  for each additional 100,000 square feet
area                                    of gross floor area or fraction thereof
                                        in excess of 100,000 square feet
 
(1987 Code § 5-10-5-2)
CHAPTER 10
SIGNS
SECTION:
10-10-1: Application Of Provisions
10-10-2: Regulations For All Districts
10-10-3: Signs In Residential Districts
10-10-4: Signs In Business Districts
10-10-5: Signs In Manufacturing Districts
10-10-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
Any publicly displayed sign, symbol or notice on a premises to advertise the
business there transacted, or name of person conducting said business on the
premises or directing to some other locale, shall be regulated as herein
provided. (1987 Code § 5-11-1)
10-10-2: REGULATIONS FOR ALL DISTRICTS:
The following conditions shall be observed by all of the use districts:
   A.   No signs shall be placed in a required front yard, except for the
purpose of selling or renting the premises. Such signs shall not exceed twenty
(20) square feet.
   B.   For the purpose of selling or renting any lot or group of lots, or for
any existing or proposed building or groups of buildings (structures or groups
of structures), a billboard may be erected on approval of location, size and
necessity by the Zoning Board of Appeals for a period of six (6) months; after
which time, it may be renewed for a six (6) month period upon a showing of
necessity by the petitioner. (1987 Code § 5-11-2)
10-10-3: SIGNS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
   A.   For each dwelling unit: One unlighted nameplate not exceeding one
square foot in area, indicating the name of the occupant.
   B.   For a structure other than a dwelling unit: One identification sign not
exceeding ten (10) square feet, except a church bulletin board which shall not
exceed twenty four (24) square feet.
   C.   For purpose of orientation: Directional signs when established by the
Village. (1987 Code § 5-11-3)
10-10-4: SIGNS IN BUSINESS DISTRICTS:
   A.   In a B district, the following signs shall be permitted:
      1.   Signs relating only to the name and use of buildings or premises
upon which they are placed. Outdoor billboards or signs advertising products or
matters not related to the occupancy of the premises shall not be permitted.
      2.   Signs attached to a building or buildings. Said signs shall be
erected parallel to the vertical wall surfaces and shall not project more than
one foot (1') from the wall upon which it is attached, nor project beyond the
end or top of the wall to which it is attached, nor may have an area of more
than one hundred (100) square feet. This may include signs attached to parapet
walls or other wall surfaces made a part of the main structure and extending
above the roofline, but not including signs erected on a separate super
structure attached to the roof of the building or to any other part of the
building above the roofline.
      3.   Signs attached to or hung from a marquee or canopy. Said signs shall
be completely within the borderline of the outer edge of the marquee or canopy
and shall, in no instance, be lower than eight feet (8') above the ground or
surface over which the marquee or canopy is constructed.
      4.   Signs, clocks or other advertising devices erected upon standard or
separate supports. Said signs shall be placed so as to be entirely within the
property lines of the premises upon which they are located, and no part of the
sign or standard support shall have a total height greater than twenty feet
(20') above the level of the street level if such ground level is above the
street level, nor shall the surface of any such sign exceed one hundred (100)
square feet in area.
      5.   Traffic or directional signs designating entrances, exits and
conditions of use of parking facilities accessory to the main use of the
premises may be maintained provided they are located within the property lines
of the subject.
   B.   No sign shall be permitted on any wall, fence or standard facing the
side of any adjoining lot located in any residential district.
   C.   No illuminated sign shall be of the flashing or intermittent type.
(1987 Code § 5-11-4)
10-10-5: SIGNS IN MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS:
In an M district, the following signs shall be permitted:
   A.   Signs identifying the occupant of a building or buildings.
   B.   Billboards, when located not less than one hundred feet (100') from any
adjoining lot in a residential district.
   C.   Directional signs permitted in R districts. (1987 Code § 5-11-5)
CHAPTER 11
NONCONFORMITIES
SECTION:
10-11-1: Existing Nonconforming Buildings Or Uses
10-11-2: Discontinuance Of Use
10-11-3: Change Of Use
10-11-4: Termination And Removal Of Nonconforming Uses
10-11-5: Building Repairs And Alterations
10-11-6: Building Damage And Destruction
10-11-7: Additions And Enlargements To Buildings
10-11-8: Use District Changes
10-11-9: Exceptions To Regulations
10-11-1: EXISTING NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS OR USES:
   A.   Existing Uses:
      1.   Any lawfully established use of a building or land established prior
to the effective date hereof or of amendments hereto, that does not conform to
the use regulations for the district in which it is located, shall be deemed to
be a legal nonconforming use and may be continued, except as otherwise provided
herein.
      2.   Nothing in this title shall prevent the continuance of the present
occupancy or lawful uses of any existing building or zoning lot, except as may
be necessary for the safety of life and property and except as provided in
chapter 4 of this title.
   B.   Existing Buildings: Any legal nonconforming building or structure may
be continued in use provided there is no physical change other than necessary
maintenance and repair, except as otherwise permitted herein.
   C.   New Construction With Previously Granted Permit: Any building for which
a permit has been lawfully granted prior to the effective date hereof or of
amendments hereto, may be completed in accordance with the approved plans,
provided construction is started within six (6) months after the date of the
permit and diligently prosecuted to completion. Such building shall thereafter
be deemed a lawfully established building. (1987 Code § 5-9-1)
10-11-2: DISCONTINUANCE OF USE:
   A.   Change To Conforming Use: Whenever any part of a building, structure or
land occupied by a nonconforming use is changed to or replaced by a use
conforming to the provisions of this title, such premises shall not thereafter
be used or occupied by any nonconforming use, even though the building may be
originally designed and constructed for the prior nonconforming use.
   B.   Discontinuance Of Use Involving A Building: Whenever a nonconforming
use of a building or structure or part thereof has been discontinued for a
period of eighteen (18) consecutive months, or for a continuous period of
thirty (30) months if the building was originally designed and constructed for
a nonresidential use, or whenever there is evident a clear intent on the part
of the owner to abandon a nonconforming use, such use shall not, after being
discontinued or abandoned, be re- established, and the use of the premises
thereafter shall be in conformity with the regulations of the district in which
it is located.
   C.   Discontinuance Of Use Not Involving A Building: Where no enclosed
building is involved, discontinuance of a nonconforming use for a period of one
year shall constitute abandonment. (1987 Code § 5-9-2)
10-11-3: CHANGE OF USE:
   A.   A nonconforming use of a building or structure, or part thereof, may be
changed to a use of the same or of a more restricted character, but may not
thereafter be changed to any less restricted use.
   B.   Any part of a building, structure or land occupied by a nonconforming
use, which is changed to or replaced by a use conforming to the provisions of
this title, shall not thereafter be used or occupied by a nonconforming use.
(1987 Code § 5-9-3)
10-11-4: TERMINATION AND REMOVAL OF NONCONFORMING USES:
The period of time during which the following nonconforming uses of buildings,
structures or land may continue or remain, shall be limited to two (2) years
from the effective date hereof or of any amendment hereto, which causes the use
to be nonconforming. Every such nonconforming use shall be completely removed
from the premises at the expiration of the two (2) year period.
   A.   Any nonconforming building or structure having an assessed valuation
not in excess of five hundred dollars ($500.00) on the effective date hereof.
   B.   All nonconforming billboards and outdoor advertising structures not
attached to a building lawfully existing upon the effective date hereof.
   C.   1. Any nonconforming use of land where no enclosed building is
involved, or where the only buildings employed are accessory or incidental to
such use, or where such use is maintained in connection with a conforming
building other than automobile wrecking yards and junkyards. This subsection
shall not include public or private parking lots established prior to the
effective date hereof.
      2.   No junkyard or automobile wrecking yard not within an M-2 General
Manufacturing District shall be operated or maintained for more than thirty six
(36) months after a zoning change to a use district which such use is not
permitted; except, that in an M-1 Limited Manufacturing District, the Zoning
Board of Appeals may permit, for a specified time, the continued use of an area
containing an automobile wrecking yard or junkyard; provided, that a six foot
(6') high solid wall or substantially higher fence be constructed around such
area. (1987 Code § 5-9-4)
10-11-5: BUILDING REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS:
Normal maintenance of a building or other structure containing a nonconforming
use is permitted, including necessary nonstructural repairs and incidental
alterations which do not extend or intensify the nonconforming use. No
structural alterations shall be made in a building or other structure
containing a nonconforming use, except in the following situations:
   A.   When the alteration is required by law;
   B.   When the alteration will actually result in elimination of the
nonconforming use; and
   C.   When a building containing residential nonconforming uses may be
altered in any way to improve liveability, provided no structural alteration
shall be made which would increase the number of dwelling units or the bulk of
the building. (1987 Code § 5-9-5)
10-11-6: BUILDING DAMAGE AND DESTRUCTION:
If a building or other structure containing a nonconforming use is damaged or
destroyed by any means to the extent of fifty percent (50%) or more of its
replacement value at that time, the building or other structure may be rebuilt
or used thereafter only for a conforming use and in compliance with the
provisions of the district in which it is located. In the event the damage or
destruction is less than fifty percent (50%) of its replacement value, based
upon prevailing costs, the extent of the damage shall be established by
estimates made by the building inspector or Code Enforcement Officer. Any
appeals from the decision of the building inspector or Code Enforcement Officer
may be taken by the owner or agent as outlined in subsection 10-3A-5C of this
title. The building may then be restored to its original condition, and the
occupancy or use of such building may be continued which existed at the time of
such partial destruction. In either event, restoration or repair of the
building or other structure may be started within a period of one year and
diligently prosecuted to completion. (1987 Code § 5-9-6; amd. 2018 Code)
10-11-7: ADDITIONS AND ENLARGEMENTS TO BUILDINGS:
   A.   A nonconforming building may be enlarged or extended only if the entire
building is thereafter devoted to a conforming use and is made to conform to
all the regulations of the district in which it is located.
   B.   No building partially occupied by a nonconforming use shall be altered
in such a way as to permit the enlargement or expansion of the space occupied
by such nonconforming use.
   C.   No nonconforming building in any residential district shall be so
altered as to increase the number of dwelling units therein.
   D.   No nonconforming use may be enlarged or extended in such a way as to
occupy any required usable open space or any land beyond the boundaries of the
zoning lot as it existed at the effective date hereof, or to displace any
conforming use in the same building or on the same parcel. (1987 Code § 5-9-7)
10-11-8: USE DISTRICT CHANGES:
Whenever the boundaries of a use district shall be changed so as to transfer an
area from one use district to another use district of a different
classification, the foregoing provisions shall also apply to any nonconforming
uses existing therein. (1987 Code § 5-9-8)
10-11-9: EXCEPTIONS TO REGULATIONS:
Wherever a lawfully existing building or structure otherwise conforms to the
use regulations of this title, but is nonconforming only in the particular
manner hereinafter specified, the building and use thereof shall be exempt from
the requirements of sections
10-11-4 and
10-11-5 of this chapter:
   A.   In any R district where a dwelling is nonconforming only as to the
number of dwelling units it contains, provided no such building shall be
altered in any way so as to increase the number of dwelling units therein;
   B.   In any R-3 District where a use permitted in the B-1 District occupied
ground floor space within a multiple-family dwelling located on a corner lot;
and
   C.   In any B or M district where the use is less distant from an R district
than that specified in the regulations for the district in which it is located.
(1987 Code § 5-9-9)
